03.14.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) was today awarded the 2018 Legislative Action Award by the Bipartisan Policy Center (BPC). This award recognizes Rep. Katko’s commitment to working across the aisle to build consensus, elevate the tenor of debate in Washington, practice civility, and advance legislation and pressing issues. The Bipartisan Policy Center each year recognizes six lawmakers who have served in Congress for less than six years and who, during that time, have provided a positive tenor to the legislative process and improved the functioning of Congress through their example. The Award Selection Committee is comprised of BPC’s senior leadership and board members, co-chairs of BPC’s Commission on Political Reform, and representatives from businesses and nonprofits. “We are impressed by Representative Katko’s independence and effectiveness serving the residents of Central New York,” said BPC President Jason Grument. “The Bipartisan Policy Center established the Legislative Action Award to celebrate lawmakers who work with their colleagues to get things done. Whether battling opioid addiction, combating human trafficking, modernizing the Brownfields Program or introducing legislation to repair our nation’s aging infrastructure, Representative Katko has demonstrated unique ability to bring people together and create real solutions.” “I am incredibly honored and humbled to be recognized for my commitment to bipartisanship,” said Rep. John Katko. “During a time of hyper-partisanship and gridlock in Washington, I’ve looked for opportunities to work across the aisle and to bring together Democrats and Republicans to get things done for the good of Central New York and this country. That work continues going forward, and I’m eager to get to work on areas where I think we can make real progress this Congress – like addressing the opioid epidemic, bolstering infrastructure, and strengthening cybersecurity to keep this country safe.” About the Bipartisan Policy Center: The Bipartisan Policy Center is a non-profit organization that combines the best ideas from both parties to promote health, security, and opportunity for all Americans. BPC drives principled and politically viable policy solutions through the power of rigorous analysis, painstaking negotiation, and aggressive advocacy. As a Washington, D.C.-based think tank that actively promotes bipartisanship, BPC works to address the key challenges facing the nation. Our policy solutions are the product of informed deliberations by former elected and appointed officials, business and labor leaders, and academics and advocates who represent both ends of the political spectrum. We are currently focused on health, energy, national security, the economy, financial regulatory reform, housing, immigration, infrastructure, and governance.
03.12.2019	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced the details of the 2019 Artistic Discovery Congressional Art Competition. All high school students living in the 24th Congressional District of New York are eligible to submit an entry. The Congressional Art Competition is an annual event hosted by the House of Representatives. It allows high school students from across the country to showcase their artistic talents, with the winning pieces from each Congressional District displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one full year. “I am proud to once again invite high school students from around Central New York to participate in the Congressional Art Competition,” said Rep. Katko. “This is an excellent opportunity for our students to display their creative abilities, and my office receives many impressive pieces each year. I am excited for this year’s submissions and encourage participation from all interested students.” Guidelines for submissions are below: Artwork may be up to 26 inches wide by 26 inches tall by four inches thick, must be two dimensional, be original in concept, design, and execution, must not weigh more than 15 pounds, and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. If you are a student or a teacher, and would like to learn more about the rules about what kind art work is accepted, click here. Accepted artwork includes paintings (including oil, acrylics and watercolor), drawings (including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers), collage (must be two dimensional), prints (including lithographs, silkscreen, and block prints), mixed media, computer generated art, and photography. Artwork must be submitted with a completed copy of the competition release form to one of Rep. Katko’s district offices by April 18, 2019. Additional information regarding the Artistic Discovery Congressional Art Competition can be found here.
03.08.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the below statement regarding HR 1: “I strongly believe we need campaign finance reform, and acted on the first day of this Congress to introduce a bipartisan constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United and impose campaign contribution limits. But the bill before the House today represents a significant constitutional overreach that would attempt to establish a publicly funded electoral system, which I staunchly oppose. While I could not vote in support of this measure today, it incorporates legislation I worked on to improve election security and to protect our elections from foreign interference. I am heartened to see Congress take these issues seriously, and will continue to advocate for these bipartisan reforms.”
03.07.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) and U.S. Rep. Bill Keating (MA-9) this week introduced the bipartisan Marriage Access for People with Special Abilities Act, legislation that protects the federal benefits of individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities (ID/DD) who wish to legally marry. People with ID/DD rely upon critical Social Security Insurance (SSI) to meet their everyday needs. However, when two individuals who rely on these benefits marry, these SSI benefits are placed in jeopardy when those with ID/DD marry because couples must jointly report incomes. This bill clarifies that SSI benefits for an individual with ID/DD will not be affected by marital status. When determining these benefits for an individual with ID/DD, only their income and resources will be reviewed. Their spouse’s income and assets will not be included. Further, it clarifies that individuals with ID/DD will have access to Medicaid benefits if they qualify for SSI benefits, regardless of income or assets. “People with intellectual or developmental disabilities should not have to choose between marriage and their disability benefits,” said Rep. John Katko. “This bipartisan legislation protects the rights of individuals with disabilities and enables couples to pursue happiness without obstruction.” “It’s my privilege to lead this effort with Congressman Katko,” said Congressman Bill Keating. “Ensuring people with intellectual or developmental disabilities have every chance to choose their path in life, especially when it comes to forming their own families, is a fundamental right. The IDD community leverages their supplemental incomes to independently further their quality of life, and this legislation ensures they have full access to their benefits if their paths include marriage.” “Marriage is a basic civil right,” National Down Syndrome Society Senior Vice President Kandi Pickard said. “Individuals with disabilities deserve the freedom to secure the legal protections of marriage to build loving families and pursue the opportunities that come with the institution of marriage. We applaud Reps. Katko and Keating for championing this effort to secure equal rights for individuals with disabilities and urge all Members of Congress to support their legislation.”
03.05.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — With Lake Ontario water levels already above average, U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and Anthony Brindisi (NY-22) today sent a bipartisan letter to Lana Pollack, Chair of the U.S. Section, International Joint Commission (IJC), requesting immediate action to mitigate flood risks for coastal communities. The lawmakers pointed to the record flooding that occurred along shorelines across Lake Ontario in 2017, causing serious damage to local businesses, residences and infrastructure. “In addition to threatening the lives of families throughout the region, continued flooding would only cause further destruction and cripple communities that are already struggling to respond to existing damage,” wrote Katko and Brindisi. Katko and Brindisi requested the IJC and the International Lake Ontario – St. Lawrence River Board outline the intended course of action and report any factors preventing the IJC from responding to rising water levels. The full text of the letter is below. March 4, 2019 The Honorable Lana PollackU.S. Section Chair and CommissionerInternational Joint Commission – U.S Section1717 H Street NW, Suite 801Washington, DC 20006 Dear IJC Chair Pollack, We write with serious concerns regarding rising water levels on Lake Ontario and request an immediate response outlining the course of action that will be pursued by the International Joint Commission (IJC) and the International Lake Ontario – St. Lawrence River Board to mitigate flood risks to coastal communities. As you know, shorelines across Lake Ontario were severely impacted by record flooding in 2017. The resulting devastation caused to local businesses, residences and infrastructure continue to be the subject of significant recovery efforts in coastal communities. In addition to threatening the lives of families throughout the region, continued flooding would only cause further destruction and cripple communities that are already struggling to respond to existing damage. According to measurements released by the International Lake Ontario – St. Lawrence River Board, lake levels currently stand 15 inches above the annual average for this time of year. Forecasting from the Army Corps of Engineers projects that water levels will remain at this level, significantly raising the potential for severe flooding in the event of high precipitation or other exacerbating factors. Such an outcome would be unacceptable to the ecological, economic and general wellbeing of our constituents. With these significant concerns in mind, we are requesting immediate action from the IJC and the International Lake Ontario – St. Lawrence River Board to mitigate flood risks for coastal communities. In responding to this serious situation, please outline the intended course of action for outflows from the Moses-Saunders Dam, as well as any additional factors preventing the IJC from responding to rising water levels on Lake Ontario. Thank you in advance for your time and attention to this matter. Sincerely, John Katko (NY-24)Anthony Brindisi (NY-22)
03.04.2019	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) has been named one of the top ten most effective lawmakers of the 115th House of Representatives by the Center for Effective Lawmaking. He was named the fourth most effective Republican member for the 115th Congress. “I’ve always been committed to working across the aisle to achieve results for Central New York. In a time of hyper-partisanship in Washington, I’m proud to be recognized by the Center for Effective Lawmaking for my efforts to move bipartisan reforms through the House,” said Rep. Katko. “I remain committed to advancing the priorities of our community in Congress, and am encouraged by some of the bipartisan measures we’ve already begun work on this Congress – including bolstering our nation’s infrastructure, improving cyber protections, and providing proper funding to address the heroin and opioid epidemic.” The Center for Effective Lawmaking seeks to advance the generation, communication, and use of new knowledge about the effectiveness of individual lawmakers and legislative institutions in Congress. The organization envisions a Congress comprised of effective lawmakers, strong institutional capacity, and the incentive structure needed to address America’s greatest public policy challenges. Effectiveness scoring is based on the combination of fifteen metrics regarding the bills that members of Congress sponsor, how far they move through the lawmaking process, and how important their policy proposals are.
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Following news yesterday that Amazon has abandoned its plans to open its HQ2 headquarters in New York City, U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and Anthony Brindisi (NY-22) today sent a bipartisan letter to Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos urging the company to maintain its investment in New York State. The letter, which echoes the message sent earlier this week by New York State lawmakers, urges Amazon’s CEO to consider Upstate New York for its HQ2 headquarters. Katko and Brindisi tout the benefits Upstate New York has to offer to the company – including a dynamic workforce, affordable housing, and an abundance of higher education centers and technical training institutions – and invite Mr. Bezos to visit the reg The text of the letter is below.February 15, 2019 ​Jeffrey BezosChairman, President & CEO, Amazon.com, Inc.1200 12th Ave South, Suite 1200Seattle, WA 98144Dear Mr. Bezos, We write today to echo the sentiments of our colleagues on the state level who earlier this week expressed the desire for Amazon to consider locating its headquarters, HQ2, in Upstate New York. Given yesterday’s news that Amazon has definitively canceled plans to expand its headquarters in New York City, we renew this push and ask that you visit Upstate New York to learn more about our region and the benefits it has to offer for your company.Upstate New York is ripe for investment. Our region is a hub for education, home to several colleges and universities, as well as manufacturing and technical training facilities. It is centrally located within the state, and located close to several major international airports. Our workforce is eager for new opportunities, and home ownership in Upstate New York is affordable for those relocating to our region.While it is unfortunate that political battles downstate have blocked this investment in New York City, we agree with the Governor and our colleagues representing Upstate communities – New York should still be home to Amazon and we welcome its growing operations. Upstate New York is ready and willing to be open for business.We are grateful for your consideration of this request.Rep. John Katko (NY-24)Rep. Anthony Brindisi (NY-22)
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) and U.S. Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27) reintroduced the Help Extract Animals from Red Tape (HEART) Act, bipartisan legislation that protects the animal victims of fighting rings and transfers the cost of care from taxpayers to those responsible for the animals’ harm. Animals seized from fighting rings often spend a considerable length of time in shelters while awaiting a disposition. Additionally, taxpayers are left to foot the bill for the victims' medical and shelter costs. This legislation expedites the disposition process for animals allowing them to be quickly placed in a home, as well as holds the perpetrators responsible for the cost of the victims’ recovery. “Animals saved from fighting rings deserve to be matched with loving, caring homes. Furthermore, we must hold criminals legally and financially responsible for the abuse of these animals,” said Rep. Katko. “The HEART Act accomplishes both initiatives. Under this legislation, the disposition process is improved, animals spend less time in shelters, and individuals responsible for harming animals are required to pay the costs of the animals’ care. Animal abuse and neglect has no place in our society. I am proud to once again sponsor this legislation and will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to address this issue.” “Dog fighting is a particularly heinous crime that must be stamped out, but, unfortunately, when the animals are seized, the cost and care often falls on local shelters,” said Rep. Chu. “Court proceedings can take over a year, which means the cost of doing the right thing can total millions of dollars. Additionally, shelters are unable to rehabilitate these animals until the proceedings have completed, which leaves animals stressed. It’s unjust that taxpayers and local shelters are picking up the tab for the care of these animals. This bill would help remedy that by allowing courts to consider animal welfare when determining trial expediency and requiring responsible parties to reimburse taxpayers and shelters for the cost of caring for animals. I am so pleased to be able work bipartisanly to help keep animals safe and place responsibility where it belongs. And today’s introduction of the HEART Act brings us one crucial step closer.” “Dogfighting is a brutal ‘blood-sport’ in which innocent animals are forced to train, fight and suffer for the entertainment and profit of spectators,” said Richard Patch, vice president, federal affairs of ASPCA Government Relations. “These animals have suffered enough at the hands of their abusers, and the red tape of the federal forfeiture system should not be a barrier to their adoption. We are grateful to Senators Harris and Collins, and Representatives Chu and Katko, for championing the HEART Act to streamline the process to give these victims of cruelty the chance they deserve to find safe and loving homes.” Specifically, the HEART Act: Accelerates the disposition process by reducing from 60 to 30 days the amount of time the government has to notify interested parties following the seizure of animals under the federal animal fighting or gambling statutes Requires the court to consider the animals’ welfare as well as the cost to the government when seeking to extend the notice period Requires claimants to reimburse the costs of caring for animals seized in federal animal fighting cases when the government prevails in civil forfeiture proceedings Gives judges the discretion to allow the consideration of the claimant’s culpability, financial condition, and other factors when requiring and determining reimbursement
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced two additional town hall meetings for next week in Salina and the City of Syracuse focused on the future of Interstate 81. “There was a tremendous community turnout in both Auburn and DeWitt for our first two town halls on the future of I-81. This is an issue that individuals throughout our community feel passionately about, and rightfully so. As our community moves forward with making this decision, it is critical that we hear the perspective of our entire region. I’m excited to continue the conversation in Syracuse and Salina next week.” Details are as follows: Tuesday, February 19 Town of Salina Time: 6:00 p.m. Doors will open at 5:30 p.m. Location: Liverpool Middle School, Cafeteria 720 Seventh Street Liverpool, New York This discussion will be moderated by Town of Salina Supervisor Colleen Gunnip. Thursday, February 21 City of Syracuse Time: 6:00 p.m. Doors will open at 5:30 p.m. Please use entrance off of main parking lot on Magnolia Street. Location: Public Service Leadership Academy at Fowler High School, Auditorium 227 Magnolia Street Syracuse, New York 13204 This discussion will be moderated by Onondaga County Legislator Chris Ryan, 8th District. Representatives from the New York State Department of Transportation and the U.S. Federal Highway Administration have been invited to attend. The events are free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Time will be allotted for questions.
02.07.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. John Katko (R, NY-24) and U.S. Rep. Elijah Cummings (D, MD-7) today re-introduced The Harriet Tubman Tribute Act, bipartisan legislation that directs the Secretary of the Treasury to place the likeness of Harriet Tubman on $20 Federal Reserve notes printed after December 31, 2020. Harriet Tubman gained her freedom from slavery in 1849 and became a conductor on the Underground Railroad, which was critical to guiding many escaped slaves to freedom. She is recognized as a fighter for freedom and equality. She dedicated her life to several noble causes in addition to civil rights, including nursing during the civil war and championing equal rights for women. “Harriet Tubman is an American icon, who represents our values of freedom and opportunity. She fought the evils of slavery and strived to create equality for all people, regardless of their race or gender,” said Rep. Katko. “I am proud Harriet Tubman settled in Central New York and her influence is still present in our community today. The Harriet Tubman Home in Auburn honors her life’s work and is a tremendous boost to our region’s tourism-based economy. I’m proud to once again champion this bipartisan measure with Rep. Cummings to honor Harriet Tubman's legacy.” “Too often, our nation does not do enough to honor the contributions of women in American history, especially women of color. Placing Harriet Tubman on our U.S. currency would be a fitting tribute to a woman who fought to make the values enshrined in our Constitution a reality for all Americans,” Rep. Cummings said. “Harriet Tubman was called the Moses of her people, because after she escaped slavery, she courageously made 19 trips to the South to free more than 300 enslaved African Americans. Her courage, conviction, and commitment to equality represent the best of America and it is long past time we recognize her place in history. I am proud to reintroduce this bill with Rep. Katko to honor Harriet Tubman’s role in making America a more free and more equal society.”
02.06.2019	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – The Office of U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that the Congressman’s upcoming town hall meeting on the future of I-81 will now be held in the gymnasium at Saint Matthew's School in order to accommodate growing public interest. Updated details are as follows: Saturday, February 9 Time: The town hall meeting will begin at 10:00 a.m. Doors will open at 9:30 a.m. Location: Saint Matthew's School Gymnasium 214 Kinne Street East Syracuse, NY 13057 This discussion will be moderated by Town of Dewitt Deputy Supervisor Kerry Mannion. Representatives from the New York State Department of Transportation and the U.S. Federal Highway Administration have been invited to attend. Rep. Katko plans to announce details on additional town hall meetings focused on the future of I-81 later this month, to be held in Salina and the City of Syracuse. The events are free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Time will be allotted for questions. ###
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) will this evening be joined for the President’s State of the Union address by Randi Bregman, Executive Director of Vera House, Inc. in Syracuse, New York. The mission of Vera House, Inc. is to prevent, respond to and partner to end domestic and sexual violence and other forms of abuse. This past fall, alongside Bregman, members of the team and board at Vera House, and survivors, Rep. Katko urged a bipartisan and comprehensive reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). Since being signed into law in 1994, VAWA has helped to protect and support millions of Americans who have faced domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking. The measure is currently temporarily funded, and set to expire on Friday, February 15, 2019. “Randi is a tremendous advocate in our community against domestic violence and sexual assault. It has been an honor to partner with her to urge a bipartisan, long-term and comprehensive reauthorization of VAWA and I am privileged to have her as my guest for the State of the Union this evening,” said Rep. Katko. “VAWA is an essential program that allows Vera House, and organizations nationwide, to provide services for victims of domestic and sexual violence, and to work to change the conversation and prevent violence going forward. It is far past time that we have a long-term and reliable reauthorization of VAWA.” Vera House Inc., Executive Director Randi Bregman said, “I am deeply honored to be invited to attend the State of the Union as Congressman Katko’s guest, and I am particularly pleased that the invitation will include the opportunity to have thoughtful and intentional dialogue with him and others about ensuring passage of a comprehensive, bi-partisan reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act.”
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced details for two upcoming town hall meetings he is hosting focused on the future of Interstate 81. “Our community has a once-in-a-generation decision before us as we look to the future of Interstate 81. This decision impacts not only the City of Syracuse, but the towns and villages that surround it and rely on I-81,” said Rep. John Katko. “I have always stated I will stand firmly behind the decision of our community and support it on the federal level. That’s why I’m looking forward to engaging with folks throughout Central New York in a series of open town hall meetings focused on this important issue.” Details are as follows:Monday, February 4 City of Auburn Time: 6:00 p.m. Location: Community Room at Cayuga Community College 197 Franklin Street Auburn, New York 13021 This discussion will be moderated by Steve Lynch, Cayuga County Director of Planning & Economic Development. Saturday, February 9 Town of DeWitt Time: 10:00 a.m. Location: DeWitt Town Hall, Court Room 5400 Butternut Drive East Syracuse, NY 13057 This discussion will be moderated by Town of Dewitt Councilor Kerry Mannion. Representatives from the New York State Department of Transportation and the U.S. Federal Highway Administration have been invited to attend. In addition to the events next week in Auburn and Dewitt, Rep. Katko plans to announce details on additional town hall meetings focused on the future of I-81 later this month, to be held in Salina and the City of Syracuse. The events are free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Time will be allotted for questions.
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) announced the passage of bipartisan counterterrorism legislation he authored, H.R. 769, the Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act of 2019. This legislation ensures that the Department of Homeland Security coordinates all of its counterterrorism efforts to limit duplication, inefficiency, and waste. This is the first measure Rep. Katko has passed in the new, Democrat-controlled House. The measure previously passed during the 114th and 115th Congresses. “As the United States continues to face threats from terrorist organizations and extremists, it is imperative our country is well-prepared to respond. This legislation will establish a coordinated strategy in order to stop attacks before they occur,” said Rep. Katko. “Americans deserve to feel secure at home and abroad. It is essential that government agencies are all on the same page when it comes to protecting Americans from terror threats.” This act codifies a board within the Department of Homeland Security that will organize departmental counterterrorism goals and clearly communicate and coordinate counterterrorism activities. By authorizing the CTAB, this bill would ensure a stable body of trusted experts to give advice to the Secretary of Homeland Security. Specifically, this bipartisan legislation: Updates the CTAB Charter to better enable it to confront tomorrow’s challenges and requires the Secretary to appoint a Coordinator for Counterterrorism to oversee the board’s activities. Requires the CTAB to advise the Secretary on the issuance of terrorism alerts, ensuring that top counterterrorism and intelligence officials play a key role in delivering these critical notices to the public. Ensures continued Congressional oversight by requiring DHS to report on the status and activities of the CTAB so that we can be certain it is meeting its mandate. “I introduced this legislation during the previous two Congresses and it overwhelmingly passed the House each time. Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle clearly understand the importance of creating a cohesive counterterrorism plan and I am grateful for the support from both my Republican and Democratic colleagues on this initiative. The passing of this legislation proves not all issues need to be partisan and it is my hope this bill will be signed into law during the 116th Congress,” concluded Rep. Katko.
01.28.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) was this afternoon named Ranking Member on the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Innovation. “I am excited to serve in this new role on the House Homeland Security Committee,” said Rep. Katko. “As our nation becomes more and more dependent on technology, we must also remain vigilant to address and improve our cyber protections. I’m looking forward to pursuing bipartisan policies that strengthen our nation’s cybersecurity infrastructure and improve private-public partnerships. I am eager to begin work alongside Ranking Member Rogers, Chairman Thompson, and all members of the full committee as we continue our bipartisan efforts to keep this country safe.” During the 114th and 115th Congress, Rep. Katko served as Chairman of the Transportation & Protective Security Subcommittee, where he had oversight of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and the U.S. Secret Service.
01.25.2019	Syracuse, New York — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) this afternoon released the following statement: “I applaud the end of this lengthy and costly government shutdown. The past month has been a political show by both sides and has revealed deep divides within Congress. "As we move forward, I believe we must use this as an opportunity to compromise. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to put this period of dysfunction behind us and work across the aisle to formulate an immigration and border security measure that both sides can get behind, as well as a permanent funding agreement. I look forward to getting to work on this.”
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. --- Today, U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) announced his co-sponsorship of H.R. 622, the Government Shutdown Prevention Act, legislation to end the process of governing from shutdown to shutdown and fix Congress’s dysfunctional budget process. “Since coming to Congress, I have strongly opposed government shutdowns. Manipulating the budget for political gain is irrational and directly undermines the legislative process. There are no winners when Congress fails to fund the government,” said Rep. Katko. “This legislation ensures critical federal programs continue to function by providing an automatic continuing resolution for appropriations bills not signed into law before the end of the fiscal year. It is Congress’s duty to fund the government in a responsible, timely manner and this bill holds elected officials accountable to keep the federal government open.” The Government Shutdown Prevention Act was introduced by Representative Lloyd Smucker (R-PA). Since 2013, the federal government has shut down on four separate occasions. Since Dec. 22, the federal government has been shut down due to an impasse over spending and, as of Jan. 16, it is the longest federal shutdown in history. If passed, the legislation would automatically continue government funding through a continuing resolution. The bill would implement a five percent spending penalty on the day the continuing resolution begins. Federal spending would be reduced by two percent 60 days after the first day of the fiscal year and by an additional two percent each subsequent 60-day period.
01.22.2019	Katko, Brindisi Say Members of Both Parties Must Find a Bipartisan Compromise to Reopening the GovernmentKatko, Brindisi Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Pay Transportation Security Officers During ShutdownContinued Shutdown Could Cause More Flight Delays, Put Our National Security at Risk SYRACUSE, NEW YORK -- Congressmen John Katko (R, NY-24) and Anthony Brindisi (D, NY-22) joined together to call on members of both parties to find a bipartisan solution to end the government shutdown. At the Syracuse Hancock International Airport (SYR) this morning, they also announced bipartisan legislation they will introduce to pay Transportation Security Officers during the shutdown. The bipartisan bill, which will be introduced this afternoon, will allow the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to use security fee revenue to pay the salary of Transportation Security Officers (TSO) during any lapse in appropriations. The fee is currently diverted to the Treasury as part of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013. Congressman Katko said, "The TSA officers who work right here in Syracuse - and nationwide - are working without pay because of the current government shutdown. Throughout my four years in Congress, I've worked to provide oversight of this agency and to make it more efficient and safe. I know that many of these hardworking men and women work paycheck to paycheck, which is why I'm proud to introduce bipartisan legislation with Rep. Brindisi and a bipartisan group of lawmakers today to allow TSA to provide pay to these officers during the shutdown." "The current shutdown has gone on for far too long. We need both sides to come together, listen to one another, and compromise. Rep. Brindisi and I are willing to do that, despite our party differences, because we both believe we must re-open the government. I am hopeful that as we head back to Washington today, more legislators are willing to work across the aisle." “This government shutdown has real consequences, especially for the people who work every day at our airports to keep our country safe,” said Congressman Brindisi. “The shutdown is causing unwarranted stress to the hardworking men and women who already work incredibly stressful jobs. They should be able to do their jobs without worrying that they might miss a car payment or fall behind on their mortgage.” “Congressman Katko and I are part of a group of bipartisan members committed to working together to end this shutdown, and it’s time for leadership in both parties to follow suit. Let’s reopen the government now,” continued Brindisi. In 2018, Syracuse saw an 11% increase in total passenger traffic with nearly 100,00 passengers flying out of SYR each month. TSA nationally services 851 million passengers annually. Air traffic controllers are also working without pay. According to the National Air Traffic Control Association (NATCA), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has suspended hiring and closed its training academy in Oklahoma City. The number of fully certified controllers is now at a 30 year low. If the staffing shortage continues, there will be reduced capacity in the National Airspace System, leading to more flight delays.
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) re-introduced the Lawrence J. Hackett Jr. Vietnam Veterans Agent Orange Fairness Act. Named in honor of Sergeant Lawrence Hackett, who lost his battle with Agent Orange related cancer in 2006, this act will create a task force to explore ways to financially and medically provide for veterans who have been exposed to Agent Orange. “Our nation’s veterans have struggled with the side effects of Agent Orange for far too long,” said Rep. Katko. “Veterans have risked their lives in dangerous conflicts in order to defend our country. Larry Hackett, among countless other veterans, lost their lives due to complications resulting from Agent Orange. Veterans should not be subjected to the financial burdens created by illnesses this chemical causes.” Agent Orange, a chemical defoliant used during the Korean and Vietnam wars, has left a large number of veterans who served in these wars with life-threatening diseases and cancers, including Hodgkin’s Disease, Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, Parkinson’s Disease, lung and skin cancers, and Chronic B-cell Leukemia. There is also increasing evidence that many of the children and grandchildren of these veterans suffer from Spina Bifida, birth defects, and other illnesses. While many of our nation’s veterans and their families have been greatly impacted by these diseases, many currently do not qualify for the presumption of coverage and lack the necessary benefits to compensate for their service. “This bill establishes a task force to properly assess the impact of Agent Orange on our nation’s veterans, as well as hold the VA accountable for the lethal impacts of this substance,” Katko continued. “This legislation honors Sergeant Hackett’s legacy, and will help improve the lives of the veterans and their families who have been afflicted.” The task force established by Katko’s legislation would require the VA to conduct a comprehensive review and make recommendations about care and compensation based on exposure for veterans and their families. It forms a national outreach campaign to educate veterans on the medical risks associated with Agent Orange exposure. “I am proud to re-introduce this legislation and continue my advocacy for all those affected by Agent Orange in our district and across the country,” concluded Katko.
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — On Thursday, the first day of the 116th Congress, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) joined Reps. Ted Deutch (D-FL), Jim McGovern (D-MA), and Jamie Raskin (D-MD) in introducing a bipartisan constitutional amendment to get big money out of politics and restore democratic power to the American people. The Democracy for All Amendment affirms the right of states and the federal government to pass laws that regulate spending in elections, reversing the concentration of political influence held by the wealthiest Americans and large corporations capable of spending millions of dollars in our elections. This legislation comes days before the ninth anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court’s disastrous ruling in the Citizens United case. “I have long supported a constitutional amendment to reform our campaign finance system and firmly believe that we must take a bipartisan approach to make this happen," Congressman Katko said. "I’m proud to join Rep. Deutch and a number of my colleagues in reintroducing this legislation, as we take the first step in the new Congress towards real reform.” “Years after the Citizens United decision, election spending has exploded into billion-dollar races that corrupt our elections by drowning out the voices of American voters," said Congressman Deutch. "Meaningful political participation cannot be reserved for individuals with extreme wealth and special interests, and we cannot continue to allow those who spend the most to dictate public policy that is out of step with our country. From climate change to gun violence, the issues that are most important to the American people are dominated by the will of the bottomless pockets that fund elections rather than the will of voters. We need to overturn Citizens United to get big money out of politics, strengthen our democracy, and restore power to the American people.” “Let’s not mince words here – for too long, the needs of the American people have taken a backseat to the needs of corporations that dump unlimited amounts of money into political campaigns,” said Congressman McGovern. “From gun violence to healthcare costs to climate change, the issues Americans care about have been held hostage by wealthy special interests. No more. We have got to solve this, and we have to overturn the disastrous Citizens United decision to restore the power of the ballot box and get big money out of politics.” “In Citizens United, five Supreme Court Justices overturned two centuries of jurisprudence to determine that private corporations enjoy the political free speech rights of the people," Congressman Raskin said. "As hundreds of millions of dollars in dark money are spent by CEOs in the name of their unwitting shareholders, we are seeing what Court-ordered plutocracy looks like. But the democracy is stirring. As the exciting 116th Congress convenes, it’s time we remind America of what popular government looks like—that’s why I’m proud to support this bipartisan Amendment to rebuild the wall of separation between massive private corporations and the people’s public elections.” "The Supreme Court’s decisions in Citizens United, Buckley v. Valeo and related cases are antithetical to democracy," said Robert Weissman, President of Public Citizen. "They stand for the proposition that corporations and the super rich should be able to drown out the voices and votes of everyone else; and they have, in fact, enabled the Big Money donor class to dominate our politics. As a direct result, we have a government responsive to corporate and super rich demands, but derisive of overwhelming public support to guarantee health care to all, slash drug prices, raise the minimum wage, avert catastrophic climate change and more. The Democracy for All Amendment will, finally, return us to a government of We the People. Public Citizen thanks Reps. Deutch, McGovern, Raskin and Katko for leading the way to what will be the 28th amendment to the U.S. Constitution." "American democracy has become increasingly broken and beholden to big money, contributing to rising inequality and injustices across the board. Now is the time for bold solutions" said Marge Baker, People For the American Way Executive Vice President. "We wholeheartedly support the reintroduction of the Democracy For All amendment. Americans deserve a democracy that serves the interests of all of us, not just the privileged and powerful." “Across the political spectrum, Americans want a constitutional amendment which will reclaim our democracy,” says John Bonifaz, the Co-Founder and President of Free Speech For People. “The Democracy For All Amendment would allow for overall campaign spending limits and would end the big money dominance of our elections. We applaud the re-introduction of this amendment, and we urge Congress to pass it and send it to the states for ratification.” "On behalf of our nearly 200,000 supporters in all 50 states, American Promise applauds the introduction of this constitutional amendment with bi-partisan support," said Jeff Clements, President of American Promise. "An amendment is a necessary foundation in securing free and fair elections for all Americans, not just wealthy donors and special interests. Eliminating the undue influence of big money in our political system is not a partisan issue, it's an American one." American Promise is a national cross-partisan organization that empowers all Americans to work together for the 28th Amendment so that people, not money, govern America, and includes a distinguished Advisory Council consisting of former U.S. Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Former Governor Mike Dukakis (D-MA), Former U.S. Senator Alan Simpson (R-WY) and many others.
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement: “I made a promise when I first ran for office that I would never vote to shut down the government or to continue a government shutdown. I kept that promise. I voted yesterday evening in support of legislation before the House to re-open the government and restore funding to critical government programming like VAWA. “I strongly believe we must do more to secure our border and keep this country safe. That’s why I previously voted in support of $5 billion in funding for border security, and led efforts this past summer to produce a comprehensive bill that would have both provided a DACA fix and enhanced our nation’s border security. I remain increasingly frustrated by the inaction of both sides in Congress on this issue. Still, a government shutdown is a costly and unnecessary maneuver that does not help resolve Congress’ failure to act.”
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Following his vote today for the Democrat rules package, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement: “I supported the Rules package before the House today because I stand firmly in my support for the set of principles put forth by the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus to make the House run more efficiently. Bills with broad support will now be considered quickly and the legislative process will become more transparent. I am hopeful that with these changes, the institution will function in a more bipartisan manner. “I also stand by my pledge to support protections within the Affordable Care Act for individuals with pre-existing conditions. Last Congress, I joined a bipartisan resolution expressing the need for Congress to act swiftly to reinstate these protections should they be hindered by any court ruling. The Rules package I supported today contains provisions allowing the House to defend these protections. With the changes made today, I urge Democrats to use this authority to fight for those with pre-existing conditions – not abuse their power to explore or re-visit decided legal challenges within the Affordable Care Act.”
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) announced today that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has awarded a $3,737,495 grant to the Wayne County Action Program for Head Start projects. “The Wayne County Action Program plays a key role in providing necessary resources to help underserved communities reach their full potential. This organization has long partnered with Head Start/Early Head Start, a federal program that prioritizes the health of children and gives parents the means to educate their children from an early age,” said Rep. Katko. “I am a strong supporter of both the Wayne Country Action Program and the Head Start/Early Head Start Program as I firmly believe they make a significant difference in the lives of countless families throughout Wayne County and all of Central New York. I fought to preserve these funding opportunities in the Department of Health and Human Services funding bill when it came before Congress, and I am pleased our community will continue to receive the benefits.” The Wayne County Action Program is dedicated to supporting Wayne County programs and frequently collaborates with health and human service agencies to assist communities in need. Head Start/Early Head Start programs assist young children from low-income families with early education development, ensuring they are prepared for elementary school.
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement regarding last night's vote to fund the federal government: “I have always believed that government shutdowns are costly, unnecessary and demonstrate a failure to seek bipartisan compromise. I have not, and will never, vote to support a shutdown. Last night, I voted in support of a measure before the House to fund the government and provide border security funding and natural disaster aid. “There are no clean hands in the negotiations that have taken place over the past several days. This has been handled poorly by both sides. While I strongly believe we must secure our border and implement permanent, comprehensive immigration reform, Congress has had plenty of opportunity to act on this issue and failed to do so. Earlier this year, I helped negotiate a compromise bill that would have both secured our border and provided legal status for DACA recipients. However, this measure did not advance in the House. Now, Congress has again kicked the can down the road and members from both parties are at a standstill. This is not an effective or productive way to govern. “As we await action in the Senate today, I remain willing to work with both sides to build consensus and keep the government open.”
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, with the support of U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Conference Report to H.R. 2, the Agriculture Improvement Act. While Rep. Katko broke with his party and voted against earlier versions of the Farm Bill, he supported the measure before the House today because updated provisions in the bill protect the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Nearly 18% of all households in NY-24 are dependent on SNAP benefits. “I was proud to support the updated Farm Bill before the House today, which protects SNAP and supports our region’s vast agriculture economy. This updated measure will ensure the thousands of families in our community working to raise themselves out of poverty have the support that they need,” said Rep. Katko. “In addition, this bill contains several wins for our region’s dairy and apple farmers. Importantly, it incentivizes our local farmers to protect our region’s water sources as we work to combat Harmful Algal Blooms and other invasive species threatening our water supply.” Kathleen Stress, Executive Director of the Food Bank of Central New York said, "The Farm Bill, which passed both the Senate and House this week, protects the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the critical program that ensures thousands of people in Central and Northern New York, who struggle against hunger, can afford to put food in their refrigerators and on their tables. The Food Bank of Central New York applauds the hard and committed work of key members from New York, on both sides of the aisle, who prioritized the needs of those at risk of hunger in our community including Congressman Katko, who worked closely with us to champion the program." In addition to his work to protect SNAP benefits, Rep. Katko advocated for several other priority areas for local farmers. As a result of Rep. Katko’s advocacy, the final Farm Bill: · Provides Economic Development and Infrastructure Investment Opportunities for Wayne County by adding Wayne County to a list of counties in New York State eligible for Northern Border Regional Commission (NBRC) funding opportunities. · Supports Upstate New York Dairy Farmers by Overhauling the Margin Protection Program for Dairy, renamed the Dairy Margin Coverage program, to provide more effective and flexible coverage to dairy farmers. · Works to Address Growing Water Quality Issues, such as Harmful Algal Blooms, by incentivizing farmers to employ methods to protect wetlands and water sources. · Provides Support for Upstate New York Apple Growers by continuing $2.4 billion in permanent investments in research, pest management and promotions of fruits and vegetables. · Preservers and Protects Crop Insurance for Farmers and improves crop insurance access for​veterans, beginning farmers, and fruit and vegetable growers. It more than doubles the disaster assistance coverage options for crops that are not eligible for insurance. · Increases Access to Foreign Markets for Farmers by expanding export opportunities and securing an additional nearly $500 million in permanent funding over the next decade to help farmers find new global markets for their goods. ###
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Following news this week that the City of Syracuse will receive $3,500,000 in a Lead Based Paint Hazard Reduction grant and $600,000 in Healthy Homes Supplemental funding, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the below statement: “Since coming to Congress, I’ve prioritized addressing the lead paint public health crisis faced by families and children in the most distressed neighborhoods of our City. I’ve consistently supported grant applications by the City of Syracuse and Onondaga County to combat lead poisoning, which poses an irreversible threat to young children. “Under the leadership of County Executive Ryan McMahon, and former County Executive Joanie Mahoney, Onondaga County has helped fill the void since the City’s lead abatement program was disqualified in 2014. With this funding award, the City of Syracuse will be able to build upon these efforts to fully reinstate its program and continue addressing and removing lead-based paint hazards. “In Congress, I have fought to fully fund programming to assist in lead abatement and prevention. I will continue to work with the City and Onondaga County to ensure this program remains funded and we’re able to continue our work to raise the quality of life for children and families in our community.” Background: · With the support of Rep. Katko, the City of Syracuse applied for and will be awarded $3,500,000 in Lead Based Paint Hazard Reduction grant program funding and $600,000 in Healthy Homes Supplemental funding. · With this funding, the City of Syracuse will work to address lead hazards in 230 housing units providing safer homes for low and very low-income families with children. The City will also perform healthy homes assessments. The City of Syracuse will work together with the Onondaga County Community Development, the Onondaga County Health Department and other medical and social service providers locally to implement this programming. · Through the appropriations process in Washington, Rep. Katko successfully fought for an $85 million increase in funding for HUD's Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes, which administers the Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration Grant Program. Additionally, he delivered an $18 million increase in funding for the CDC's Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention program to ensure lead poisoning surveillance is conducted in every state. ###
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that, following his advocacy, Wayne County has been added to a list of counties in New York State eligible for Northern Border Regional Commission (NBRC) funding opportunities. The designation was included in the text of the bicameral Farm Bill released today. Rep. Katko has consistently advocated for Wayne County’s inclusion in the NBRC, an economic development partnership between the federal government and regional state and local governments designed to help reduce economic distress and encourage private-sector job creation throughout designated northern counties of New York, Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont. In NY-24, Cayuga and Oswego Counties are also eligible to receive NBRC funding. “I was proud to advocate to ensure Wayne County received this designation. It is critical that we invest in and strengthen our rural communities in New York, and this designation will ensure that Wayne County is considered for critical infrastructure and economic development funding projects to make our region stronger,” said Rep. John Katko. The House is expected to vote on the Farm Bill this week.
12.01.2018	Syracuse, New York — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement: "Today, our nation grieves the loss of a true American hero, President George H.W. Bush. President Bush gave his life to public service. For 70 years, he worked to make the United States - and indeed, the world - a more united, moral, and peaceful place. His devotion to family and his beloved wife, Barbara, was unmatched. With his passing, may President Bush forever remain a noble example for us all. Robin and I offer our prayers to the entire Bush family, and all who loved President Bush, during this difficult time." ###
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Following news this week that the Trump Administration plans to announce a permanent ban on bump stocks, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement: “Following the horrific and senseless shooting in Las Vegas last year that killed 58 people, I joined my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in urging a permanent ban on bump stocks. I’m glad that the Administration has taken action and moved forward with this vital request. “I have and will always be a strong 2nd amendment supporter -- but bump stocks transform semiautomatic guns into machine guns. As a former federal prosecutor, I worked for nearly 20 years to keep illegal guns off our streets. These devices have no place in our society. “We must continue to work in Congress to keep firearms out of the hands of those who want to do harm to others or to themselves. I remain committed to doing so in a bipartisan manner.”
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) traveled to Montreal to participate in the Leaders Plenary of the AVSEC 2018 Conference for the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), which sets global standards for aviation safety and security. By participating in the keynote panel, Rep. Katko, who chairs the Subcommittee on Transportation and Protective Security for the House Homeland Security Committee, addressed several hundred representatives from 190+ ICAO member nations around the world. His remarks urged more investment in aviation security screening and technologies, as well as better cooperation between the United States and partner countries to improve aviation security and to protect the free movement of people and goods. Specifically, Rep. Katko focused on mutual efforts to mitigate insider threats to aviation security and protect crowded public areas of airports, where a number of high profile terror attacks have occurred in recent years. Following today’s conference, Rep. Katko stated, “This conference brings together the world’s top aviation security leaders and influencers to discuss how we can work together to combat threats to the traveling public. I am honored to have been invited by the Secretary General of ICAO to discuss mutual security interests and how the United States can be an even stronger partner in securing aviation around the world. The free movement of people and goods is central to the American way of life and our economy, and we must seize every opportunity to close security gaps.” ###
11.05.2018	Syracuse, New York — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) and Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh today announced the City of Syracuse has been awarded nearly $300,000 in funding from the U.S. Department of Justice for Body-Worn Cameras for the City of Syracuse Police Department. Congressman Katko supported the application for funding submitted by the City of Syracuse. “As the City of Syracuse continues to fight gang violence plaguing our city, this funding will help ensure that our police officers and community are safe. I proudly advocated for this award so that the City of Syracuse can expand its current Body-Worn Camera program,” said Congressman John Katko. “This program is an integral part of the Police Department’s ongoing, comprehensive community engagement strategy. I commend Mayor Walsh, Chief Fowler, and the hardworking men and women of the Syracuse Police Department for their commitment to keeping the City safe and to build and maintain positive relationships between law enforcement and the community.” Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh said, “We expect the body-worn camera program to create significant benefits for our police officers and for the community, but it also brings additional costs. The support of the Department of Justice and Congressman Katko ensures our police department has the resources they need to do their jobs and to make our neighborhoods safer. Thank you Congressman for providing the support necessary to keep this program operating.” Congressman Katko and Mayor Walsh were joined by Syracuse Police Chief Frank Fowler in announcing the funding today.
10.29.2018	Syracuse, New York — Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding the announcement by U.S. Attorney Grant Jaquith that fourteen "110 gang" members will be prosecuted under federal anti-racketeering law: "It is welcome news to see that the U.S. Attorney's office is again applying RICO standards to prosecute gang violence. When I first started using this innovative tool back in 2002, these prosecutions had a profound impact on our community, decreasing violence in the city of Syracuse. With gang violence once again plaguing the city, these prosecutions will help rid our streets of crime and drugs and make our community a safer place." Prior to representing Central New York in Congress, Congressman John Katko served as an organized crime and narcotics prosecutor for nearly 20 years. He led the Syracuse Gang Violence Task Force and used RICO laws to prosecute gangs in the City of Syracuse. He helped put away more than 130 gang members over 11 years. ###
10.24.2018	Syracuse, New York — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today issued the following statement: "I unequivocally condemn the threats made today. Violence against anyone - from any party - is unacceptable and contrary our nation’s values. In the current heightened threat environment, we must take these acts very seriously. I applaud the swift and professional response by the men and women of the U.S. Secret Service, the FBI, and our first responders to keep our country safe. ###
10.10.2018	Syracuse, New York — Yesterday evening, bipartisan, bicameral legislation introduced in the House by U.S. Rep. John Katko, the Fort Ontario Study Act, was signed into law by President Donald Trump. “Since coming to Congress in 2015, putting Fort Ontario on the path to becoming a National Park has been among my top priorities. Fort Ontario and Safe Haven National Refugee Shelter are important sites both in our regional history as well as the history of our country,”said Rep. John Katko. “I could not be more enthused that this bill is now law and our treasured landmark is on its way to being nationally recognized.” “Fort Ontario and its tremendous history represent many important chapters in our nation’s heritage,” said Oswego County Legislature Chairman Shane Broadwell. “Congressman Katko has been steadfast in his efforts to elevate the fort and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum to National Park status. The official approval of the Fort Ontario Study Act is the next step in that process. Congressman Katko made this one of his priorities, and he kept his promise. Oswego Mayor Billy Barlow said, “We are grateful to the Congressman for his unwavering efforts to move passage of the bill through the House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, and achieve signature by President Trump. It’s truly a reflection of our democracy in action.” The Fort Ontario Study Act advances Fort Ontario and Safe Haven National Refugee Shelter in Oswego in the process to become a National Park. It commissions a special resource study of Fort Ontario and Safe Haven in Oswego County to evaluate the site’s national significance and determine the suitability of its designation as a part of the National Park system. This study is a prerequisite for receiving National Park designation. The legislation passed the House was the first bill that Rep. Katko reintroduced during the 115th Congress, and it passed the House in January 2017. Last month, Rep. Katko celebrated passage of the bill by both houses of Congress at Safe Haven with local stakeholders and elected officials. ###
09.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Federal Aviation Authorization (FAA) Reauthorization Act, a measure which included the language of seven bipartisan bills introduced and championed by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24). “The seven measures included within the FAA reauthorization that passed the House this week will make travel easier and safer nationwide,” said Rep. John Katko. “As our nation continues to face threats to aviation, and I’ve made it a priority as Chairman of the Transportation & Protective Security Committee to keep our airports safe, secure, and efficient for travelers and for the men and women who work in this industry. The measures that passed the House this week help accomplish those goals and I’m proud to have worked across the aisle to gain bipartisan support for each bill.” A description of each measure can be found below. 1. HR 876, The Aviation Employee Screening and Security Enhancement Act (Access Controls): This legislation expands stakeholder access to the FBI’s Rap Back program, improves the vetting and credentialing of aviation workers, and requires a cost and feasibility assessment for full employee screening at airports nationwide. 2. HR 6265, The PreCheck is PreCheck Act: This bill will ensure that only individuals who are enrolled as a trusted traveler are permitted to access TSA’s PreCheck lanes (with narrow exceptions for children and servicemembers), while also authorizing a risk-modified screening pilot to improve checkpoint efficiency. 3. HR 1309, The TSA Administrator Modernization Act (5-Year Term): This legislation will create consistency and continuity of leadership at TSA, which has been plagued by frequent turnover at the agency’s highest rank, by establishing a five-year term for the Administrator. 4. HR 5730, The Transportation Security Technology Reform Act (TSIF Authorization): This legislation authorizes the TSA Systems Integration Facility (TSIF) to streamline the testing and evaluation of new security technologies while also providing unprecedented transparency to stakeholders in TSA’s acquisitions and procurement processes. 5. HR 3328, The Cuban Airport Security Act: This bill responds to disturbing security vulnerabilities uncovered through the Subcommittee’s oversight relating to the security of flights between Cuba and the United States. The bill will provide Congress with new information on the screening of passengers in Cuba and the overall security of airports in Cuba, while also directing TSA to seek increased security standards at LPD airports worldwide. 6. HR 2132, The Traveler Redress Improvement Act: This bill ensures that travelers who have been erroneously flagged by one of TSA’s intelligence algorithms as “high risk” are provided appropriate redress to prevent inaccurate screening or vetting. 7. HR 5081- The Surface Transportation Security and Technology Accountability Act: This bill creates a Surface Transportation Security Advisory Committee, much like the ASAC, to provide stakeholder input and perspective to TSA in order to improve surface transportation security and address evolving threats. The bill also ensures that TSA’s statutorily required five year investment place to Congress includes references to surface and air cargo. ###
09.25.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – Standing today at Vera House, Inc., U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) and Vera House Executive Director Randi Bregman called on Congress to pass a bipartisan, long-term reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). Rep. Katko and Bregman were joined by survivors in urging both sides of the aisle to prioritize a bipartisan reauthorization. Since being signed into law in 1994, VAWA has helped to protect and support millions of American who have faced domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking. The measure is currently set to expire on September 30th. Earlier this month, Rep. Katko led efforts calling on Republican leaders to work across the aisle to put forth a long-term, bipartisan VAWA reauthorization measure. However, since that time, while a short-term proposal has been offered, there is no indication that a long-term reauthorization measure will come to the floor. “The Violence Against Women Act is set to expire at the end of this week, and Congress has still not acted on a bipartisan reauthorization measure. We cannot continue to kick the can down the road with a short-term extension,” said Congressman Katko. “Our community -- and organizations like Vera House -- deserves a strengthened, comprehensive and reliable reauthorization. We must preserve and protect federal protections against domestic and sexual violence.” Randi Bregman, Executive Director of Vera House, stated “As our national attention is focused this week on the voices of survivors, there could be no better time to ensure passage of a bipartisan comprehensive, long-term reauthorization of VAWA. In our own community, VAWA funds have been essential for us to enhance services for victims of domestic and sexual violence who are Deaf, refugees and immigrants, and victims of abuse in later life. VAWA funds have also helped us engage men and youth in conversations about preventing violence before it occurs. It is our fervent hope that both parties in Congress will act immediately to pass a bill and thereby reassure victims and survivors across the nation that they truly matter.” ###
09.24.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement: “I join our community in thanking Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney for her years of public service to Central New York. “Joanie has always had the courage to rise above politics to do what is right for our community. Because of these efforts, we have seen an unprecedented investment in water infrastructure and Onondaga Lake, reduced county property taxes, and streamlined services for taxpayers during her tenure as County Executive. “While I am saddened to see Joanie leave Onondaga County government, SUNY ESF and SUNY Upstate are fortunate to gain her leadership. “Robin and I wish Joanie, her husband, Marc, and their family the best as they move forward with this next chapter in their lives.” ###
09.21.2018	OSWEGO, NEW YORK – Standing this morning at Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum, U.S. Rep. John Katko was joined by Oswego County advocates, elected officials, educators, students, and community members in celebrating passage of the Fort Ontario Study Act by both Houses of Congress. The Fort Ontario Study Act is bipartisan legislation Rep. Katko introduced and passed through the House in January 2017. It has been among his top priorities in Congress, and puts Fort Ontario and Safe Haven on the path towards becoming a National Park. Earlier this week, the measure passed the Senate. “It was an incredible morning in Oswego County as we celebrated passage of the Fort Ontario Study Act, legislation which will put Fort Ontario and Safe Haven on the path towards becoming a National Park,” said Rep. John Katko. “This site is truly deserving of national recognition. Fort Ontario was involved in nearly every American war from the French & Indian War through WWII and Safe Haven served as the only Emergency Refugee Camp during WWII, providing shelter to over 980 refugees fleeing the Holocaust. I was honored to introduce and pass through the House this bipartisan measure, but it would not have been possible without the incredible support of the Oswego community.” At today’s celebration, Safe Haven and Fort Ontario representatives, as well as Oswego elected officials, praised passage of the legislation and highlighted the tremendous impact for Oswego County. Kevin Hill, President of the Board of Directors of Safe Haven stated, “I was very excited to hear of the Senate’s passage of the Fort Ontario Study Act. This brings us one step closer to bringing Safe Haven and Fort Ontario into the National Park System, allowing us to better preserve and protect this important and unique historical asset. I applaud Congressman Katko for his dedication and persistence throughout this process. He has been a champion for Safe Haven for years and we are grateful for his continued support.” "The Friends of Fort Ontario are very excited to learn of the passage of the Fort Ontario Study Act. This means that historic Fort Ontario may soon become one of the many National Historic Sites that represent America's heritage,” said Paul Foster, President of the Friends of Fort Ontario. “The Fort Ontario site has a long and varied history stretching from the French and Indian Wars up to and including World War II and the harboring holocaust refugees at Safe Haven in Oswego. We hope for the continued support to reach final acceptance as a National Historic Site." “The passage of this legislation allows the Oswego community more opportunity to promote our historical assets and use those assets to boost local tourism, promote our community and share the unique history within the City of Oswego,” said City of Oswego Mayor Billy Barlow. “I applaud Congressman Katko for his dedication and effort towards passing this legislation and appreciate his focus on increasing tourism and stimulating our economy here in Oswego” Shane Broadwell, Chairman of the Oswego County Legislature said, “Oswego County is blessed with an abundance of natural and historic resources and the Fort Ontario military reservation is chief among them. Its role, over the last three centuries, in the history of America is unlike that of any other in the country. I want to thank Congressman Katko and his colleagues in the House of Representatives and the United States Senate for recognizing the importance of our piece of American history. We hope that President Trump will look favorably on this legislation as we look forward to working with Congressman Katko and others as the study progresses to the next important step.” Rep. Katko was also joined today by several National Honor Society members from Oswego High School, who had launched a letter writing campaign in support of preserving Fort Ontario and Save Haven. ###
09.18.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – Following unanimous passage in the U.S. Senate this evening of The Fort Ontario Study Act, bipartisan, bicameral legislation introduced in the House by U.S. Rep. John Katko, the Congressman released the following statement: “Fort Ontario and Safe Haven National Refugee Shelter are treasures in our community, and testament to the important role of Central New York in our nation’s history. The Fort Ontario Study Act has been among my top priorities since coming to Congress in 2015,” said Rep. John Katko. “I’m thrilled that the Senate has moved forward this important, bipartisan and bicameral measure that I passed through the House in January of last year. I now urge the President to act swiftly in signing this measure into law so that this historic site is given the recognition it deserves.” The Fort Ontario Study Act would put Fort Ontario and Safe Haven National Refugee Shelter in Oswego on the path towards becoming a National Park. It commissions a special resource study of Fort Ontario and Safe Haven in Oswego County to evaluate the site’s national significance and determine the suitability of its designation as a part of the National Park system. This study is a prerequisite for receiving National Park designation. The legislation passed the House was the first bill that Rep. Katko reintroduced during the 115th Congress, and it passed the House in January 2017.
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - This week Reps. John Katko (R-NY-24), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32), and Don Beyer (D-VA-08) introduced H.Res. 1067 to recognize September as National Suicide Prevention Awareness Month. “In recognition of September as National Suicide Prevention Month, I’m proud to take the lead in offering a bipartisan resolution before the House alongside Reps. Napolitano and Beyer,” said Rep. Katko. Suicide is a tragedy that has impacted countless families in Central New York and nationwide, regardless of demographics. We must do more to eliminate the stigma associated with seeking mental healthcare, and to ensure those who are struggling are able to seek the help they need. As co-chair of the bipartisan Mental Health Caucus, I am committed to working across the aisle to do just that.” “September National Suicide Prevention Month is a time to educate the public on the warning signs and symptoms of mental illness, share resources and stories of resilience, and spread hope as we break the silence and stigma,” said Rep. Napolitano. “Suicide affects all of us and does not see race, gender, age, political party, or ZIP code. Our bipartisan resolution recognizes that suicide is a public health crisis, preventable, and must be a national priority. I am grateful to introduce it with Congressmen Katko and Beyer, whose leadership on the Suicide Prevention Task Force is bringing together our colleagues, experts in the field, persons with lived experience, and advocates to combat suicide and ensure life-saving services for all in need.” “We all can do more to help raise awareness of the warning signs of suicide and basic suicide prevention methods,” said Rep. Beyer. “This year National Suicide Prevention Month finds the country facing a disturbing and rapid rise in the incidence of suicide, according to CDC data. Each of us knows people who have been affected by suicide, and we have to do everything we can in our communities and as public officials to reverse this trend.” Background: Suicide is overall the 10th leading cause of death and the 2nd leading cause of death for individuals between 10 to 34. One person dies by suicide every 11.7 minutes resulting in nearly 45,000 deaths a year. Suicide is the only leading cause of death to increase every year for the past decade. Suicide is preventable; 9 out of 10 suicide attempt survivors do not go on to die by suicide. Reps. Napolitano and Katko chair the bipartisan Congressional Mental Health Caucus in Congress, where they promote access to mental health services for children and adolescents, improved mental health resources for veterans, and increased mental health coverage for all. The Suicide Prevention Task Force, which was launched one year ago today, is chaired by Reps. Katko and Beyer and is part of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255).
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – At a time when Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) have plagued waterways across New York State and threatened access to safe and reliable drinking water, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced significant progress in his fight to strengthen water infrastructure for Central New York and communities nationwide. This afternoon, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed the historic, bipartisan and bicameral America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (WRDA). The measure makes significant investments in water infrastructure, and includes the SRF Win Act, legislation authored by Congressman Katko to modernize federal investment in water infrastructure. “In Central New York, we’ve seen a steady and troubling presence of Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) and other invasive species in our lakes and waterways. We must protect our region’s water resources, and ensure safe, reliable drinking water is available to our communities. I’m proud to take a leading role on addressing this issue in Congress,” said Rep. John Katko. “The bipartisan, bicameral legislation that passed through the House today included provisions I authored to provide billions of dollars in new water infrastructure funding nationwide, which will prove critical as communities in Central New York work to update and maintain water systems.” Specifically, the provisions Katko authored: Authorize $10 million over two years, estimated to leverage over $1 billion to support thousands of vetted drinking water and wastewater State Revolving Fund projects. Ensure that small and middle-sized communities have greater access to this funding, not requiring these communities to pay the current $100,000 application fee. Streamline application processes to a maximum 180-day turnaround. Build upon and preserve the bipartisan Water Infrastructure Financing and Innovation Act (WIFIA),successful legislation that leveraged millions of dollars of investment into local water systems. Katko’s legislation combines the best aspects of the State Revolving Funds with the leveraging power of WIFIA to more efficiently and affordably provide states with access to new funding to make the desperately needed investments in drinking and wastewater infrastructure. Local leaders working on the front lines in the fight for clean water applauded Rep. Katko’s efforts: “The Skaneateles Lake Association (SLA), representing thousands of stakeholders in the Skaneateles Lake watershed, and I’m sure along with the hundreds of thousands in Syracuse & CNY that depend on the clear, pure, unfiltered drinking water the lake supplies, are excited and hopeful that this legislation introduced by our representative in Congress, Rep. John Katko will be signed into law,” said Paul Torrisi, President of the Skaneateles Lake Association. “It can ultimately help provide funding that will directly impact infrastructure in the Skaneateles Lake watershed by assisting local municipalities, homeowners, and farmers alike with the financial assistance to comply with optimal Best Management Practices (BMPs) to reduce nutrient runoff and pollution contributing to Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) that produce toxins in our drinking water.” Steve Lynch, Director of the Cayuga County Department of Planning and Economic Development and Chair of the Cayuga County Water Quality Management Agency stated, “Congressman Katko’s introduction of the SRF WIN Act to expand federal funding opportunities though State infrastructure finance authorities could be pivotal for our small communities struggling with costly upgrades to aging water systems. By expanding program eligibility, expediting reviews for critical projects and placing water infrastructure projects on a par with wastewater projects, the Bill could open doors for innovative projects that the current programs simply cannot address.” “Cayuga County knows all too well the dangers of Harmful Algal Blooms and invasive species on our waterways and drinking water,” said Ed Wagner, Owasco Supervisor and Chair of the Owasco Lake Watershed Management Council. “We’ve made significant investment in our water infrastructure, and the measure the House passed today includes important provisions championed by Rep. Katko which will make available critical funding to ensure every community throughout our region can deliver clean water for residents and businesses.” In addition to the provisions detailed above, WRDA makes investments to strengthen America’s harbors, ports, waterways, flood protection, and other vital water infrastructure.Rep. Katko has focused significantly in Congress on bolstering water infrastructure for Central New York and communities nationwide. He led efforts in the House to restore critical water infrastructure funding to the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (SRF) and led efforts by the bipartisan members of the Problem Solvers Caucus in authoring a bipartisan infrastructure report highlighting the importance of investing in infrastructure on a federal level. ###
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) this week was named a ‘Friend of Farm Bureau’ by the American Farm Bureau Federation for the 115th Congress. Congressman Katko stated, “I have always made it a priority to stand up for the vast community of farmers and growers in Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties. From dairy farms to apple farms to our local wineries, the men and women of our agricultural community make up a significant portion of our local economy and I am proud to fight on their behalf in Washington. I will continue to support policies that strengthen the ability of our agricultural community to prosper.” In announcing the honor, the American Farm Bureau Federation stated, “The American Farm Bureau Federation gives the Friend of Farm Bureau award to members of Congress who have supported Farm Bureau’s position on policy issues, as demonstrated by their voting records, and who were nominated by their respective state Farm Bureaus and approved by the AFBF Board of Directors.” Since coming to Congress, Rep. Katko has prioritized the needs of NY-24 farmers, meeting regularly with his Agricultural Advisory Board, which includes farmers, growers, and producers from all four counties of the district. Established in 1919, the American Farm Bureau Federation is an independent, non-governmental, voluntary organization governed by and representing farm and ranch families united for the purpose of analyzing their problems and formulating action to achieve educational improvement, economic opportunity and social advancement and, thereby, to promote the national well-being. Farm Bureau is local, county, state, national and international in its scope and influence and is non-partisan, non-sectarian and non-secret in character. Farm Bureau is the voice of agricultural producers at all levels. ###
09.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Together with a bipartisan group of colleagues, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today introduced the Protecting our Communities and Rights Act of 2018, legislation aimed at curbing gun violence. Rep. Katko was joined by Reps. Peterson, Cuellar, Diaz-Balart, David Young, Curtis and Comstock in introducing this bipartisan measure. Nationwide, some states have taken action to introduce “red flag laws,” which allow law enforcement to temporarily restrict access to firearms if individuals demonstrate “red flags” that they may be a danger to themselves or others. However, many of these measures, while well intentioned, overstep constitutional boundaries. Rep. Katko’s measure will empower states to intervene in a constitutional manner and provide real support to keep communities safe. Rep. Katko was motivated to introduce this legislation following instances detailed by City of Auburn Chief of Police Shawn Butler, in which the Auburn Police Department was unable to legally act to prevent an individual from potentially harming himself or others. “With gun violence continuing to plague our nation, our constituents have demanded action, and rightfully so," said Congressman Katko. “In Central New York, our law enforcement face a serious challenge when an individual exhibits warning signs that may escalate into tragedy. The bipartisan measure I’ve introduced today prioritizes the safety of our communities by giving local law enforcement the tools that they need to protect individuals who may be a danger to themselves or others, while ensuring constitutional due process rights are afforded.” City of Auburn Chief of Police Shawn Butler said, “I would first like to thank Congressman Katko for listening to the concerns of local law enforcement and understanding there is a loophole in our current system that needs to be closed. By sponsoring and hopefully passing this common sense legislation, it will give law enforcement another tool to hopefully prevent another senseless tragedy from occurring by giving police an avenue to petition the court for the removal of firearms from those exhibiting ‘red flag’ warning signs of potentially suicidal or other violent behavior often associated with behavioral health issues. Also, understanding that due process is a crucial component to this legislation ensures that the highest standards of proof are met prior to the removal of any such firearms possessed. The City of Auburn City Council has already taken the proactive step of enacting Council Resolution #49 of 2018, Supporting the enactment of ‘Red Flag’, ‘Extreme Risk Protection Order’ legislation allowing police authorities to seize firearms from individuals posing a risk imminent harm to themselves or others.” The Protecting our Communities and Rights Act empowers states to enact meaningful and constitutional mechanisms to protect individuals who may present a danger to themselves or others through the use of Extreme Risk Protection Orders (ERPO’s). The legislation gives priority for existing Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) grants if they enact ERPO legislation that includes the following provisions: Due Process: State may only deprive a person of a right to possess firearms after a hearing where the person has notice and is given an opportunity to participate. Clear and Convincing Evidence: Hearing must include a finding of dangerousness by a neutral decision-maker with an evidentiary standard consistent with deprivation of a constitutional right (by clear and convincing evidence). Ex-Parte Order: Limit any prohibition on an ex parte order to purchasing or receiving a firearm. ERPO Expiration: Provide for a clear expiration of the order no more than one year after the ERPO is issued, and require the same procedure to renew the order as initial issuance. In addition, provides a mechanism to expeditiously return firearms when the order expires or is terminated. Rep. Henry Cuellar (D, TX-28) said, “To reduce gun violence, we need to focus on addressing the root causes of these incidents without infringing on the constitutional rights of upstanding citizens. That is why I am a cosponsor of this bipartisan piece of legislation, which takes a commonsense approach to keeping guns out of the hands of people who should not have them. By incentivizing states to implement red flag gun laws through providing resources to our law enforcement, we are working to safeguard our constituents from unnecessary violence, while still respecting the rights of law-abiding Texans and Americans. I would like to thank Rep. Katko for spearheading this bill, and Reps. Peterson, Diaz-Balart, Young, Curtis and Comstock for their support.” “While I am a strong defender of the Second Amendment, I also strongly believe that we must do more to keep firearms out of the hands of violent individuals and the mentally ill,” said Rep. John Curtis (R, UT-03). “This common-sense bill puts in place a constitutional process, ensuring for due process, to protect our communities from individuals that pose an extreme risk to be a danger to themselves or others from obtaining or possessing a firearm.” "When we work together to find solutions to gun violence, we are able to get results that make a real difference. Earlier this year we passed The Fix NICS bill to improve the criminal background check system for gun purchases, The STOP School Violence Act to provide more money for school safety and violence prevention, and my Project Safe Neighborhoods legislation which funds programs to reduce crime in our communities. I appreciate the bipartisan work done on the Protecting our Communities and Rights Act to provide law enforcement or family members the option of obtaining a court order to prevent firearm purchases and possession by individuals who pose a significant threat to themselves or others while providing due process protections. Such “red flag” laws have been enacted in several states, from Indiana to Connecticut, and including most recently in Florida," said Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R, VA-10).Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R, FL-25) said, "I am proud to join my colleagues to introduce this legislation that will play a significant part in addressing senseless and random acts of violence. This bill gives law enforcement and family members with additional resources to keep firearms out of the hands of someone who is a risk to themselves or those around them, while also protecting civil liberties and providing due process. Florida is one of many states that has enacted a 'red flag' law, and provisions in this legislation encourage other states to follow suit. I am grateful to my colleagues for their bipartisan efforts in offering a sensible solution that will keep our homes and our communities safer." "This bill works to assist States in implementing common sense firearm legislation to protect citizens from individuals who pose a threat to themselves or others while protecting the rights of lawful gun owners,” Rep. Collin Peterson (D, MN-7) said. “I have been saying for a long time that any legislation like this must be done on a State-by-State basis." In the coming weeks, Rep. Katko will join Chief Butler and other local leaders to highlight the impact of this legislation for Central New York. ###
09.10.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today highlighted the important need for the House to prioritize the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), which is set to expire at the end of this month on September 30th. Katko, joined by 45 of his Republican colleagues, led a GOP letter urging Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy to pass a bipartisan measure to reauthorize this important legislation. “I have been, and will continue to be, a strong supporter of funding initiatives to assist victims of sexual assault and domestic violence. The reauthorization of VAWA should not be a partisan issue – it should be a bipartisan priority,” said Rep. John Katko. “That’s why I’ve led Republican efforts urging leadership to swiftly take up the reauthorization of VAWA. VAWA authorizes grants which have a tremendous impact in Central New York and across the nation. We must work across the aisle to reauthorize this important measure so we can continue to save lives, protect children, and prevent future victims of domestic and sexual violence.” “We are very grateful to Congressman Katko for his active role in pursuing the reauthorization of VAWA," said Randi Bregman, Executive Director of Vera House, Inc. "When we reached out to the Congressman on this issue, he and his staff were eager to work with us and representatives of national advocacy groups to ensure this essential legislation received the bipartisan support it deserves and has had historically. We are hopeful that the Congressman’s efforts will help lead to passage of a comprehensive reauthorization before the current VAWA expiration at the end of this month.” The National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence issued the following statement, "We applaud the spirit of bipartisanship reflected in this letter and the recognition of the great strides we have made in combating domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking in this country, due in large part to the Violence Against Women Act. We also applaud the commitment of the signatories to a VAWA reauthorization that makes meaningful improvements to ensure all victims and survivors have access to the safety, security, and services they need and deserve." The text of the letter can be found here and below: September 7, 2018 The Honorable Paul D. Ryan The Honorable Kevin McCarthySpeaker of the House Majority LeaderUnited States House of Representatives United States House of RepresentativesH-232, The Capitol H-107 The CapitolWashington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McCarthy: As you know, on September 30th the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) is set to expire, leaving us only 7 legislative days to prevent a lapse in authorization. We therefore write to urge you to advance a bipartisan reauthorization of VAWA without delay. Since being signed into law in 1994, VAWA has helped to protect and support millions of Americans who have faced domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. This landmark legislation has drastically improved our nation’s response to these crimes and has contributed to the overall declining rates of domestic abuse since its enactment. However, instances of violence are still very common. According to the Centers for Disease Control, in our country, about 1 in 3 women and 1 in 6 men experience some form of contact sexual violence during their lifetime. Programs authorized and funded under VAWA work to protect girls, boys, men, and women from these terrible crimes. The programs provide funding to ensure safety and support for survivors, increase prevention efforts, expand educational awareness surrounding domestic violence and sexual assault, implement training for health professionals and law enforcement, and to coordinate responses across agencies. We have all seen the positive impact of these programs in our districts and have met individuals in our communities who have benefited from the protections this law provides. This is not a partisan issue. VAWA has been continually reauthorized on a bipartisan basis in Congress. We must act now to maintain and strengthen this critical law. We urge expeditious reauthorization of VAWA and thank you for your attention to this important issue. ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) penned the following bipartisan op-ed, published in The Hill, with Rep. Josh Gottheimer (D, NJ-5) on the need for bipartisan support to delay the Health Insurance Tax (HIT). Reps. Katko & Gottheimer: 50 million daily reasons for delaying the Health Insurance Tax The Hill September 5, 2018 Imagine being charged nearly $50 million a day in taxes. This is exactly what will happen to American businesses and consumers in 2020 if Congress does not act once again to delay the Health Insurance Tax (HIT) this year. The HIT was initially included in the Affordable Care Act (ACA); it is essentially a sales tax on health insurance coverage that would hit employers and consumers with higher premiums. Smartly, Congress has enacted a common sense, bipartisan delay of this tax in recent years. No one should have to worry about getting health care for family members with a preexisting condition. But, it is important to recognize that simply increasing taxes does nothing to improve the overall health care system or address the increasing costs of care. It only adds to the already high cost of care – in this instance, on the backs of employers, families and seniors. We are particularly concerned about the potential impact of this tax on small businesses in our districts and across the country. We hear from our constituents daily about the serious responsibility (and increasing burden) of providing health care for the talented people they employ. But the cost of health care is a reality that impacts the bottom line of every company. These hard-working Americans understand first-hand that increasing the cost of health care makes it far more difficult to hire additional people, reward dedicated employees, bid on multi-year contracts, and make investments needed to expand businesses. Research shows that businesses of all sizes are impacted disproportionately by this tax. Employers, individuals, and families purchasing coverage on their own bear 60 percent the burden. This is a real hit on millions of hard-working Americans. Without action this year, this will have a significant effect on the national economy, including stifled job creation and hundreds of thousands of jobs lost. Seniors are also among the most impacted, with 25 percent of the tax falling on Medicare Advantage and Part D plans. That works out to an additional $350 in premium costs per year for Medicare Advantage members and beneficiaries. Congress was able to take bipartisan action to delay the HIT for 2019. But with health plans beginning to set rates for 2020 premiums in coming months, the time to act for 2020 is now. That’s why we are proud to sponsor along with a bipartisan group of our colleagues, H.R. 5963, which would delay the HIT for 2020. America can’t afford $50 million per day for health care. Instead, we should be working together to reduce health care costs and increase coverage options so that more families and small businesses can thrive. Taxing health care premiums and sticking our country’s small businesses and seniors with the bill is not the answer. Congress must act now so employers, families and seniors are not hit with this harmful tax. Gottheimer represents North Jersey’s 5th District and serves as Co-Chair of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus. Katko represents the 24th District of New York and serves as a member of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus. ###
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Yesterday evening the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) to secure the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) PreCheck Program and ensure the safety of the traveling public. Congressman John Katko chairs the House Homeland Security Committee Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee, which has oversight of TSA. The PreCheck is PreCheck Act of 2018 (H.R. 6265) is bipartisan legislation which will ensure that only travelers who have undergone the necessary background and security check are able to use the TSA PreCheck screening lanes at airports nationwide. “Expedited screening through the TSA PreCheck Program allows travelers who have been pre-screened to move through security checkpoints more quickly,” said Rep. Katko. “However, when airport passenger volumes climb, the TSA has routinely allowed travelers who are not members of the PreCheck program to use expedited lanes. Doing so opens up our airports and airlines to vulnerabilities and risks the safety of the traveling public. Rather than moving unscreened passengers through expedited screening lanes, this measure will ensure that the TSA enhances its enrollment processes and develops alternative methods to manage checkpoint wait times.” Katko’s bill also directs the TSA to conduct a pilot of “risk modified screening” for low-risk passengers. If successful, this program would allow TSA to increase throughput at checkpoints while mitigating some of the vulnerabilities that currently exist. The bill also requires TSA to take marked steps to increase PreCheck enrollment, for example, by partnering with airlines to enhance marketing, improving enrollment flexibility, and making PreCheck enrollment centers more accessible to travelers.
08.24.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he will host a public forum next week in Cayuga County focused on the pressing infrastructure needs of NY-24. The event will be held Thursday, August 30th at 6:00 p.m. in the Student Lounge at Cayuga Community College. Like past community forums, Rep. Katko will be joined for the event by a panel of local experts to help answer questions and foster an informative discussion. “In Central New York, and communities nationwide, our infrastructure is crumbling. Roads, bridges, and ports have fallen into disrepair. Here in our community, we know all too well the dangers of toxins on our water sources,” said Rep. John Katko. “That’s why, in Congress, I’ve worked across the aisle to prioritize an investment in infrastructure, and led a bipartisan effort within the Problem Solvers Caucus to produce a comprehensive report detailing areas in which we can begin to work together to streamline processes and provide sustainable funding solutions so communities can plan for the long-term. I look forward to discussing the pressing infrastructure needs facing our community at this forum next week.” The event will be Katko’s eleventh public forum since taking office in 2015, and is free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Time will be allotted for questions. Details are as Follows:A Discussion on Infrastructure Thursday, August 30 at 6:00 p.m. Cayuga Community College, Student Lounge 197 Franklin Street Auburn, New York 13021 Thursday’s Listening Session will be moderated by Town of Owasco Supervisor Ed Wagner. Panelists will include: City of Auburn Mayor Michael Quill Seth Jensen, Director of Municipal Utilities for the City of AuburnRick Lee, CEO, Central New York Regional Transportation Authority (Centro)Randy Wolken, President & CEO, The Manufacturers Association of Central New YorkDeb Warner, Vice President, Public Policy & Government Relations, CenterState CEO A representative from the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development Greg Lancette, Central New York Building & Construction Trades Council ###
08.16.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he will host a public forum this month focused on assisting veterans in Wayne County. The event will be held Wednesday, August 22 at 6:30 p.m. in the community room at the Wayne County Public Safety Building. Like past community forums, Rep. Katko will be joined for the event by a panel of local experts to help answer questions and foster an informative discussion. “Throughout my time serving Central New York in Congress, I’ve found these listening sessions extremely helpful in working to address issues facing our community,” said Rep. John Katko. “Our veterans have put their lives on the line to defend our freedom and our democracy. Wayne County is home to thousands of men and women who have served our great nation, and I’m committed to ensuring these individuals and their families have access to the highest quality of care and services. This forum will connect our local veterans and their families with the VA and other local groups that support veterans. I look forward to a robust discussion at next week’s forum.” The event will be Katko’s tenth public forum since 2015, and is free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Time will be allotted for questions. Details are as follows: Assisting Wayne County VeteransWednesday, August 22 at 6:30 p.m. Wayne County Public Safety Building Community Room, Wayne County Public Safety Building 7376 State Route 31 Lyons, New York 14489 Wednesday’s listening session will be moderated by Wayne County Clerk Mike Jankowski. Panelists will include representatives from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Wayne County Veterans Services, Clear Path for Veterans, and Solider On. ###
08.14.2018	SYRACUSE, NY -- During a visit today to the Boys & Girls Clubs of Syracuse, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) pushed for reforms to the Summer Nutrition Program, highlighting his support of The Summer Meals Act, bipartisan legislation he has cosponsored to allow a greater number of community-based organizations to distribute meals to at-risk children. Summer Nutrition Programs provide federal funding to serve nutritious meals and snacks during summer break when low-income children lose access to free and reduced-price school meals. Meals are generally served at sites located in low-income areas – such as the Boys & Girls Clubs of Syracuse – which also offer learning, enrichment and recreational activities for children. The Boys & Girls Clubs of Syracuse, in conjunction with the Syracuse City School District, provides over 200 meals per day to local children in need. It is one of several summer meal distribution sites in NY-24 that works with in conjunction with the Syracuse City School District and the Food Bank of Central New York to supply meals to children in need. However, these programs are often difficult to administer due to inadequate transportation services and burdensome administrative rules. “For far too many children in our community, the only nutritious meal that they receive is at school. This means that during the summer months, these children may go without healthy meals,” said Rep. John Katko. “Childhood hunger and malnourishment have lasting impacts on a child’s health, education outcomes, and future competitiveness in the workforce. In Congress, I’ve stood up for programs like SNAP, which help to eliminate childhood hunger, and I’ve been a steadfast supporter of the Summer Meals Act to strengthen, protect, and ensure access to the Summer Nutrition Programs.” The Summer Meals Act would reform current law to ensure that summer food service programs for children may operate efficiently and in areas of the country with the greatest need. Current law requires that 50% of children in the area must be eligible for free or reduced price school meals. This high threshold keeps many communities with significant numbers of low-income children, but not a high enough concentration of poverty, from participating. The Summer Meals Act would change that threshold to require only 40% of children be eligible. The 40% threshold is consistent with other federally funded summer programs, such the 21st Century Community Learning Center programs and Title I. Representative Katko is one of two Republican cosponsors of the bipartisan legislation. Additionally, the legislation would: Allow local government agencies and private nonprofit organizations to feed children year-round through the Summer Food Service Program. Currently, sponsors must apply to and operate both the Summer Food Service Program and the Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) in order to feed children—often the same children—after school and during the summer. This creates duplicative paperwork and confusing administrative rules that discourage participation. Provide funding for transportation grants to fund innovative approaches and mobile meal trucks. Transportation is one of the biggest barriers to participation, and these grants would increase low-income children’s access to summer meals in rural and other under-served areas. Allow all sites to serve a third meal. Many summer meal sites provide child care to working parents and run all day, but most sites are only able to serve a maximum of two meals. This leaves children without enough nutrition to get through the day or forces sites to use program dollars for food. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
07.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) recently introduced bipartisan legislation to address a critical shortage in the number of mental healthcare professionals currently available in many parts of the country. Together, Reps. Katko and Napolitano chair the bipartisan Mental Health Caucus in Congress. Their bill, H.R. 6597, The Mental Health Professionals Workforce Shortage Loan Repayment Act of 2018, would authorize a loan repayment program for mental health professionals who work for a period of time in an area of the country experiencing a shortage of accessible care. “This bipartisan legislation will incentivize students and professionals pursuing careers in mental healthcare to work in areas of our country desperately in need of more options for care,” said Rep. Katko. “It will go a long way towards addressing the current critical shortage in the workforce and ensure more people nationwide struggling with mental illness have access to the care they need.” “Our bill offers future mental health professionals and clinicians the prospect of having their educational loans forgiven by providing vital services to our communities upon graduation, affording them the same opportunities as those in other medical fields,” said Rep. Napolitano. “It is time we had robust investment in mental health in America, and it starts with ensuring we have a reliable workforce to be able to deliver life-saving services to all in need.” Arthur C. Evans Jr., PhD, CEO of the American Psychological Association stated, “The American Psychological Association commends Reps. Katko and Napolitano for introducing this critically needed legislation to help expand access to mental health services for the 105.7 million Americans living in mental health shortage areas with limited access to mental health care. With the supply of psychologists projected to be insufficient to meet the growing demand for mental health services, additional federal support for psychology workforce programs is needed to close this critical gap. As psychologists graduate with increasing levels of student debt, this legislation will reduce barriers to treatment for those in need and reduce obstacles for psychologists and other mental health professionals seeking to work in high-need communities.” “The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention thanks Reps. John Katko and Grace Napolitano for being true champions of suicide prevention and access to mental health services,” said John H. Madigan Jr., Senior Vice President and Chief Public Policy Officer for the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention/SPAN USA. “This legislation will deal with two key challenges – the shortage of trained mental health professionals and the cost of getting mental health education and training. One of the best ways to prevent suicide is to make mental health services accessible to all who need them wherever they live or work. An expanded mental health treatment workforce will go a long way in dealing effectively with the current suicide crisis in our country.” The American Association of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) released a statement in support of the legislation stating, “With a shortage of over 20,000 child and adolescent psychiatrists nationwide, we know that this crucial legislation will make a tremendous difference in addressing our nations’ mental health workforce crisis and help provide needed mental health services to countless youth.” “This type of legislation is sorely needed and would help in our mission to treat those with psychiatric problems,” said Thomas Schwartz, M.D., Senior Associate Dean of Education, Interim Chair and Professor of Psychiatry at SUNY Upstate Medical University. “For example, we have immense shortages of clinicians available to treat those suffering from addiction, depression, suicidality - all of which are epidemic and affecting individuals, families, our workforces, our communities and our country. We need more providers to help our mission to lower the burden and suffering of mental illness in the US. This plan would help.” “We in the Central New York Chapter applaud Representatives Katko and Napolitano for their work on this legislation. Our nation faces a shortage of health care clinicians, especially those who provide services to people with mental health needs. This proposed legislation will address this shortage in a unique and innovative way. Leaders like Katko and Napolitano are taking action to address a need that is critically important to their constituents and to Americans everywhere,” said Missy Stolfi, Area Director for the Western & Central New York Chapter of the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement: “I strongly object to the action taken by members of the House Freedom Caucus to impeach Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. Removal of a high-ranking federal law enforcement official requires an extraordinary level of improper conduct, a high standard which most certainly has not been met. I remain steadfast in my support for the Mueller investigation and believe it must continue to run its course without impediment. “This is a clear exercise in obstruction by members seeking to advance divisive and unproductive rhetoric. It distracts from the efforts of other members, from both sides of the aisle, devoted to working to advance constructive reforms through Congress. My constituents send me to Washington to fight for local priorities, and despite these disruptive efforts today, I remain committed to doing just that.”
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement: “I want to be completely clear: I trust the unanimous conclusion of our nation’s intelligence agencies that Russia conducted an aggressive hacking and disinformation campaign in the United States. The President should clearly and firmly stand behind our intelligence agencies, and he should have used this summit as an opportunity to confront President Putin over Russia’s aggressive actions in the U.S. and around the world. There is no excuse for his failure to do so.”
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Following news this week that at least 50 people in Syracuse have overdosed on synthetic drugs, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) has called on the U.S. Senate to act swiftly in taking up the Stop the Importation of Synthetic Drug the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues (SITSA) Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation that he introduced and passed through the House to address the synthetic drug crisis. Toxic, synthetic drugs are designed to mimic street drugs like marijuana, LSD, cocaine, ecstasy and other hard drugs. They can be more potent than the real thing and often times are more deadly. Currently, when law enforcement encounters and begins to combat a specific synthetic drug compound, manufacturers of these substances are able to quickly and slightly alter the chemical structure of the drug. This puts law enforcement at a serious disadvantage, and they are constantly left one-step behind. Rep. Katko’s legislation will help to stop the unlawful importation and distribution of synthetic drugs by giving law enforcement the effective tools they need to crack down on these substances. His bill modernizes the Controlled Substances Act and provides a mechanism by which synthetic analogues can be temporarily or permanently added to the Schedule A by the Attorney General. “It is clear that we need immediate action to end the synthetic drug crisis plaguing our community,” said Rep. Katko. “Our law enforcement must be given the tools they need to ban these substances as soon as they start appearing on our streets. We cannot allow the surge in synthetic drug overdoses that we saw in Syracuse this week become the new normal, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act on this bipartisan measure so that we can combat the frightening rise of synthetic substances across our nation.” Last month, the House passed the landmark SITSA Act, a bill largely inspired by the advocacy of Oswego mother, Teresa Woolson, who lost her son Victor in 2012 when he drowned after using synthetic drugs that he purchased legally in a head shop in Oswego. Since Victor’s death, Teresa has been a tremendous local and national advocate in the fight to outlaw synthetic drugs. Katko’s bill has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by a bipartisan group of lawmakers, Sens. Grassley (R-IA), Feinstein (D-CA), Johnson (R-WI), and Klobuchar (D-MN). ###
07.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. —The U.S. House of Representatives yesterday evening unanimously passed the bipartisan Transportation Worker Identification Credential Accountability Act of 2018, introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24). The bill marks the 15th bipartisan measure Rep. Katko has passed through the House this term, and the 30th bill passed since he was sworn in to represent Central New York in Congress in 2015. The bill provides necessary relief to transportation stakeholders who have suffered under the opaque and unresponsive rulemaking processes of the Department of Homeland Security. Specifically, the bill addresses concerns expressed by many industry stakeholders over the pending implementation of a biometric reader requirement for Transportation Worker Identification Credentials (TWIC) card holders at high-risk ports. The TWIC program was established after 9/11 to improve security at high-risk ports. However, since its inception, DHS has failed to issue timely implementation guidance in advance of this rulemaking, leaving stakeholders unsure as to how and where to direct resources for compliance. Rep. Katko’s bipartisan bill will delay the implementation of the “reader rule” until an ongoing study on the effectiveness of the TWIC program is complete. “Nationwide, thousands of individuals are employed by countless industries that support our nation’s infrastructure. For several months, many of these industries have awaited guidance from DHS regarding implementation of the TWIC ‘reader rule.’ Yet, as the upcoming August 23rd deadline approaches for compliance with this program, it has become nearly impossible for industries to move forward without guidance from DHS,” said Rep. Katko. “The bipartisan measure passed through the House yesterday evening will ensure greater transparency from DHS and enable a more responsive and collaborative process in implementing any future rule.” Majority Whip Steve Scalise stated, “I applaud Rep. Katko for introducing the Transportation Worker Identification Credential Accountability Act of 2018 and for his hard work in its successful passage on the House floor. For years, the TWIC program has been plagued with red tape and burdensome requirements, which bog down efficiency on our waterways. I have been a strong champion of reforming the TWIC program, and know that Congressman Katko’s bill is a commonsense approach to preventing further onerous regulations under the TWIC program, while allowing proper oversight of the Coast Guard’s rulemaking process. I applaud Rep. Katko on passing this important piece of legislation and on his record of passing 30 similarly strong bills over the past two Congresses.” Katko’s legislation received the support of several organizations which would be burdened by implementation of this rule, including the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers, the American Chemistry Council, the American Petroleum Institute, the International Liquid Terminals Association, the Louisiana Chemical Association, the National Association of Manufacturers and the National Tank Truck Carriers. Rep. Katko continued, “I’m proud to have passed my 30th bipartisan bill through the House. In a time of gridlock in Washington, I’ve consistently worked across the aisle to be an independent and productive Member and to deliver results.” ###
07.06.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – Following the unexpected collapse of a portion of a railroad bridge in downtown Syracuse yesterday, U.S. Rep John Katko (NY-24) has called on the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) to answer several questions regarding the maintenance of the bridge and railway. “We are extremely lucky that yesterday’s railroad bridge collapse did not injure any pedestrians or drivers traveling through this heavily trafficked section of downtown Syracuse,” said Rep. Katko. “As my office has worked over the past 24 hours with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) to assist in determining the cause and damage from yesterday’s collapse, a number of questions have arisen about the overall maintenance and care of this structure, and similarly-aged bridges and railways throughout NY-24. As such, I’ve called on the FRA to address these concerns. There’s no question that we must invest in our region’s aging infrastructure, and yesterday’s collapse makes clear that we must do more to keep travelers and pedestrians safe.” Rep. Katko’s office has worked as a liaison between the City of Syracuse and the FRA. With a regional inspector onsite in Central New York today, the FRA will conduct a bridge inspection and provide a report detailing the current state of the railway track and bridge. The text of Rep. Katko’s letter can be found below: July 6, 2018 The Honorable Ronald Batory Administrator Federal Railroad Administration 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Administrator Batory, As you are likely aware, at 1:04 p.m. on July 5th, 2018, a portion of a railroad bridge collapsed onto a busy and commercial street in my district in downtown Syracuse, NY. Luckily, no one was injured; however, the consequences could have been disastrous. While your office has been extremely accommodating in sharing information and working with my office and the Office of the Mayor of the City of Syracuse, I am concerned by the lack of maintenance and inspection of this bridge. As such, I have follow up questions as to the role the FRA plays in examining structurally deficient bridges and what can be done to prevent disasters like this from occurring in the future. Specifically: 1.) When was the last time the bridge along South Clinton Street at West Onondaga Street and Gifford Street in Syracuse, NY was inspected? 2.) It is my understanding that the FRA conducts random inspections of bridges under its jurisdiction. How are such bridges chosen for inspection? 3.) How many inspectors does the FRA have on staff? 4.) What action does the FRA take when an inspector finds a bridge to be structurally deficient? 5.) Are there any constraints facing the FRA in ensuring that the most deficient bridges are inspected? I appreciate your cooperation and timely response. Disasters like this are a staunch reminder that our roads and bridges need improvement. Even during tight financial constraints, I hope we can work together to prioritize infrastructure spending and mitigate future disasters. This is the greatest country in the world and it is time that our infrastructure reflects that. Sincerely, John Katko Member of Congress ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement regarding the compromise immigration bill, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act. "I am deeply disappointed we were not able to move forward the compromise immigration bill before the House today. This measure took steps forward to fix our current, broken immigration system by keeping families together, enhancing border security, and providing status for Dreamers. "Despite today’s result in Congress, I remain steadfast in my commitment to deliver immigration reform. I believe that must be done in a bipartisan manner, and I will continue to work with lawmakers from both parties to find a workable and comprehensive solution to this issue."
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. —The U.S. House of Representatives this evening passed two bipartisan measures introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24). H.R. 5081, the Surface Transportation and Technology Accountability Act, and H.R. 5730, the Transportation Security Technology Innovation Reform Act, both passed the House with unanimous bipartisan support. The bills are the 13th and 14th bipartisan measures Katko has moved through the House this Congress. During the time Rep. Katko has served Central New York in Washington, he has consistently been ranked one of the most productive members from either side of the aisle. "As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation & Protective Security Subcommittee, I’ve worked to enhance accountability and transparency within the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) so that this agency is able to adapt and address evolving threats,” said Rep. John Katko. “The bipartisan measures passed by the House today work towards these goals and will help ensure our country’s transportation systems are safer and modernized to function in the present threat landscape.”Specifically: The Surface Transportation and Technology Accountability Act will bring in outside expertise in an advisory role to create better strategies for TSA to improve long-term acquisition processes. This bill opens lines of communication between the public and stakeholders across the surface transportation sector, and creates a Surface Transportation Security Advisory Committee to better protect surface modes of transportation. The Committee will be comprised of surface transportation stakeholders to help ensure TSA takes a holistic approach when dealing with a broad array of threats. The Transportation Security Technology Innovation Reform Act addresses growing criticism of the lack of cogent and transparent acquisition processes within the TSA by codifying the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Systems Integration Facility (TSIF) to test and evaluate advanced transportation security screening technologies. Currently, bureaucratic hindrances and limited capacity create a large backlog of untested technologies. This measure encourages careful collaboration between industry and the TSA and will improve testing and evaluation of the newest screening technologies. ###
06.21.2018	Bill Creates New Cyber Competition to Identify and Understand Election Interference Threats WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representatives Mike Quigley (IL-05) and John Katko (NY-24) introduced the bipartisan Prevent Election Hacking Act of 2018 to help combat the threat of election hacking. The legislation will create a competition, commonly known as a bug bounty program, that rewards cyber experts that are able to identify vulnerabilities in our election infrastructure. “As we saw in the last election cycle, our adversaries are committed to interfering in our nation’s democratic process,” said Rep. Katko. “This is a grave threat to our country and our nation’s security. Our voting systems remain vulnerable to hacking, and we must do more to protect against cyber aggression. This is an issue we must work across the aisle to address, and I’m proud to take the lead with my colleague Rep. Quigley. The bipartisan measure we’ve introduced today will help ensure our nation’s foremost experts on cybersecurity have the tools that they need to identify and combat malicious cyberattacks against our democracy.” “Our foreign adversaries don’t have to hack into every single board of election to undermine our democratic process; it just takes a couple to achieve their goal of eroding public trust in our electoral system,” said Rep Quigley.” Unfortunately, many state and local election boards don’t even know when they’ve been hacked—either because they don’t know what to look for or don’t have the technology needed to help spot an intrusion. That is why we must continue to better understand the vulnerabilities that exist so we can implement infrastructure upgrades that address them head on. This important bill will enlist the unique knowledge of cybersecurity experts to safeguard the foundation of our democracy—the right to free and fair elections. The Intelligence Community has determined that at least twenty-one state election systems were targeted in the lead-up to the 2016 elections. While there was no evidence of Russia tampering with the vote count process, that does not mean Russia or another adversary will not try to attack us again in upcoming elections. Voting machines and election databases across the country remain woefully outdated and highly susceptible to outside interference. In fact, an estimated 41 states still use voting machines that have not been replaced in over a decade and thirteen states continue to use machines that fail to produce the paper ballots or records necessary to perform audits. By allowing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to establish a recurring “Hack the Election” competition, we can give independent cyber experts the opportunity to assist participating state and local election officials, who often times lack the necessary cybersecurity training and guidance to prevent hacking attempts, uncover both new and existing threats to their systems. With these vulnerabilities detected by outside experts, DHS can focus its resources on providing election officials with the technical assistance needed to bolster their cybersecurity defenses. Each year, DefCon organizes a hacking conference designed to educate the computer security community about potential weaknesses of the voting systems used in U.S. elections and get them involved in fixing them. It took last year’s attendees less than a day to find and exploit vulnerabilities in five different voting machine types. This bill builds on that model. ###
06.18.2018	SYRACUSE, NY — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding family separations at the U.S.-Mexico border: “We must keep our borders secure, however, we must do so in a humane way that preserves family unity and keeps young children safe. I urge the Administration to prioritize these principles in enforcing the laws of this country. “Congress must also continue to work towards a permanent legislative solution to fix our nation’s broken immigration system. Over the past several weeks, I have been a key negotiator on a compromise bill which emphasizes keeping families together, enhances border security and provides status for Dreamers. I’m hopeful that we can pass this measure through the House this week.” ###
06.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — In a bipartisan vote this morning, the U.S. House of Representatives passed historic legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) to address the heroin and synthetic drug epidemic plaguing Central New York and communities nationwide. The bipartisan bill, the Stop the Importation of Synthetic Drug the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues (SITSA) Act of 2017 was authored and introduced by Katko last year in response to a surge in synthetic drug overdoses in Central New York. Toxic, synthetic drugs are designed to mimic street drugs like marijuana, LSD, cocaine, ecstasy and other hard drugs. They can be more potent than the real thing and often times are more deadly. Unfortunately, when law enforcement encounters and begins to combat a specific synthetic drug compound, manufacturers of these substances are able to slightly alter the chemical structure of the drug. This puts law enforcement at a serious disadvantage, leaving them constantly one step behind. Rep. Katko’s legislation will help to stop the unlawful importation and distribution of synthetic drugs by giving law enforcement the effective tools they need to crack down on these substances. The bill modernizes the Controlled Substances Act and provides a mechanism by which synthetic analogues can be temporarily or permanently added to the Schedule A by the Attorney General. This will allow scientific and research communities to develop information on these newly-invented substances. The bill was largely inspired by the advocacy of Oswego mother, Teresa Woolson, who lost her son Victor in 2012 when he drowned after using synthetic drugs that he purchased legally in a head shop in Oswego. Since Victor’s death, Teresa has been a tremendous local and national advocate in the fight to outlaw synthetic drugs. Following passage today, Teresa Woolson stated, “I’m very excited about the passage of the SITSA Act. Since the death of my son Victor almost 6 years ago, I have been educating and advocating about Synthetic Drugs through the non-profit I formed and named in his honor, the Victor Orlando Woolson Foundation, Inc. (VOW Foundation). Victor died from a synthetic drug identified as XLR-11 and it took several years for this deadly drug to be placed on the controlled substance list. The SITSA Act has several components that will help save lives, including a measure that will allow the temporary scheduling of an identified deadly drug. I continue to applaud Congressman John Katko for his diligent efforts on this very important subject. This is what I have been fighting for many years for and couldn’t be more pleased with this outcome. Congressman Katko is not only a great representative in Washington, but his knowledge, expertise and compassion are truly appreciated.” Speaking on the floor of the House this morning in support of the bill, Rep. Katko stated, “Synthetic drug abuse has crippled my community and the communities of many other Members in this chamber. Last year, Syracuse area hospitals saw a record number of overdoses due to synthetic drug abuse. In May of last year, over 15 individuals had overdosed on synthetic drugs and were taken to the ER in the span of 24 hours. Unfortunately, stories like this have become the new normal.” He continued, “The potency and danger of synthetic drugs do not only threaten users, we are now seeing local law enforcement and first responders put in harm’s way simply by coming in contact with these often lethal substances. Numerous cases across the country have resulted in emergency personnel becoming gravely ill and even dying while responding synthetic overdoses. The threats synthetic drugs pose to our communities and law enforcement must be stopped. H.R. 2851 takes a big step towards eradicating these harmful substances and protecting our communities. The bipartisan SITSA Act will give local, state, and federal law enforcement the necessary tools to target synthetic substances and the criminals who traffic them. Earlier this year, City of Syracuse Police Chief Frank Fowler testified before the House Energy & Commerce Committee to detail the impact of the synthetic drug epidemic in Syracuse and Central New York. Chief Fowler stated today, “The City of Syracuse has been greatly affected by the influx of synthetic opioids and other synthetic drugs. Earlier this year, I was honored to testify before the House Energy & Commerce Committee about how the SITSA Act will help local law enforcement. This legislation would establish tougher restrictions and penalties to those responsible for bringing these substances into our community. We will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to target the criminals responsible for trafficking these substances in hopes of making our community a safer place.” Finally, Rep. Katko has worked alongside local healthcare providers on the front lines each day in addressing this epidemic. As a result, the bill earned the support of healthcare providers and first responders. “Crouse Health applauds and thanks Congressman Katko and the co-sponsors of the SITSA Act legislation,” stated Monika Taylor, Director of Behavioral Health Services for Crouse Health in Syracuse. “Being on the front lines of the drug epidemic in Central New York, we see the terrible, tragic toll these synthetic opioids take every day, not only on the users, but also their families, friends, employers and the entire community. Swifter action to halt unlawful importation and distribution of these synthetic drugs is desperately needed if we are to save lives and this legislation is key to making that happen.” Specifically the SITSA Act: Modernizes the Controlled Substances Act by adding Schedule A to the existing 5 schedules. It provides a mechanism by which synthetic analogues can be temporarily or permanently added to the Schedule A by the Attorney General. This will allow scientific and research communities to develop information on these newly-invented substances. Specifically omits federal simple possession of a synthetic drug from the reach of the bill. Adds to current law an offense for false labeling of controlled substance analogues.
06.14.2018	Trade Policy Could Devastate Newspaper Industry, Eliminate U.S. Jobs & Reduce Public Access to Local News WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressmembers John Katko (NY-24), Brian Higgins (NY-26), Elise Stefanik (NY-21), John Faso (NY-19), and Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) led a letter to Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and International Trade Commission (ITC) Chairman Rhonda Schmidtlein urging reconsideration of the tariffs on Canadian uncoated groundwood paper (UGW), used as newsprint, which will have a severe impact on local newspapers. Members sent the bipartisan letter to voice their concerns about the tariffs, imposed in January and increased in March, which reach as high as 32 percent. In the letter, the Representatives state: “Over the past decade, there has been an industry wide shift toward digital media from newsprint. The petitioner’s claim that the decline in demand for US newsprint is a result of imported Canadian newsprint rings hollow in light of the reality of an industry trying to adapt to a changing market in a digital age. As an industry that is already confronting a decline in newspaper circulation, readership and print advertising due to increased internet competition an affirmative final determination from the International Trade Commission has the potential to destabilize the industry and accelerate the decline of print news media.” The letter goes on to express concern about the effects tariffs will have on smaller local and regional publications that may not have the scale to weather tariffs of this kind. Local journalism is integral in keeping citizens engaged in their communities and is sometimes one of the only ways to access information about local government, economy, and community activities. Stop Tariffs on Printers & Publishers, a group consisting of American printers, publishers, paper suppliers and distributors, representing over 600,000 American workers, is also calling attention to the negative impact the tariffs will have on their 66 member organizations. Currently, the tariffs are not permanent, and the ITC’s investigation is ongoing, with final determinations expected to be made later this year. Read the full text of the letter here. ###
06.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today to honor the lives of Morgan Brittany Axe, who died from a heroin overdose, and Victor Orlando Woolson, who drowned after using the synthetic drug fentanyl. This week and next week, the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on numerous pieces of legislation that offer solutions to the opioid and synthetic drug epidemic that has plagued Central New York and communities nationwide. Video of Representative Katko’s can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today, as the House considers legislation to address the heroin and synthetic drug epidemic plaguing our country, to honor the memories of two young people from my district. Morgan Brittany Axe, who died from a heroin overdose more than two and a half years ago, and Victor Orlando Woolson, who drowned after using synthetic drugs almost six years ago. Morgan and Victor were both active members of our community, and touched the lives of every person they interacted with. Before she passed away, Morgan worked at the DeWitt Animal Hospital and treated sick and injured animals on a daily basis. Victor was a high achieving graduate of Mexico High School and was enrolled in Cayuga Community College, where he studied criminal justice and psychology. Drug addiction is a terrible disease. Morgan became addicted to Xanax after the suicide of her boyfriend. She was just 17 years old. Morgan became dependent on Xanax and needed it to function on a daily basis. She then progressed to other pills in order to numb her pain. After a long battle with heroin and prescription painkillers, Morgan found sobriety for eight months and was on the drug Vivitrol. Vivitrol makes it impossible for addicts to get high on heroin or painkillers. After she found out that she was pregnant, Morgan went off Vivitrol because she did not want it to harm her child. Unfortunately, post-acute withdrawal set in, and Morgan relapsed. Morgan did not have to drive to a drug house on Syracuse's West Side to buy the bag of heroin that killed her. Instead, a career drug dealer delivered it her house in Fairmount. After doing one bag of the heroin, Deanna Axe found her daughter lifeless in her bedroom. Morgan overdosed and died and her unborn child, Isaiah Douglas Lee Mathis, died with her. Morgan’s drug dealer, Anthony Vita, was federally prosecuted and is now in prison for the next 15 years, however, Vita in prison will not bring Morgan back. Victor was your average happy-go-lucky teenager who had many friends. He was not only a loyal friend, but a loving brother, uncle, and grandson. Victor graduated Mexico High School with an Advanced Regents Diploma and had 4 years in the Marine Core Jr. R.O.T.C. In college, Victor was contemplating a career in law enforcement. While attending Cayuga Community College, Victor began experimenting with synthetic drugs that he was able to purchase legally. Because he could buy these substances over the counter, Victor assumed these illicit substances were safe. But at the young age of 19, Victor suffered from a fatal reaction to synthetic marijuana also known as K2/Spice and drowned in Lake Ontario. After Victor’s tragic death, his mother, Teresa, channeled her sadness and anger indo advocacy, and founded the Victor Orlando Woolson Foundation (V.O.W. Foundation), which advocates for stronger legislation against synthetic drugs and assists individuals and organizations in providing services for mentally ill, homeless, and low income youth in Oswego County. It has been my honor to fight alongside Teresa, and this year, I invited her to be my guest at the State of the Union in order to highlight the need to address and combat the use of synthetic drugs. I’m proud to fight in memory of Morgan and Victor, and in this Congress, I introduced the Stop the Importation and Trafficking Synthetic Analogues (SITSA) Act. The SITSA Act modernizes the Controlled Substances Act by speeding up the process of placing synthetic drugs on the Controlled Substances list. Under current law, drug producers often make minor tweaks to illegal substances that mimic the effects of banned drugs and use this loophole to prevent law enforcement from removing these drugs from circulation. Together, by passing this legislation, we can prevent synthetic drugs from: (1) being imported into this country; (2) being routinely mixed with Heroin in fatal doses; and (3) from being sold over the counter in head shops and bodegas throughout this country. We can honor the lives of Morgan Brittany Axe and Victor Orlando Woolson, and the countless others in our community and nationwide who have been affected by this scourge, by passing this landmark legislation, as well as voting in favor of the other opioid related bills before the House this week. Every bill that we pass will be one step in the right direction and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. Rep. Katko introduced the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues (SITSA) Act last summer following the surge of local synthetic drug overdoses. The bill is scheduled for a vote in the House this Friday. ###
05.21.2018	Syracuse, New York – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced the creation of two education advisory boards in order to gain valuable input on legislative priorities from Central New York educators. The first advisory board is focused on primary and secondary education throughout Wayne, Cayuga, Onondaga, and Oswego Counties. The second is focused on higher education and includes representatives from every higher education facility in the district. “In order to best represent Central New York in Congress, it is critical that I gain perspectives from individuals throughout our community,” said Rep. Katko. “I look forward to maintaining an ongoing dialogue about college tuition and affordable housing with university officials, and school safety, security, curriculum, and access to mental healthcare, as well as other issues of concern, with our local teachers and administrators.” Rep. Katko’s primary and secondary education council includes teachers and administrators representative of each of the four counties of NY-24, including, Oswego County Opportunities, Jordan-Elbridge Central School District, Syracuse City School District, Liverpool School District, Skaneateles School District, Central Square School District, Cayuga/Seneca Community Action Agency, Inc., West Genesee School District, Moravia School District, and Solvay Union Free School District. His higher education council includes representatives from Syracuse University, Cayuga Community College, SUNY Upstate Medical University, LeMoyne College, SUNY OCC, SUNY ESF, Wells College, and SUNY Oswego. Rep. Katko has held inaugural meetings with each group and plans to continue the meetings on a regular basis. ###
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement regarding H.R. 2, The Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018. “Our region’s farmers and growers contribute significantly to Central New York’s economy and I’ve proudly fought for their interests in Washington. The Farm Bill before the House today included critical relief for our dairy farmers by improving the Margin Protection Program. It prevented cuts for crop insurance that CNY farmers heavily depend on, and it strengthened programs for apple and other specialty crop farmers. I was proud to advocate for these reforms, and applaud their inclusion in the bill that the House voted on today. “Despite these wins, I voted against this bill because I simply cannot ignore the devastating rate of poverty in my district. With nearly 18% of all households in NY-24 dependent on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), I could not look past the provisions in this bill which would alter this program significantly and result in a crushing blow to the thousands of individuals and families in our community working to raise themselves out of poverty. We cannot give the most vulnerable members of our community yet another disadvantage. “This is the beginning of the process, not the end. While the bill failed to pass through this chamber today, I am hopeful that both sides can come together to bring a bill to the President’s desk that will both strengthen our region’s farming communities and ensure that those who rely on SNAP are able to feed their families and work towards a better life.” ###
05.14.2018	LIVERPOOL, NEW YORK — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today joined company leaders at Dot Foods in Liverpool to highlight the positive impact of tax reform for this company and its employees in CNY. Company leaders thanked Rep. Katko for supporting the new tax law, which has allowed Dot Foods, Inc. to make an investment in its workforce and facilities. “I supported tax reform in Congress because after years of recession and stagnant growth, Central New York families deserve more than the status quo. Today, I’m proud to stand here at Dot Foods to learn more about how this company is investing in the hardworking men and women who work here,” said Congressman Katko. “This company – alongside many others I’ve had the opportunity to meet with across Central New York – has shared that the tax reform bill passed by Congress has enabled economic growth. Businesses here in our community and nationwide are investing in our workforce, creating more opportunities for employees, boosting paychecks, and expanding operations. I look forward to continuing to see the positive results of this historic reform throughout Central New York.” “We want to thank Congressman Katko for his hard work in passage of the tax reform act,” said Joe Little, Dot Food New York general manager. “This reform will help us to continue to grow our business and hire additional employees at Dot Foods locations across the country and here in the Liverpool region.” Dot Foods Inc. carries 127,000 products from 930 food industry manufacturers making it the largest food industry redistributor in North America. Through Dot Transportation Inc., an affiliate of Dot Foods, the company distributes foodservice, convenience, retail and vending products to distributors in all 50 states and more than 35 countries. Dot Foods operates 11 U. S. distribution centers, including its location in Liverpool, New York, which employs 316 people. At its Liverpool location, the company has had nearly $5 million in capital investment, and this summer, will begin work on a more than $2 million renovation project that will result in an upgraded employee breakroom and redesigned office space. In the wake of tax reform passage, every Dot Foods employee, locally and nationwide, received a $500 bonus. ###
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Yesterday, the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, led by Co-Chairs John Katko (R-NY-24) and Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32), in conjunction with leading mental health organizations, held a bipartisan briefing on childhood depression and the importance of identifying and treating problems early in life. “We are erasing stigma one briefing at a time, but this fight goes far beyond the halls of Congress,” said Co-Chairs Katko and Napolitano. “Mental health continues to draw more national attention, yet it remains severely underfunded and misunderstood. We need greater investment at all stages of life, especially early on. Every child in America, regardless of ZIP code or socioeconomic status, must be provided the services he or she needs. We thank all presenters, attendees, and the partnering organizations who participated in the discussion and for their ongoing efforts to promote children’s mental wellness.” Panelists at the briefing included Dr. Gary Blau, Chief of Child, Adolescent and Family Branch at the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA); Dr. Tami Benton, Psychiatrist-in-Chief and Chair of Psychiatry at The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP); Dr. William Arroyo, Medical Director of the Children’s System of Care of Los Angeles County Department of Mental Health; Harley Smith, a youth with lived experience; and Laura May, mother of Harley. They shared about their personal experiences, emphasized the benefits of early identification and treatment of childhood depression, and highlighted efforts to expand services on the national and local levels. “My depression didn’t go away, but with support, I am able to manage life and enjoy it,” said Harley Smith. “I cannot imagine going through all the struggles we did with my daughter, only to walk away and leave others to struggle through their journey alone.” said Laura May. “Suicide is the second leading cause of death for 10-24 year olds, the majority of whom suffer from depression, a treatable condition. Estimates through 2016 suggest that 3.1 million adolescents ages 12-17 years have been affected by depression, however, 60% have not received treatment,” said Dr. Benton. “Early recognition and intervention are key to successful treatment of child and adolescent depression. We can decrease the stigma of mental health conditions and increase access to care by treating young people where they are seeking support—from schools and their primary care providers. “SAMHSA greatly appreciates the efforts of the Mental Health Caucus and their partners to shine a spotlight on the importance of ‘Caring for Every Child’s Mental Health.’” said Dr. Blau. “I was pleased to share SAMHSA’s efforts to advance initiatives that align with the Interdepartmental Serious Mental Illness Coordinating Committee’s recommendations related to children and youth with serious emotional disturbances.” “Raising public awareness as to the importance of early intervention for mental health problems in young people is critical to their success later in life,” said Dr. Arroyo. “Providing mental health services in stigma-free environments, e.g., schools, is essential to the well-being of youth.” Jill Diamond, Multiple Emmy Winner and International Chair of World Boxing Cares, the non-profit organization that connects boxing personalities and world champions with those in need throughout the world, was a special guest at the briefing. She presented Congresswoman Napolitano with a boxing belt as a long-time stigma fighter. “Battling for those who have no voice, Congresswoman Grace Napolitano is the World Boxing Council's Champion of the World, in all divisions,” said Ms. Diamond. “We love fighters, and Grace is a warrior.” NAMI, the National Federation of Families for Children’s Mental Health, the American Association of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, and Mental Health America co-hosted the briefing and panel discussion. A recording of the livestreamed video can be viewed here. Yesterday, Napolitano and Katko also introduced H.Res.883, recognizing May as National Mental Health Awareness Month. “Mental health affects the well-being of communities in every congressional district across the country, but many areas lack adequate resources to treat those in need,” added Katko and Napolitano. “We invite our colleagues to work with us to raise awareness and reduce stigma this May, so we can provide our constituents with the support and services they need to thrive.” If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). For the Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/issues/may-mental-health-awareness-month. ###
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) penned the following op-ed published today with New Democrat Coalition Chair Congressman Jim Himes (D, CT- 04) on the need to find a permanent and bipartisan solution for Dreamers. Rep. Katko: Working together on a permanent legislative solution for Dreamers The Hill By: Rep. John Katko and Rep. Jim Himes May 9, 2018 Washington is broken. That’s not a campaign slogan or hyper-partisan rhetoric, that is a fact. While gridlock plagues our system of governance, there are rare occasions when our elected officials rise above the partisan gamesmanship and decide to take bold action. There are issues that shake Congress out of complacency and require urgent collaboration. Providing a permanent legislative solution for Dreamers is one of those issues. That’s why our bipartisan coalition has rallied around the Queen-of-the-Hill rule, offered by Rep. Jeff Denham (R-Calif.), which would force a debate on four competing measures to permanently solve the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) issue. Members of the New Democrat Coalition and the Republican Tuesday Group, legislators dedicated to the core principles of governing, came together to support this rule. At a time when civil, bipartisan meetings in the House are rare, our two groups still frequently discuss ways we can make our government work better. We all agree this is a problem Congress needs to address, and doing so is a step in the right direction to get government working again. While members of the House on both sides of the aisle have spent plenty of time debating the merits of the DACA program in the newspaper pages and during cable TV appearances, we have yet to have an open debate in the People’s House on an issue that we know the American people want us to solve. We were elected to serve as the voices of our constituencies, and yet we have failed to act as those voices on one of the most critical issues of our time. That is why we must immediately take up the Denham rule and allow a free and open debate to take place in front of the American people. If passed, the Denham rule would bring up for debate the Securing America’s Future Act introduced by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), the Dream Act of 2018, introduced by Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), the bipartisan USA Act introduced by Reps. Will Hurd (R-Texas) and Pete Aguilar (D-Calif.), and a bill of Speaker Paul Ryan’s (R-Wis.) choosing which could be the president’s own immigration proposal. The purpose of the Denham rule is to allow all points of view, all potential solutions to this problem, to receive a fair and open debate and a vote. The proposal that receives the most votes while also meeting the minimum requirement for a majority of votes in the House will be adopted. We have waited too long at this point and time for action is now. Himes is New Democrat Coalition chair and Katko is co-chair of the Republican Tuesday Group. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement after President Trump’s withdrawal from the Iran Nuclear Deal: “The dangerous nuclear deal put in place with Iran by the last Administration handed out billions in sanction relief while allowing Iran, the largest state sponsor of terrorism in the world, to continue its path towards a nuclear weapon. This agreement, which faced widespread scrutiny and opposition from both sides of the aisle, gave far too many concessions to Iran without providing safeguards for our country and our allies in the region. The President’s decision today to withdraw from this flawed deal and re-impose lifted sanctions is an enormous step forward in prioritizing our national security. We must now work with our allies to put economic pressure on Iran and ensure the regime renounces its nuclear arms ambitions.” ###
05.03.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced Joan Hodges, a senior at Union Springs High School in Cayuga County, as the winner of the Congressional Art Competition for the 24th Congressional District. Her piece, titled, “Backseat,” will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one full year. “Each year, my office receives a number of remarkable pieces of artwork from talented artists from all over Central New York,” said Rep. John Katko. “I am proud to announce Joan Hodges from Cayuga has been named this year’s winner. Joan is an extremely talented artist, and I look forward to seeing her artwork each day that I walk to the Capitol.” Congressman Katko’s Syracuse, Auburn, Oswego, and Lyons offices received many unique and creative entries from students in the 24th District. The winning piece of artwork was selected by a panel of esteemed judges from across NY-24. Winners of the Congressional Art Competition are invited to travel to Washington for a reception in June. Yesterday, Representative Katko met with Joan, her parents, and her art teacher at his district office in Syracuse.
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — With the support of U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), the House passed legislation today to reauthorize the programs of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 is a five-year bill which provides long-term stability for the nation’s aviation community, continues investment in U.S. airports, and makes necessary reforms to improve American competitiveness and safety in aviation. Importantly for Central New York, this legislation reauthorizes the Griffiss NUAIR test site for 6 years and prioritizes the unmanned aerial systems (UAS) work already underway at the site. It makes significant strides in safely and efficiently integrating unmanned aircraft systems into the National Airspace. The legislation also includes provisions authored by Rep. Katko to create a remote air traffic control tower pilot program to study technology that would give smaller, remote airports the opportunity to obtain affordable and safe air traffic control. Katko, a member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, said “The unmanned aerial systems industry has already begun to generate great economic growth in our region. With one of six designated FAA test sites located here in Upstate New York at Griffiss International Airport, this legislation will allow our region to continue to grow as a hub for national research as we work to integrate UAS into the national airspace. Moreover, the FAA reauthorization that the House approved today makes critical updates to ensure that our country’s aviation infrastructure is safe, modern, and competitive.” “The NUAIR Alliance supports the House’s proposed Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill which will extend the test site designation through 2024, and further encourage and enable research and development of sense and avoid and Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BLVOS) testing,” said Major General Marke F. “Hoot” Gibson (ret), chief executive officer, NUAIR Alliance. “This is an important time for the FAA to support the UAS Test Sites as they have proven themselves in critical research efforts to advance the UAS industry. New York’s designation as a test site positions us to develop a comprehensive ecosystem that connects technology, innovation, and policy to safely integrate drones into commercial airspace. New York state has led to the development of what will be the only operational BVLOS corridor in the country to develop next generation of unmanned systems. Likewise, local school districts are partnering on groundbreaking initiatives such as the development of the first ever high-school CTE program for drones. These efforts coupled with local industry expertise, unparalleled investments and visionary leadership have put us at the forefront of research for drones and unmanned systems. This bill will enable this industry leading work to continue which in turn supports the efforts of the FAA. We thank Congressman John Katko for his recognition and partnership, and for his support of this bill. We look forward to continuing this important work together.” With the advocacy of Rep. Katko, the legislation includes the following important components for Central New York: Reauthorizes the Griffiss NUAIR test site for 6 years. The 2012 FAA Modernization and Reform Act authorized seven test sites to test integrating UAS into the national airspace, which NUAIR successfully competed for and won. This bill ensures NUAIR can continue its work as a leading innovator in UAS technology and integration. Prioritizes UAS work already underway at Griffiss, including studying sense-and-avoid technology and low-altitude UAS traffic management (UTM) systems. It also makes the permitting process less burdensome to expand sense-and-avoid and beyond line of sight systems at the Griffiss NUAIR test site. Makes significant strides in safely and efficiently integrating unmanned aircraft systems into the National Airspace. This legislation promotes greater utilization of test ranges, like NUAIR, to ensure safe integration of UAS into national airspace. It also makes the permitting process less burdensome for commercial use of UAS, fostering innovation and growth in this budding industry. Includes Katko legislation to create a remote air traffic control tower pilot program to study technology that would give smaller, remote airports the opportunity to obtain affordable and safe air traffic control. The inclusion of this language in today’s legislation has the potential to grow businesses based in Central and Upstate New York that produce this technology. ###
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) has been named one of the most bipartisan members of Congress, according to a report released this week by The Lugar Center. Following each session of Congress, the Lugar Center and Georgetown University’s McCourt School of Public Policy produces a non-partisan, objective ranking of how often each Member of Congress works across party lines. “I have consistently worked to be an independent voice for Central New York in Congress,” said Rep. John Katko. “That means working across party lines to achieve results. I truly believe that by working together we can achieve more, and my record in Congress reflects that. Through my bipartisan efforts, I’ve had ten bills pass the House with two signed into law this Congress, and will continue to work across party lines to address the priorities of my district." More on the methodology, history, and past ratings of the Lugar Center’s Bipartisan Index can be found here. ###
04.09.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – Joined today by local law enforcement and school officials at the Onondaga County Sherriff’s Office, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) detailed his efforts in Congress to bolster school safety and keep children safe. “The horrific shooting that occurred in Parkland in February left our nation raw with shock, sadness, and anger. In the weeks and months that followed, students, teachers, parents, and families around the country and here in Central New York grieved the loss of innocent lives and have demanded action,” said Rep. John Katko. “I’ve had the opportunity to meet with members of our local law enforcement, school administrators and teachers, and most importantly, with our students. In several meeting with groups of students from school districts across the 24th Congressional District, these articulate and well-informed young men and women have made clear that they simply want to feel safe and secure when they go to school. I took what I heard from these students back to Washington and proudly advocated on their behalf. Because of the efforts of myself and other lawmakers seeking productive change, Congress authorized over $2.3 billion in new funding in the recent omnibus bill for mental health, training, and school safety efforts to keep children and schools safe.” Significantly, the omnibus included an increase in funding for federal grants so that schools may partner with local law enforcement to hire resource officers. These grants, known as COPS grants, allow our local law enforcement and school districts to work together to hire School Resource Officers and keep our schools safe. Additionally, because of the advocacy of Rep. Katko and others in Congress, the bill also fully funds the FBI’s National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) and ensures that it operates more adequately to address background check demand and improve NICS performance, including enhancing system availability, determination rates, and E-Check services. In addition, this measure includes funding for: Active shooter training for police Peer-to-peer mentoring for at-risk youth Violent Crime and Gun Crime Reduction/Project Safe Neighborhoods Gang and Youth violence Education and Prevention funding Department of Education funding to improve students’ safety and well-being through grants that support school mental health services, bullying and harassment prevention, mentoring and school counseling and training for school personnel. Syracuse City School District Superintendent Jaime Alicea, West Genesee School District Superintendent Dr. Chris Brown, City of Syracuse Police Chief Frank Fowler, City of Auburn Police Chief Shawn Butler, and members of the Onondaga County Sheriff's Office. ###
04.06.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – This week, bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), the U.S. Secret Service Retention Act of 2018 (HR 3731), was signed into law by President Donald Trump. Katko, who serves as Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee introduced the legislation with Rep. Elijah Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, in a bipartisan effort to ensure that the men and women of the U.S. Secret Service are paid for the overtime they worked in 2017 and 2018. “The men and women of the Secret Service put their own lives on the line every day for our country and make tremendous personal sacrifices,” said Rep. John Katko. “These men and women have been working overtime without pay, and this measure will ensure that they are justly compensated. We cannot expect the Secret Service to recruit and retain the best of the best if their agents are not being compensated for the additional work that is demanded of them.” The Secret Service has reported that more than 1,000 agents, which is a third of its workforce, have maxed-out annual overtime and salary under the pay cap set under current law, which prohibits agents from being paid for overtime after reaching the maximum annual salary for the pay rate of GS-15. The Secret Service Recruitment and Retention Act allows the Secret Service to pay additional overtime for last year and this year. The bill also requires the Government Accountability Office to report on what the agency has done to implement the recommendations of the United States Secret Service Protective Mission Panel, particularly any actions related to addressing training and personnel challenges. ###
03.28.2018	SYRACUSE, N.Y. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced his office is now accepting entries for the annual Artistic Discovery Congressional Art Competition from high school students residing in New York’s 24th Congressional District. Each year, the House of Representatives hosts the Congressional Art Competition for students across the country. The winning piece of artwork from each Congressional District is displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one full year. “Central New York is home to many talented artists and this competition is a fantastic opportunity to showcase our local talent in the U.S. Capitol,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Each year, we receive many diverse and unique entries and I look forward to seeing this year’s submissions.” Guidelines for submission are below: Artwork may be up to 26 inches wide by 26 inches tall by four inches thick, must be two dimensional, be original in concept, design, and execution, must not weigh more than 15 pounds, and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. If you are a student or a teacher, and would like to learn more about the rules about what kind art work is accepted, click here. Accepted artwork includes paintings (including oil, acrylics and watercolor), drawings (including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers), collage (must be two dimensional), prints (including lithographs, silkscreen, and block prints), mixed media, computer generated art, and photography. Artwork must be submitted with a completed copy of the competition release form to one of Rep. Katko’s district offices by April 19, 2018. Additional information regarding the Artistic Discovery Congressional Art Competition can be found here. ###
03.26.2018	SKANEATELES, NEW YORK – Standing today before Skaneateles Lake, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) announced significant increases in funding and the reauthorization of federal programming to help address the water challenges facing Central New York. “Nearly one year ago, I stood on the shore of Owasco Lake in Cayuga Countyto talk about the need to improve water infrastructure in our community and my commitment to lead that fight in Congress. Since then, Central New York has continued to face significant water infrastructure challenges, especially with the recent detection of Harmful Algal Blooms in Skaneateles Lake. That’s why I’ve continued to fight to ensure our community has the resources it needs to provide clean drinking water to families and businesses,” said Rep. John Katko (NY-24). “Today, I’m proud to announce that, because of my efforts, we have achieved a significant funding increase to study and help mitigate Harmful Algal Blooms. In addition, I’m proud to have delivered an increase in funding to the State Revolving Funds to assist state and local governments with water infrastructure needs, and to reauthorize the Brownfields Program, which provides the funding necessary to rehabilitate blighted land. I’ll continue to work alongside our local advocates to ensure communities throughout this district have access to clean, safe drinking water.” Last week, Congress passed and the President signed into law an omnibus spending bill that contained several provisions led by Rep. Katko to strengthen water infrastructure, including: A $1.3 million increase in funding to combat the scourge of Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) affecting Central New York and communities nationwide. A $600 million increase to the Drinking Water and Clean Water State Revolving Funds (SRF programs), which has provided billions of dollars in interest free loans and grants since their creation. The SRF is the primary federal program that provides financial assistance for states and local communities nationwide to make high priority water investments. The majority of public water systems and municipalities across Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties depend on these funds to maintain and repair local water infrastructure. Rep. Katko has led efforts for the past two years urging House appropriators to double SRF funding from current levels. Rep. Katko’s letter has become the largest water infrastructure funding letter of its kind in Congress with over 90 Members of Congress, on both sides of the aisle, signing on. The inclusion of bipartisan legislation authored by Rep. Katko to reauthorize the EPA’s Brownfields Program. This program provides the funding necessary to rehabilitate blighted land previously used for industry, or for the processing or storage of toxic materials and waste. Communities throughout the 24th district, including Auburn, Syracuse, and Oswego, have repeatedly benefited from this program. Robust funding for programs which help preserve, protect and restore lakes, rivers and waterways in Central New York, including the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, the North American Wetlands Conservation Act, and the Land and Water Conservation Fund. Increased funding for other federal programs that have proved invaluable to the preservation of clean drinking water and effective water infrastructure in our region, such as the US Department of Agriculture Water and Sewer Loan and Grant Program, the Circuit Riders Program, and the USDA Grassroots Source Water Protection Program, all which help assist small and rural communities with their water infrastructure needs. Rep. Katko was joined in making today’s announcement by a bipartisan group of elected officials from Onondaga and Cayuga Counties, as well as the leaders of the Skaneateles Lake Association and the Owasco Watershed Lake Association. ###
03.26.2018	Syracuse, New York – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor PEACE Inc.’s 50th anniversary and to celebrate this organization’s dedicated efforts to serve our community. Video of Representative Katko’s can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 50th birthday of PEACE Inc., a non-profit, community-based organization in my district in Onondaga County. PEACE Inc. was founded on March 26, 1968 with a mission to empower individuals in our community to thrive. Today, this organization plays an integral part in the lives of so many Central New Yorkers. From children and families, to teenagers, to senior citizens – PEACE Inc. is dedicated to helping all individuals realize their self-worth and become self-sufficient. Under the leadership of Executive Director Joe O’Hara and its board of directors, PEACE Inc. is Onondaga County’s federally designated Community Action Agency. PEACE Inc. programs such as HeadStart, Senior Nutrition, and EITC Free Tax Prep programs help to bring about positive change in our community, and represent the impact of change that the federal government can make when working in collaboration with our local partners. Poverty does not just hurt those who live in it. It hurts our entire community. By focusing on stabilizing families, improving living conditions, and developing partnerships with our regional schools, businesses, and other non-profits, PEACE Inc. has provided thousands of individuals and families in our community with a pathway out of poverty. After 50 years of outstanding work, PEACE Inc. deserves our recognition and our gratitude. I join many in our community in wishing the many men and women involved in this program congratulations on 50 years! ###
03.23.2018	Syracuse, New York – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) this week spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize the 24th annual Vera House White Ribbon Campaign and to urge his colleagues to stand in solidarity against domestic violence and sexual assault. Video of Representative Katko’s can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak out against domestic violence and sexual abuse. Domestic violence affects people from all backgrounds. Regardless of race, religion, and socio-economic background, domestic abuse touches all aspects of our community. According to the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, nearly 20 people per minute are assaulted by an intimate partner. We must work together to stop this. Central New York is home to Vera House, a wonderful organization that works to prevent and respond to domestic and sexual violence. This month, Vera House kicked off its 24th Annual White Ribbon Campaign in Central New York. This campaign raises awareness for the need to put an end to domestic violence and sexual abuse. Throughout the duration of the White Ribbon Campaign, thousands of Central New Yorkers will be wearing a white ribbon – as I am today – to stand in solidarity against abuse. I urge my House colleagues to join me in wearing a white ribbon to demonstrate a personal pledge to work towards preventing violence against men, women, and children. I yield back the balance of my time. This afternoon, Rep. Katko joined hundreds of Central New Yorkers for the Vera House White Ribbon Walk.
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON— In the wake of the horrific shooting in Parkland, Florida last month, U.S. Reps. John Katko (R, NY-24) and Henry Cuellar (D, TX-28) today announced the introduction of bipartisan legislation, the Securing Our Children Act of 2018. This measure would create a commission tasked with developing recommendations for policymakers on how to properly address issues related to the safety and security of our nation’s children. “As a father, I was heartbroken by the senseless shooting that occurred last month in Parkland, Florida. I recognize that Congress must take action. However, as is too often the case in Washington, this debate has created a bitter partisan battle instead of sparking a productive debate,” said Rep. John Katko. “Despite this divide, I am confident there are areas in which we can find consensus – but doing so will require having conversations that make both sides of the aisle uncomfortable. Gun violence has decreased dramatically nationwide, yet, the number of mass shootings continues to rise at an alarming rate. The bipartisan legislation I have introduced with Rep. Cuellar would bring together individuals and groups from across the political spectrum to examine this challenge, and, I’m hopeful will yield productive results.” “We have the utmost responsibility to keep our communities, and the children within them, safe and protected,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Unfortunately, recent shootings have revealed that additional safety protocols are needed in order prevent tragedies from occurring in the future. That is why Representative Katko and I have introduced this important piece of legislation, which will establish a bipartisan Commission to review procedures on school campuses, evaluate current State and Federal firearm regulations, and enforce behavioral health support resources for students. It will also examine loopholes in the current National Instant Criminal Background Check System. I am confident that this Commission will improve our current background system and create a safer environment for our children. I look forward to working together with Representative Katko and other members of Congress in a bipartisan manner on these important issues.” Specifically, the Commission will examine: The correlation or non-correlation between mental illness and random acts of violence; Accessibility of firearms to those who have exhibited violent behavior; The current state of the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS); Safety protocols and procedures on school campuses; Current State and Federal firearm regulations; and The behavioral health support resources available to students in schools and their communities. Under Katko and Cuellar’s legislation, members of the bipartisan Commission will be appointed by the President, as well as Republican and Democrat leaders of the House and Senate. The Commission will submit a written report of all findings to the President and Congress within one year. ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, following passage in the House of the Omnibus spending bill, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) highlighted several wins for Central New York. “The funding measure that passed the House today contains significant wins for Central New York, including provisions I advocated for to invest in our water infrastructure, study the scourge of Harmful Algal Blooms affecting Central New York, and bolster access to mental healthcare,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Additionally, this measure provides funding for programs critical to our community like Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) and the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). It improves access to housing for those in need, invests significantly in the opioid epidemic plaguing our community, and prioritizes school safety.” Significantly, the measure includes the following initiatives led by Rep. Katko: Invests in combating the scourge of Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) affecting Central New York and communities nationwide by providing a $1.3 million dollar increase in funding to study the impact of these toxic substances and research how to best mitigate outbreaks. Provides a $600 million increase for Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (SRF). The SRF is the primary federal program that provides financial assistance for states and local communities nationwide to make high priority water investments. The majority of public water systems and municipalities across Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties depend on these funds to maintain and repair local water infrastructure. Clean Water State Revolving funds can be used for a wide range of water infrastructure projects, including nonpoint source pollution management programs, storm water drainage improvements, and watershed projects, all of which can assist in reducing and preventing HABs. Includes legislation authored by Rep. Katko to reauthorize the Brownfields Program. The program empowers states, communities, and stakeholders to assess, clean up, and redevelop industrial or commercial sites that have been contaminated with hazardous waste or pollution. The omnibus package increases funding for the program, providing $200 million annually for the initiative through 2023. Includes bipartisan legislation introduced by Rep. Katko to support innovative technology produced in Central New York and directs the FAA to continue operating the ongoing remote tower pilot initiative. Central New York is home to production facilities that create such technology and local contractors would be well situated to compete for these federal government contracts. Advances efforts led by Rep. Katko to enhance access to mental health services by expanding the mental and behavioral health workforce included under Medicare. Rep. Katko has previously proposed legislation in the House to add licensed mental health counselors and marriage and family therapists to Medicare’s network of eligible service providers. Currently, these highly qualified providers are not able to bill Medicare for their services, despite providing care to seniors and individuals with disabilities. By making this simple change, patients nationwide – especially in rural, underserved communities – will have better access to care. In addition to spearheading the above initiatives, Rep. Katko successfully advocated for several additional priority items for Central New York including: Making the largest investment to date in combating the opioid epidemic by addressing prevention and treatment and providing grants to states and localities to help offset law enforcement costs associated with opioid abuse. Providing an $85 million increase in lead hazard reduction grants and funding increases for several key housing programs, including Project-Based Rental Assistance, Housing for Persons with Disabilities, Housing for the Elderly, Section 8, Public, and Native American Housing, Homelessness Assistance Grants and the HOME Investment Partnerships Program. Investing in school safety by providing over $2.3 billion in new funding for mental health, training, and school safety efforts to keep schools and students safe. Focusing on advancing primary and secondary education by increasing funding for early childhood programs such as HeadStart, Preschool Development Grants, and IDEA Special Education Grants. Additionally, the bill invests in higher education by increasing the maximum Pell Grant award, provides an increase of $86 million to Impact Aid and increase the TRIO Student Aid Program by $60 million. Prioritizing veterans care by authorizing an additional $10 million for the veterans crisis line, as well as investing in suicide prevention outreach and VA mental health services. Funding agriculture-focused research to stop devastating crop diseases, improve food safety and water quality, increase production, and combat antimicrobial resistance. Strengthening our national security by providing funding to combat terrorism, bolster aviation security technology, and provide the biggest increase in defense funding in 15 years to fully fund our nation’s military and give troops a pay raise. ###
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24), Claudia Tenney (NY-22) and John Faso (NY-19) this week called on the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to reconsider its denial of major disaster declaration relief for counties in each of their districts that were impacted by severe storms and flooding in July 2017. In January, FEMA declined to issue a major disaster declaration and provide assistance to fifteen counties across Upstate New York, noting that damage followed the occurrence of multiple storms, and did not occur as the result of one distinct event. However, FEMA has routinely grouped multiple storms together to grant aid in the past, and communities in Upstate New York remain in serious need of federal assistance to mitigate damages. Congressman Katko stated, “Shoreline communities across my district remain in grave need of federal assistance. The damage to our municipalities, property owners, farmers, and local businesses has been tremendous, and without proper aid, these costs will continue to rise and affect our communities. I join my colleagues today in urging FEMA to reconsider its decision and will continue working at home to support our local and county governments as they work to rebuild.” “The cruel decision to deny flood victims in New York the necessary federal assistance they deserve is outrageous and must be reconsidered. The damage inflicted from these storms and the financial costs of rebuilding fall far outside the capability of the impacted counties. Our office has visited and spoke with numerous property owners whose homes and businesses were ravaged by flooding. Seeing the scope of the damaged properties firsthand, I continue to be astonished that a major disaster declaration has not been issued for our region. I stand ready to work with FEMA, the Trump Administration and the State of New York to ensure that all impacted receive the assistance they desperately need,” said Congresswoman Claudia Tenney. “Flooding resulting from severe storms in July of 2017 caused millions of dollars of damage in communities that cannot foot the entire bill themselves. This is precisely the reason disaster declarations exist. I am disappointed that FEMA did not grant a declaration to help local communities rebuild critical infrastructure, such as roads and bridges. It would be in the best interest of Upstate New York that FEMA reconsider its decision,” said Congressman Faso. The text of their letter can be found here. ###
03.16.2018	Syracuse, New York – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement: “I’m incredibly saddened by the loss of my friend and colleague, Rep. Louise Slaughter. Despite our party differences, Louise was always willing to work together in a bipartisan manner to fight for the people of our neighboring districts in Upstate New York. It was an honor to serve alongside her. During this difficult time, Robin and I keep her family, loved ones, and the people of Rochester and Monroe County in our thoughts and prayers.” ###
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Three members of New York’s upstate Congressional delegation whose districts border on Lake Ontario are asking the State Department to issue a report on the International Joint Commission’s (IJC) Plan 2014 and damages to the lake shoreline last Spring. Congressman Chris Collins (NY-27), Congresswoman Claudia Tenney (NY-22), and Congressman John Katko (NY-24) have requested that House of Representative Speaker Paul Ryan and House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen require this report in the upcoming legislation that will fund the State Department for the current fiscal year. Their request comes as a result of unprecedented flooding which caused damage to shoreline homes, businesses and municipalities which many believe where due to the implementation of Plan 2014 by the IJC. The report would require an assessment of damages and options for compensation to those impacted by the flooding. “My constituents deserve more answers about the significant flooding along the Lake Ontario shoreline that took place last year,” said Collins. “It’s important to understand the true impacts of Plan 2014 so we can find a workable solution moving forward. I’m confident that the Trump Administration is close to replacing the commissioners on the IJC with individuals that will get rid of this disastrous plan.” “Last year’s flooding of Lake Ontario caused significant damage to homes, businesses and infrastructure across the region,” said Tenney. “Plan 2014, approved by the Obama Administration, has been one of the major contributors to the damage the Lake Ontario region has experienced. If Plan 2014 remains unaddressed, the high water levels will continue to cause severe damage. It is imperative that language is included in the remaining FY18 Budget to require the State Department to report on the damages to the shoreline of Lake Ontario caused by the 2017 flooding.” “Together with Reps. Collins and Tenney, I am committed to ensuring shoreline property owners, municipalities, farmers, and businesses are able recover from the severe flooding our region faced in 2017,” said Katko. “As part of this effort, is critical that we take steps to assess the detrimental impact of Plan 2014 on communities along Lake Ontario. Doing so will help our local officials take action to mitigate future damages and increase preparedness.” In July of last year, Representative Hal Rogers, Chairman of the State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Subcommittee, included this report in their spending bill although it was never signed into law. The House is expected to vote on funding for the remainder of FY18 before March 23, 2018. To read a copy of the letter, click here. ###
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This afternoon, City of Syracuse Police Chief Frank Fowler urged the House Committee on Energy and Commerce to move legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) to combat the synthetic drug epidemic. Video of Chief Fowler’s testimony can be found here. Katko’s bill, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues (SITSA) Act, is bipartisan, bicameral legislation which modernizes the Controlled Substances Act and outlaws 13 synthetic fentanyls that have been identified by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) as an immediate threat to public health. “I’m honored to have Chief Fowler in Washington today and grateful for his willingness to outline the horrors of synthetic drug use in our community,” said Rep. Katko. “In Syracuse and throughout Central New York, we’ve seen record surges in synthetic drug overdoses and our law enforcement are on the front lines combating this epidemic. The legislation I’ve introduced will help stop the unlawful importation and distribution of synthetic drugs and give our law enforcement the tools they need to keep our community safe.” In his testimony, Chief Fowler highlighted the influx of synthetic opioids in Syracuse and the difficulty of keeping these substances off the street. Chief Fowler urged support for the legislation, stating, “We’ve been plagued by a synthetic drug epidemic in Syracuse. This legislation will provide tougher penalties to the people responsible for bringing these dangerous substances into our community, and help rid our streets of these poisons.” Toxic, synthetic drugs are designed to mimic street drugs like marijuana, LSD, cocaine, Ecstasy and other hard drugs. They can be more potent than the real thing and just as deadly. Currently, manufacturers and distributors of these substances are able to slightly alter the chemical structure of drugs to avoid law enforcement scrutiny and prosecution. Earlier this year, Rep. Katko was joined in Washington by Central New York advocate Teresa Woolson in urging Congress to take up the SITSA Act. Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday evening, with the support of U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), the House passed H.R. 1865 - Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act, legislation to empower human trafficking survivors and provide state and local law enforcement with the necessary legal tools to go after websites that facilitate human trafficking. “Human trafficking is a modern-day version of slavery, and sadly, exists in many of our communities nationwide. Here in Central New York, organizations like McMahon/Ryan Child Advocacy Center and Vera House work tirelessly to protect victims and end these heinous crimes,” said Rep. John Katko. “The legislation that passed through the House with my support will help to raise awareness, provide support for survivors, and fight online sex trafficking.” In Central New York, McMahon/Ryan Child Advocacy Center currently works with over 100 victims of human trafficking, and its numbers continue to grow. “We need to stop traffickers in any way we can, making it difficult for them to traffic our youth and holding them accountable,” said Colleen Merced, Acting Executive Director for McMahon/Ryan Child Advocacy Center. “We thank Congressman Katko for recognizing the importance of addressing human trafficking. McMahon/Ryan Child Advocacy Center continues to fight for child trafficking victims and urge others to use their voices to fight to ensure that children do not continue to suffer in silence.” “We need to use every tool possible to cut off avenues traffickers use to prey on vulnerable victims. It is wonderful to have the support of Congressman Katko for important efforts like this,” commented Vera House Executive Director Randi Bregman. Rep. Katko has prioritized addressing the threat of human trafficking in Congress. Earlier this year, bipartisan legislation he introduced to combat the threat of human trafficking on our nation’s transportation systems was signed into law by President Trump. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.09.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that, following passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act, which he supported, Oswego Health will receive $1.4 million to continue to serve those most in need. The budget agreement provides a five-year extension of the Medicare low-volume adjustment policy, which provides special Medicare payments to certain small and low-volume hospitals. The extension included important reforms to the low-volume adjustment policy, making Oswego Health and other rural New York hospitals eligible for funding. Beginning in FY2019 and over the course of five years, Oswego Health will receive an additional $1.4 million to provide care. “Rural hospitals like Oswego Health face significant, unique challenges in providing care. Throughout my time in Congress, I’ve worked alongside Oswego Health to ensure they are able to deliver the best quality care and was proud to support this budget, which provides significant support and funding certainty to Oswego Health and other rural providers,” said Rep. Katko. Jeff Coakley, Executive Vice President for Oswego Health, stated, “The new funding Oswego Health will now receive through the Medicare Low-Volume payment adjustment is important to allowing us to continue providing high quality healthcare to patients in our community. Rep. Katko has long been a champion of hospitals and healthcare in Central New York and we thank him for his help in securing this funding for Oswego.” In order for a hospital to qualify for low volume payment adjustment, it must be located 15 miles or further from the nearest hospital and have a low number of Medicare discharges. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement on House passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act: “This morning, with my support, the House passed a bipartisan budget measure. “First and foremost, I supported this measure because it prioritizes our national defense. With this vote, Congress has lifted defense spending caps and provided a boost in military spending to ensure the safety of our nation both at home and abroad. With ongoing threats from North Korea and throughout the world, our military must be strengthened. This measure will ensure that the brave men and women who put their lives on the line for our freedom and our democracy have the resources that they need. “Importantly, this measure increases support for our ongoing efforts to combat opioid addiction. As Central New Yorkers know all too well, this scourge is costing our community and our country exponentially. This budget invests significantly in addressing and ending this epidemic. “This bipartisan measure contains several significant wins for Central New York. It prioritizes funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), delays cuts to Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) payments, provides funding for community health centers, extends CHIP for 10 years, and will allow mental health providers to deliver greater levels of care in underserved communities by funding the National Health Service Corps. It addresses the pension crisis affecting a fair number of my constituents by creating a bicameral, bipartisan congressional commission on pension reform. Finally, this agreement will give our local farmers and producers relief by modifying the Margin Protection Program (MPP) for dairy producers and providing more risk management options for famers in obtaining Federal Crop Insurance. “No budget agreement is perfect. But I believe that this measure provides long-term certainty and gets us away from short-term measures that only take us from crisis to crisis.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.02.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – Today, following release of the U.S. Department of Labor report indicating that the economy added 200,000 jobs in January and wages have grown at the fastest rate since 2009, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement: “Today’s report shows that our economy is continuing to improve. In Congress, I supported the Tax Cut and Jobs Act because after years of recession and stagnant growth, Central New York families and individuals nationwide deserve more than the status quo. Today’s numbers are proof that this measure has enabled economic growth. Nationwide, we are seeing businesses investing in our workforce, creating more opportunities, boosting paychecks, and expanding operations. As wage growth and consumer confidence continue to rise, I look forward to seeing results here in Central New York and across this country.” Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the President’s call for strengthened infrastructure during this week’s State of the Union address, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) has introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation in the House to modernize our nation’s water infrastructure systems. Rep. Katko was joined by Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) in offering the bill. The Securing Required Funding for Water Infrastructure Now Act (SRF WIN Act) modernizes federal investment in water infrastructure to leverage $1 billion into over $50 billion in new funds to complete thousands of vetted water and wastewater State Revolving Fund projects. This legislation will build on and preserve the bipartisan Water Infrastructure Financing and Innovation Act (WIFIA), successful legislation that leveraged millions of dollars of investment into local water systems. Katko’s legislation combines the best aspects of the State Revolving Funds with the leveraging power of WIFIA to more efficiently and affordably provide states with access to new funding to make the desperately needed investments in drinking and wastewater infrastructure. “In Central New York and communities nationwide, we need to focus on updating our water infrastructure systems to ensure safe, reliable drinking water is available,” said Rep. Katko. “I’m proud to introduce this innovative, bipartisan legislation, and hopeful for the prospect of billions of dollars in new water infrastructure investment. These funds could prove extremely helpful as communities throughout our region work to update and maintain water systems.” “America’s water systems are in crisis. The federal government is not investing in water maintenance and repair. Estimates show that up to $1 trillion may be needed to meet the demands of the next 25 years,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Our legislation will help close that gap, rebuild and renew America, and help to ensure that no American family has to worry about the safety of their water.” Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney said, “Onondaga County is proud of its record of investing in our water infrastructure. The SRF WIN Act will provide the additional funding needed to ensure that we can continue investing in our water systems for every resident and business. I appreciate Congressman Katko’s longstanding efforts in Congress to strengthen water infrastructure funding.” “The biggest challenge the City of Oswego has at this time, like many upstate New York communities is our aging and deteriorating municipal infrastructure. Our roads, bridges and water infrastructure are becoming unreliable as they age and need to be repaired or updated. Most local government budgets alone can not handle the expense associated with adequately updating and replacing this critical infrastructure. I applaud Congressman Katko for introducing this legislation and working to ensure localities can continue to provide safe, clean, and reliable water to our taxpayers. This much-needed funding would significantly help the City of Oswego and as always, Congressman Katko is bringing our most pressing issues to the forefront in Washington,” stated City of Oswego Mayor Billy Barlow. “With an estimated one-in-seven New York schools with unsafe drinking water and a multi-billion dollar investment needed in our clean water infrastructure, now is the time to properly restore critical water infrastructure funding. We applaud Rep. Katko’s ongoing efforts to protect every New Yorker’s access to clean, safe water and look forward to continuing our partnership on this important issue,” said Mike Elmendorf, President & CEO of the Associated General Contractors of New York State. This legislation would: Authorize $200 million annually over five years to support state revolving fund projects exclusively. Encourage states to bundle their projects by waiving the $100,000 application fee and streamlining the application process to a maximum 180-day turnaround. Simplify the federal approval process by allowing thousands of vetted drinking water and wastewater projects to receive funding, eliminating the need for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to process thousands of additional loan applications. Preserve the successful state revolving funds (SRFs) and the Water Infrastructure and Innovation Act (WIFIA) loan program. Rep. Katko has focused significantly in Congress on bolstering water infrastructure for Central New York and communities nationwide. He led efforts in the House to restore critical water infrastructure funding to the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (SRF) and recently joined Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) and members of the Problem Solvers Caucus in authoring a bipartisan infrastructure report highlighting the importance of investing in infrastructure on a federal level. This measure has been introduced in the Senate by Sens. Boozman (R-AR), Booker (D-NJ), Inhofe (R-OK), and Feinstein (D-CA). Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) will this evening be joined for the President’s State of the Union address by Teresa Woolson, an Oswego County mother who lost her son, Victor, to synthetic drugs in August 2012. Following Victor’s death, Woolson created the Victor Orlando Woolson (V.O.W.) Foundation in his honor. Since then, has worked tirelessly on a local, state, and federal level to advocate for stronger policies to raise awareness about the dangers of opioid addiction and combat the rise of synthetic drugs. Partnering with Woolson and the V.O.W. Foundation, Representative Katko has prioritized combating the heroin and synthetic drug epidemic that has plagued Central New York. This Congress, he has introduced and championed bipartisan, bicameral legislation to help stop the unlawful importation and distribution of synthetic drugs and give local law enforcement the effective tools they need to keep our community safe. The Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues (SITSA) Act modernizes the Controlled Substances Act and outlaws 13 synthetic fentanyls that have been identified by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) as an immediate threat to public health. This afternoon, ahead of the President’s State of the Union address, Katko and Woolson met with House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (OR-2) to tell Victor’s story and highlight the importance of Katko’s bill. Chairman Walden shared that the Committee will begin the process this month of holding legislative hearings on measures to combat the opioid epidemic, including Katko’s bill. Chairman Walden stated, “Rep. Katko has been working tirelessly on his legislation to stop the trafficking of synthetic drugs like fentanyl. These dangerous drugs have emerged as the latest wave of the opioid epidemic, and it’s critical that our local officials and law enforcement officials have the tools they need to identify these deadly substances. I’m looking forward to continuing to work with Rep. Katko on this important bill and look forward to seeing it through the legislative process.” “I’ve been honored to work alongside Teresa in the fight against synthetic drugs and opioids and am truly privileged to have her as my guest for this evening’s State of the Union address,” said Rep. Katko. “I’m grateful for Chairman Walden’s dedication to ending the heroin, opioid, and synthetic drug epidemic and look forward to working with him to advance this measure through the Committee and Congress.” Teresa Woolson said, “The synthetic drug that killed my son was identified as XLR-11 and this chemical compound continued to cause harm for another 4 years before it was added to the Controlled Substance List. This bill would create a much-needed tool to help law enforcement stop the spread of these deadly drugs in our Country. I applaud Congressman Katko for his continued efforts to combat this drug crisis and I’m grateful to Chairman Walden for prioritizing this bill.” Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24), Claudia Tenney (NY-22), and Elise Stefanik (NY-21), urged the President, the Department of Transportation (DOT), and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) this week to support New York’s application for the FAA Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Integration Pilot Program (IPP). The UAS Integration Pilot Program is an opportunity for state, local, and tribal governments to partner with private sector entities to accelerate safe UAS integration. The Program is expected to provide immediate opportunities for new and expanded commercial UAS operations, foster a meaningful dialogue on the balance between local and national interests related to UAS integration, and provide actionable information to the DOT on expanded and universal integration of UAS into the National Airspace System (NAS). New York State’s proposal was submitted with the support of more than sixty local municipalities, businesses, tribal nations, state authorities, and state agencies that are teaming on the application. The NUAIR Alliance, which operates and manages the UAS Test Site at Griffiss International Airport in Rome, New York, is a key partner in this initiative. Winning designation as an IPP site will allow Central New York to continue its development as a competitive, economic hub for innovation and research in the industry. “The unmanned aerial systems industry has the potential to generate great economic growth in our region,” said Representative Katko. “The cutting-edge work being done at the NUAIR test site at Griffiss International Airport and in the UTM Corridor from Rome to Syracuse makes our state an international leader in UAS innovation and integration. Being selected as an IPP site will only further our region’s ability to create new jobs, attract businesses, and strengthen our economy. I will continue to advocate for this important initiative and implore the Administration and relevant agencies to give New York’s application full consideration.” “Griffiss International Airport and the NUAIR Alliance are vitally important regional assets. As the premier UAS test site, Griffiss and our region have the talent and infrastructure necessary to support the IPP site. Securing the designation as an IPP site will bolster our Upstate economy and attract cutting-edge, high-tech companies to our area," said Representative Tenney. “I urge the Trump Administration to consider Upstate New York for this important designation and look forward to working alongside Reps. Kakto and Stefanik throughout the process." “If New York is successfully selected as an IPP site, it will spur the creation of hundreds of needed, quality jobs in our region. Specifically, in my district, it will help the Department of Environmental Conservation monitor important conservation efforts, emergency management, land surveillance, and public safety in our treasured Adirondack Park. I am proud to strongly support New York’s application for the FAA’s Unmanned Aircraft Systems Integration Pilot Program and urge the Administration to give it full consideration,” said Representative Stefanik. "We are proud of our industry leading capabilities such as our unparalleled State investments, cutting-edge research in both UAS technology and UAS policy, and our proven New York test site team all of which are the basis of our comprehensive UAS Integration Pilot Program proposal," said Major General Marke F. “Hoot” Gibson (ret), CEO of the NUAIR Alliance. "Furthermore the collaboration and bipartisan engagement that supports these efforts, and drives our recent success, will enable us to advance the goals and missions of the IPP program." The full text of the letter can be found HERE. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement: “It is incumbent upon Congress to keep the government open and functioning. We can have disagreement and debate, but a shutdown is not the answer. As Congress works now to re-open the government, we must put the partisan bickering and blame aside and work across party lines to find consensus. I am committed to doing so, and will refuse my paycheck until the government re-opens and all of our nation’s defense personnel are paid. During this time, my offices in Central New York and Washington will remain open for normal business hours so that we may continue to assist constituents.” On Thursday evening, Rep. Katko supported a Continuing Resolution in the House to fund the government through the next month and extend CHIP for six years. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25), announced today that, following their advocacy, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has granted aid requests previously denied for Cayuga and Monroe Counties. Following persistently high water levels and unprecedented flooding in communities along the Lake Ontario shoreline in 2017, Governor Cuomo officially requested that a major disaster declaration be issued for New York. Reps. Katko and Slaughter, among other members of the New York delegation, urged the President to support the disaster declaration that time. In December 2017, while many other counties in New York State were granted aid, Cayuga and Monroe counties were denied federal assistance. Responding immediately, Reps. Katko and Slaughter acted in a bipartisan manner in urging FEMA to reconsider any expedited appeal submitted by the Governor in order to protect and rebuild shoreline communities in Cayuga and Monroe Counties. Today, the Federal Emergency Management Agency amended its original decision to provide public assistance to Cayuga and Monroe counties. This assistance will cover emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities. “I would like to thank FEMA for acting quickly to assist Cayuga County in its recovery efforts,” said Representative Katko. “This federal aid is essential to rebuilding our shoreline and will provide necessary relief to the property owners, businesses, farmers, and municipalities in our community that have been devastated by flooding.” “I’m pleased that FEMA amended their Major Disaster Declaration for New York State at our urging so it now includes Monroe and Cayuga counties. This declaration is long overdue following the historic flooding along Lake Ontario last year. This assistance will be important as both counties continue to rebuild in the months ahead,” said Representative Slaughter. ###
01.12.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) this week called on the New York State Public Service Commission to examine the potential benefits of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act and to determine whether to pass along savings to ratepayers. The Tax Cut and Jobs Act, which Rep. Katko supported in the House, substantially lowers the tax rate for utility companies. As such, many companies are passing these savings on to ratepayers and nationwide, Americans are beginning to see the benefits of the federal tax law in their monthly energy bills. Regulators in states such as Indiana, Montana, and Louisiana are evaluating the implications of the new tax law for customers. Today, Rep. Katko urged New York to do the same. In his letter to the New York State Public Service Commission, Rep. Katko stated, “I write today to ask this Commission to review impacts of this legislation on New York energy companies, and to report on expected rate changes for customers in our state in the coming year. I am hopeful that the New York State Public Service Commission will work to ensure hardworking New Yorkers are able to enjoy the benefits of this legislation, and realize a net reduction in their monthly energy bill in the coming months.” A copy of the letter can be found here and below. Dear Mrs. Burgess: The Tax Cut and Jobs Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, made the first comprehensive reforms to our tax code in nearly three decades. I supported this legislation because I believe it will unleash the economic potential of our nation, expand opportunities for small businesses, allow employers to invest in our workforce, and ultimately result in higher wages and more take-home pay for my constituents in Central New York. This legislation levels the playing field for American businesses, making them more competitive and putting American workers first. Accordingly, we have already seen vast economic investment in our nation’s workforce. Daily reports indicate that, as a direct result of this legislation, companies nationwide continue to distribute bonuses and increase wages and 401(k) contributions to employees. Importantly, Americans are also beginning to see the benefits of this legislation in their monthly energy bill. Across the nation, utility companies have announced lower rates for customers. Just this week, Baltimore Gas and Electric announced its intention to pass $103 million in tax savings on to consumers. In doing so, it joins Pepco, Pacific Power, Rocky Mountain Power, and Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) in filing for rate decreases with their respective state utility commissions. States such as Montana, Kentucky, Indiana, and Louisiana are all reviewing the potential tax savings of the legislation and will address rates accordingly. I write today to ask this Commission to review impacts of this legislation on New York energy companies, and to report on expected rate changes for customers in our state in the coming year. I am hopeful that the New York State Public Service Commission will work to ensure hardworking New Yorkers are able to enjoy the benefits of this legislation, and realize a net reduction in their monthly energy bill in the coming months. While I recognize that heated rhetoric from both sides dominated the tax reform debate, I hope that we can find common ground and work to pass on the clear benefits of this law to New Yorkers. I look forward to hearing from you on this issue and welcome your feedback and suggestions. Sincerely, John Katko Member of Congress Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.11.2018	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – Following yesterday’s release of a bipartisan infrastructure report by the Problem Solvers Caucus Infrastructure Working Group led by U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), Central New York transportation stakeholders today highlighted the importance of focusing on infrastructure on a federal level. The report, released yesterday, offers solutions for infrastructure issues of particular importance to Central New York, including recommendations related to addressing investment in surface infrastructure, ports and waterways, water and wastewater infrastructure, and broadband and communications. "Effective, efficient and reliable infrastructure that is routinely maintained and enhanced is essential for any city, region or state to be competitive and drive sustained economic growth,” said Robert Simpson, president of CenterState CEO. “We are thankful for Congressman Katko’s bipartisan leadership efforts to date and are interested in engaging with him and others to develop strategic solutions to address Central New York’s critical needs. This plan rightly points out that while roads and bridges are likely to receive the greatest focus, it is imperative that policies also include investments for airports, rail, port and cyber infrastructure.” MACNY and Manufacturers Alliance of New York State President Randy Wolken stated, “Manufacturers and businesses need an updated and modern infrastructure system to remain competitive in our global economy. Investments in innovative infrastructure advancements will help in our transporting of goods and quality products, allowing our sector to become even stronger and more competitive on a global level. I would like to extend my gratitude to Congressman Katko for his continued support for infrastructure investments on behalf of our region and sector.” Rick Lee, Chief Executive Officer for the Central New York Regional Transportation Authority (Centro) stated, “Federal funding allocations to Centro, from the Highway Trust Fund, are critical to our ability to purchase buses, replace capital equipment, and finance our operations. The stability of the Highway Trust Fund is essential to Centro and every public transportation agency in the United States. The ideas put forth from the Problem Solvers Caucus are reasonable and necessary and I urge their immediate implementation.” “Federal Assistance is critical for maintenance of our local infrastructure. In the Syracuse area we have a robust and comprehensive transportation system – but the problem is that it is aging,” said Jim D’Agostino, Director of the Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council. “When the Federal Highway System was built over 50 years ago it was a large national initiative prioritized by the Federal Government. Since then the system has only grown more important and complex. Older urban areas like Syracuse require a commensurate level of federal investment to maintain our vast system and this is essential for continued economic development in our area.” “This report, highlighting America’s aging infrastructure, is extremely timely given that OCWA—Central New York’s Water Authority—, in addition to its ongoing capital reinvestment program, OCWA will be investing and estimated $50 million to modernize the 50-year old Lake Ontario water treatment facility over the next few years,” said Michael Hooker, Executive Director of OCWA. “OCWA commends Rep. Katko for listening to his constituents and taking proactive steps to create cost-effective solutions to address a critical issue that impacts all residents and businesses located in Central New York.” The Problem Solvers Caucus is a bipartisan group in Congress comprising of 48 members – equally divided between Democrats and Republicans – who are committed to forging bipartisan cooperation on key issues. The Problem Solvers Infrastructure Working Group was launched to find consensus on a bipartisan set of policies to serve as the bedrock for a plan that addresses the dire need to rebuild and responsibly invest in infrastructure across the United States. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), co-chairs of the Problem Solvers Caucus Infrastructure Working Group, released a bipartisan report today highlighting a series of recommendations to build a 21st century infrastructure network. The Problem Solvers Caucus is a bipartisan group in Congress comprising of 48 members – equally divided between Democrats and Republicans – who are committed to forging bipartisan cooperation on key issues. It is led by Co-Chairs Tom Reed (NY-23) and Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05). The Caucus launched the Infrastructure Working Group to find consensus on a bipartisan set of policies to serve as the bedrock for a plan that addresses the dire need to rebuild and responsibly invest in infrastructure across the United States. The Infrastructure Working Group met with over one hundred outside stakeholder organizations, the Administration, and leaders in Congress, to develop bipartisan concepts to move an infrastructure plan forward. These bipartisan policy options will be the foundation for a comprehensive plan to improve the nation’s highways, roads and bridges, transit and railways, ports and airports, water and sewer systems, energy systems and the power grid, and broadband and communications networks. Rep. John Katko stated, “In Central New York and across the country, our infrastructure is crumbling. Bridges, roads, and ports have fallen into disrepair and states and local municipalities are not able to plan for the long-term. I was proud to work in a bipartisan manner with Rep. Esty and members of the Problem Solvers Infrastructure Working Group to produce a comprehensive report detailing areas in which we can begin to work together to streamline processes and provide sustainable funding solutions. In doing so, we’ve signaled to President Trump, as well as leaders on both sides of the aisle in the House and Senate, that we are ready to work in a bipartisan manner to move our nation’s infrastructure forward.” “Our country became great because Americans dreamed big, built big, and made bold decisions. Working together, we spanned rivers, electrified rural America, built railroads across the continent, connected cities thousands of miles apart with highways, and moved information faster than humans ever imagined possible,” said Rep. Elizabeth Esty. “Those investments created millions of jobs, led to unprecedented mobility and innovation, and established America as the envy of the world. Today, millions of Americans see aging airports and rightly wonder if we’re still capable of tackling the toughest challenges our country faces in a bold, bipartisan manner. That’s why I’m proud to lead this effort with Congressman Katko and the members of the Problem Solvers Caucus to fix our country’s broken infrastructure and put people back to work. You cannot build a 21st century economy with a mid-20th century infrastructure. It’s time for infrastructure.” “It’s always better for the country when we act together. The bipartisan policy solutions we’ve delivered provide Congress the building blocks necessary to craft a comprehensive infrastructure plan that both parties can agree to,” said Problem Solvers Caucus Co-Chair Tom Reed. “We’ve paved a bipartisan path to get to ‘yes’ and look forward to working with key leaders in Congress to find the right mix of policies to create legislation that can, and should, be enacted into law as soon as possible.” “Today, one-third of the bridges and tunnels in New Jersey are considered unsafe, and we have the eighth worst roads in the country. Too many of our pipes are filled with lead; many of our residents have no access to broadband, at all,” said Problem Solvers Caucus Co-Chair Josh Gottheimer. “Commutes are a disaster, and it’s ruining family time and crippling our economy. We can’t keep kicking this problem down the road. Today's report details options for solving these problems, and it’s a good bipartisan starting point. It’s time to get a better ROI in New Jersey for our existing tax dollars. Under no circumstance can we increase gas taxes or tolls – or any taxes for that matter.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Bipartisan, bicameral legislation introduced in the House by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) to combat the threat of human trafficking was today signed into law by President Trump. The bill, the No Human Trafficking on Our Roads Act, disqualifies an individual from operating a commercial motor vehicle for life if he or she has committed a human trafficking crime. A similar ban is currently in place for drug trafficking, in which a felony conviction carries a lifetime ban. Rep. Katko said, “Too often, human traffickers take advantage of our nation’s transportation network to transport their victims from one location to the next. Truck drivers are often a critical asset in helping law enforcement identify victims who otherwise might go unseen. However, an isolated few individuals have taken advantage of their position to illegally traffic innocent people. This measure will help us stop this from occurring, and I commend the President for recognizing the importance of addressing human trafficking and for signing this measure into law. While the vast majority of our nation’s truck drivers are hardworking, honest men and women, this bill is necessary to ensure that the select few who commit these crimes are brought to justice.” In December, Rep. Katko spoke on the floor of the House in support of the legislation. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass bicameral, bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), the No Human Trafficking on Our Roads Act. This measure disqualifies an individual from operating a commercial motor vehicle for life if he or she committed a human trafficking crime. A similar ban is currently in place for drug trafficking in which a felony conviction carries a lifetime ban. Before the vote, Rep. Katko spoke on the floor of the House in support of the legislation. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below. “I am proud to rise in favor of S. 1532, the ‘No Human Trafficking on Our Roads Act.’ This bipartisan, bicameral bill strengthens our nation’s efforts to combat human trafficking. “As a former organized crime prosecutor on both the northern border and on the southern border, I’ve seen firsthand the horrors of human trafficking. Too often, human traffickers take advantage of our nation’s transportation network to transport their victims from one location to the next. The U.S. Department of Transportation and the transportation industry play a critical role in preventing and stopping these heinous exploitations. “I want to commend the trucking industry for their commitment in training drivers to identify instances of human trafficking through organizations like Truckers Against Trafficking, or TAT. Truck drivers are often a critical asset in helping law enforcement identify victims who otherwise might go unseen. However, an isolated few individuals have taken advantage of their position to illegally traffic innocent people. We must stop this from occurring. “Earlier this year, alongside my good friend Congresswoman Esty, I introduced H.R. 3814, the House companion to the legislation before us. While the vast majority of our nation’s truck drivers are hardworking, honest men and women, our bill is necessary to ensure that the select few who commit these crimes are brought to justice. “I am grateful for the Chairman’s support in moving our bill through the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and bringing this important issue before the floor of the House. “I would also like to thank outside organizations like the National District Attorney’s Association for supporting this legislation. “Again, I would like to thank Representative Esty and Senators Thune and Klobuchar for their bipartisan, bicameral leadership and yield back the balance of my time.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) this week joined a bipartisan group of his New York colleagues to reiterate to leaders in the House the importance of funding the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). In September, Rep. Katko urged his colleagues in Congress to act in a bipartisan manner to reauthorize the program, which expired at the end of that month. While New York currently has sufficient funding to sustain CHIP through the beginning of next year, it is imperative that Congress act urgently to reauthorize this program. In this week’s letter, Rep. Katko stated, “The Children’s Health Insurance Program has been an enormously successful program responsible for dramatically reducing the volume of uninsured children across the nation. In New York State alone, over 300,000 children receive insurance through this vital program, however, the authorization for this has also expired. Congress must take immediate action in order to ensure continuous coverage for the roughly 9 million children benefiting from this program nation-wide. We request that a 5 year extension of CHIP be included in any year-end measure to ensure our nation’s children receive the best care possible.” Together with Medicaid, CHIP serves as the primary source of health insurance for nearly 9 million American children. Issued as a block grant, CHIP is a collaborative program between the federal government and the states. In addition to urging the reauthorization of CHIP, Rep. Katko and his colleagues called for bipartisan action to fund Community Health Centers (CHC) and Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital (DHS) payment reductions, highlighting the importance of acting on each of these items in order to ensure that essential care and services are not interrupted for New Yorkers and Americans nationwide. The full text of the letter can be found here. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following passage in the U.S. House of Representatives today of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement: “Today, with my support, the House passed the first major reform to our nation’s tax code in three decades. Throughout this process, I’ve fought for the best interests of Central New York and I’m proud to have delivered several significant wins. This bill safeguards the Historic Preservation Tax Credit, the income exclusion for graduate tuition waivers, and tax-exempt status for private activity bonds. It doubles the standard deduction, lowers individual rates, expands the Child Tax Credit, and importantly, preserves the local property and income tax deduction. “Despite the heated rhetoric surrounding passage of this legislation, the fact is that the status quo is simply not working for Central New York. Passage of this bill gives us a rare opportunity to level the playing field and put American workers first. I have always fought in the best interest of my constituents. I soundly believe this bill will deliver tax relief for Central New York families and allow local businesses to invest in our workforce. With the passage of this bill today, I’m excited to see our local economy grow and thrive.” As the Tax Cut and Jobs Act moved through the legislative process, Rep. Katko advocated wholeheartedly for Central New York’s interests. As a result, the final version of the bill retains the income exclusion for graduate tuition waivers, the Federal Historic Preservation Tax Credit, and tax-exempt status for private activity bonds (PABs). Rep. Katko also played an instrumental and tangible role in restoring a $10,000 deduction for local property and income taxes. This morning, CNY leaders applauded these efforts. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today highlighted significant wins for Central New York in the final tax reform legislation scheduled for a vote in the House and Senate today. Rep. Katko, who supported the Tax Cut and Jobs Act in the House, continued to advocate for Central New York’s interests as the House and Senate worked together to conference on the bill. Following his advocacy, the final version of the bill retains the income exclusion for graduate tuition waivers, the Federal Historic Preservation Tax Credit, and tax-exempt status for private activity bonds (PABs). “The final tax legislation that the House will consider today contains significant wins for our community. It safeguards the Historic Preservation Tax Credit, the income exclusion for graduate tuition waivers, and tax-exempt status for private activity bonds,” said Rep. Katko. “I was proud to fight for our community’s best interests and truly believe that with passage of this bill, we can help grow our local economy to its fullest potential.” First, the final legislation does not include a tax on graduate tuition waivers. With numerous colleges and universities across NY-24, Central New York is a hub for higher education and research. Throughout this process, Rep. Katko urged leaders to consider the harm a tax on these waivers would place on students and our region’s economic future. “I am grateful to Congressman Katko for his support of higher education, which is such a vital component of our regional economy,” said Le Moyne College President Linda Le Mura. “Many members of the Le Moyne community, as well as our students, contacted him about certain aspects of the bill and he listened to what those concerns were. His support will help institutions of higher education maintain their competitive edge.” Second, the bill retains the Historic Preservation Tax Credit, which has assisted in preserving some of our region’s most historic buildings and has been critical to the revitalization of Downtown Syracuse. This credit has allowed for the rehabilitation of many income-producing properties, increased employment opportunities, and provided low-income housing in some of the most impoverished sectors of our community. Finally, the bill retains tax-exempt status for private activity bonds, which will be instrumental as Congress begins to look towards reforming our nation’s infrastructure. Moreover, tax-exempt bonds are important financing tools for affordable housing, hospitals, and schools in Central New York and communities nationwide. Ben Lockwood, Vice President of Business Development for Housing Visions stated, “As a non-profit affordable housing developer with a mission of neighborhood revitalization, Housing Visions is pleased to see the retention of private activity housing bonds as well as the Historic and New Market Tax Credits. These items are valuable tools that assist to provide safe, decent, affordable housing and also work to revitalize historic structures and neighborhoods throughout Congressman Katko’s district and others. We thank Congressman Katko for listening to our concerns and advocating for these provisions in the final tax bill.” “The original House proposal would have eliminated private activity housing bonds, which help fund 17,000 affordable and supportive homes for low-income and homeless New Yorkers each year. Thankfully, Congressman Katko and others successfully fought to restore this valued program that provides incentive for private investment in affordable housing. The elimination of housing bonds would have destroyed affordable and supportive housing development here and around the country. We thank Congressman Katko for protecting this vital program. The Congressman has been a true champion for the homeless,” said Laura Mascuch, Executive Director of Supportive Housing Network of New York. "Auburn Hospital is grateful for the efforts of Rep. Katko to ensure Private Activity Bonds remain tax-exempt. These are critical financing tools for investment in our hospital and its infrastructure,” said Scott Berlucchi, President & CEO of Auburn Hospital. In addition to advocating for the above issues, Rep. Katko played an instrumental and tangible role in restoring a $10,000 deduction for local property and income taxes. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.18.2017	Washington, D.C.—Today, U.S. Representatives Claudia Tenney (NY-22), Elise Stefanik (NY-21), John Katko (NY-24), Chris Collins (NY-27) and John Faso (NY-19) called on House Leadership to include language in the continuing resolution critical to protecting rural hospitals in Upstate New York. The proposed legislative text would fix an error the Medicare contractor for New York and New England made when determining a Medicare payment adjustment called the Volume Decrease Adjustment (VDA). This error has forced 16 small, rural hospitals to repay over $15 million with a punitive interest rate of over 9 percent. “Rural hospitals across Upstate New York depend on VDA to ensure continued fiscal stability and operation. Small hospitals like Cortland Regional Medical Center, Rome Memorial Hospital and UHS Chenango Memorial Hospital provide exceptional healthcare to those who need it the most in our rural communities. Congress must fix this error to protect our rural providers. I’ll continue to work alongside my colleagues in Upstate New York to secure the inclusion of this important language,” said Congresswoman Tenney. “This ‘clawback’ threatens the financial stability of New York’s Sole Community Hospitals and Medicare Dependent Hospitals,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “These are important providers in rural communities like ours that provide care for seniors, the sick and the most vulnerable. It’s important to rural hospitals in our region that this issue is addressed in any government funding measure.” “Rural hospitals in Auburn and Oswego provide critical care to individuals and families in our community. The financial impacts of volume decrease adjustments would be devastating to these hospitals. It is crucial that Congress prevent these potential cuts and I will continue to fight alongside my New York colleagues to have this addressed in upcoming legislation,” said Congressman Katko. “We must do all we can to help hospitals in rural areas of New York keep their doors open. In an emergency, my constituents need assurance that they have a place to go for treatment. My colleagues from New York and I are pushing for this important amendment to the continuing resolution that would relieve Sole Community Hospitals and Medicare Dependent Hospitals across the state and in my district. Given the challenging nature rural hospitals face regarding patient volume, it is critical to waive repayment to ensure financial security so they can continue to serve our communities,” said Congressman Collins. "Rural hospitals are a vital source of healthcare for Upstate New Yorkers," said Congressman Faso. "Our proposed fix would ensure fairness and prevent hospitals from being forced to pay penalties for a mistake they did not make." The VDA is provided to Medicare Dependent Hospitals (MDH) and Sole Community Hospitals (SCH) that experience significant decreases in patient volume from one year to the next due to circumstances beyond their control. The adjustment is intended to cover some of the costs needed to maintain the core staff and services necessary for continued operation of the hospital during challenging times. Rural community hospitals are financially vulnerable and the VDA is critical to ensure continued operations. The 16 rural hospitals impacted by the VDA are: Adirondack Medical Center Auburn Community Hospital Aurelia Osborn Fox Memorial Hospital Carthage Area Hospital Claxton-Hepburn Medical Center Cortland Regional Medical Center Gouveneur Hospital Jones Memorial Hospital Lewis County General Hospital Massena Memorial Hospital Nathan Littauer Hospital Oswego Hospital Rome Memorial Hospital The University of Vermont Health Network-Champlain Valley Physicians Hospital UHS Chenango Memorial Hospital Wyoming County Community Health System Read the full text of the letter here. ###
12.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives John Katko (R-NY) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA) introduced the Education Assistance to Realign New Eligibilities for Dependents (EARNED) Act, bipartisan legislation that would add an additional category of servicemembers eligible to transfer entitlement to post-9/11 educational assistance. Currently, the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008 allows certain servicemembers to transfer all or some of their unused education benefits to their spouse or dependent children. The EARNED Act would expand that eligibility to any active duty or retired member of the Armed Forces who has at least 20 years of active-duty service, including at least 90 days of such service after September 10, 2001. “Our veterans have made countless sacrifices to protect, defend, and serve this great nation. They answered a call of duty that only the bravest men and women are willing to answer, and we need to do everything we can to help them and their families,” said Congressman Katko. “This legislation adds an additional transferability option under the Post 9/11 GI Bill that would allow servicemembers to transfer all or some of their unused benefits to spouses or dependent children.” “There is no greater responsibility in Congress than to make sure that we take care of those who put on the uniform, both during and after active duty service,” said Congressman Connolly. “The EARNED Act builds on the successful 9/11 GI bill, by ensuring these brave servicemembers have the option to pass along their education benefits to their loved ones. It is a clear win-win. We have another tool for retaining talent and ensuring a strong military, and it allows us to uphold our promise to veterans who have served so honorably.” The ability to transfer education benefits has traditionally been used as a retention tool. Servicemembers with six years of service can transfer their education benefits if they commit to four years of additional service. Additionally, servicemembers with ten years of service, who are precluded from committing to four additional years, can transfer if they agree to serve the maximum amount of time allowed by policy or statute. The EARNED Act would recognize that individuals who have served twenty years have made a sufficient contribution and deserve the ability to transfer their education benefits to dependents. This legislation would still incentivize additional service, but would also allow veterans who have served twenty years to provide education opportunities to their children. Text of the legislation is available here. ###
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As leaders in the House and Senate finalize the Tax Cut and Jobs Act, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) has urged leaders to consider several issues critical to New York’s 24th Congressional District and its economy. In meetings and letters, Rep. Katko urged Speaker Ryan, Majority Leader McConnell, and Chairmen Hatch and Brady to oppose the repeal of the income exclusion for graduate tuition waivers, and to retain the Federal Historic Tax Credit (HTC) and the tax-exempt status for private activity bonds (PABs). “As members of the House and Senate work together to finalize tax reform legislation, there are several provisions that I’ve advocated for on behalf of Central New York,” said Rep. Katko. “First, as home to numerous colleges and universities, Central New York is a hub for higher education and research. Our colleges and universities contribute greatly to our local economy, and a tax on graduate waivers could potentially inhibit the economic growth that tax reform promises for our region.”Rep. Katko continued, “Next, in communities across New York’s 24th Congressional District, we’ve seen the vast economic benefit achieved in preserving some of our region’s oldest and most historic buildings. There is no greater example of this than the revitalization of Downtown Syracuse. Without the Historic Tax Credit, much of our local resurgence would not have been possible. This credit has allowed the rehabilitation of many income-producing properties, increased employment opportunities, and provided low-income housing in some of the most impoverished sectors of our community. It is critical that we continue to encourage and allow these vital investments.” “Finally, as we begin to look towards a much-needed investment in our infrastructure in Congress, the importance of maintaining tax-exempt status for private activity bonds (PABs) cannot be overlooked. As a leader of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus infrastructure workgroup, I recognize that an elimination of the tax exempt status for PABs would inhibit our efforts to make major investments in infrastructure. Moreover, PABs are important financing tools in a wide range of projects in Central New York -- from hospitals and schools to airports and local water facilities,” concluded Rep. Katko. In addition to advocating for the above issues, Rep. Katko has played an instrumental and tangible role in restoring a $10,000 deduction for local property taxes. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25) today asked that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) reconsider aid requests recently denied for Cayuga and Monroe Counties. In order for FEMA to issue a disaster declaration and to provide aid, federal law requires that the initial request come from the Governor. Following a summer of persistently high water levels and unprecedented flooding in communities along the Lake Ontario shoreline, Governor Cuomo officially requested that a major disaster declaration be issued for New York. Reps. Katko and Slaughter, among other members of the New York delegation, urged the President to support the disaster declaration that time. This month, while many other counties in New York State were granted aid, Cayuga and Monroe counties were denied federal assistance. In today’s letter Reps. Katko and Slaughter urged FEMA to reconsider any expedited appeal submitted by the Governor in order to protect and rebuild shoreline communities in Cayuga and Monroe Counties. Reps. Katko and Slaughter stated, “The exclusion of both individual and public assistance for these two counties jeopardizes the recovery efforts for more than 800,000 of our constituents. These grants are essential for the continued operation of several localities along the shoreline as recovery efforts continue to incur high costs.” The full text of the bipartisan letter can be found here and below. Dear Mr. Von Essen: We are writing to express our support for any expedited appeal submitted by New York Governor Andrew Cuomo in response to FEMA’s denial of Individual and Public Assistance for Cayuga and Monroe Counties. The November 14 disaster declaration granted assistance for several counties but failed to include Monroe and Cayuga Counties because FEMA assessed damages in each county to be below the minimum threshold. The exclusion of both individual and public assistance for these two counties jeopardizes the recovery efforts for more than 800,000 of our constituents. These grants are essential for the continued operation of several localities along the shoreline as recovery efforts continue to incur high costs. Considering the recent December 6th denial for July flooding throughout these communities, failure to provide federal assistance will further degrade the ability of these counties to recover from historic flooding. We ask your continued support for hazard mitigation measures to ensure the protection of our shoreline. The protection of the Lake Ontario shoreline is critical for our local economies and hazard mitigation measures provides our localities the flexibility to prevent future disasters. We ask that you please expeditiously consider any appeal that may cover Cayuga and Monroe Counties. Sincerely, John Katko Louise Slaughter Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a bipartisan vote today, the U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee, to ensure that the men and women of the U.S. Secret Service are paid for the overtime they work in 2017 and 2018. Rep. Katko was joined by Rep. Elijah Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, as well as Reps. Trey Gowdy, Michael McCaul, Bennie Thompson, and Bonnie Watson-Coleman, in introducing H.R. 3731, the bipartisan Secret Service Recruitment and Retention Act of 2017. The Secret Service reports more than 1,000 agents—a third of the agent workforce—have already “maxed out” their annual overtime and salary under the pay cap set forth in 5 U.S.C. § 5547, which prohibits agents from being paid for overtime after reaching the maximum annual salary for the pay rate of GS-15. This bipartisan legislation would allow the Secret Service to cover additional overtime earned this year and the next up to level II of the Executive Schedule and require the Secret Service to submit a report to Congress on recruitment and retention efforts. Before the vote, Rep. Katko spoke on the floor of the House in support of the legislation. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3731, the Secret Service Recruitment and Retention Act of 2017, because I believe in the need to pay the hardworking men and women of the United States Secret Service for the critical work that they perform in dedication to the security of America’s leaders. While most Americans know the Secret Service for its role in protecting the President and First Family, many are unaware of the additional roles and countless hours worked by Special Agents, Uniformed Division Officers, technical personnel, and intelligence professionals. These jobs require extensive travel, often on short notice, as well as sometimes working multiple weeks in a row without a day off, because the security of our Nation’s leaders depends on their constant vigilance. “This legislation demonstrates an important recognition of the men and women who wake up every day to dedicate their lives to the protection of America’s leadership and financial systems. This agency has struggled to improve employee morale in recent years, due, in part, to strict overtime pay caps that prevent adequate compensation for their work. This, in turn, leads to challenges in retention and recruitment, further exacerbating staffing shortages. In 2017, the agency estimates that 1,200 employees will exceed the statutory pay cap, losing approximately $10 million in overtime pay unless Congress steps in to help. “I wish to thank each of the bipartisan cosponsors for their support of this bill, which took the cooperation of multiple Committees to bring to the Floor today. In particular, I would like to thank Chairman Goodlatte of the Judiciary Committee for bringing this legislation up today, as well as Chairman Gowdy and Ranking Member Cummings of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee for marking up and supporting the bill in their Committee. Additionally, I would like to thank Chairman McCaul, Ranking Member Thompson, and Ranking Member Watson Coleman of the Homeland Security Committee for their recognition of this legislation’s importance to the Secret Service and for their support. Further, I would like to explicitly thank two staffers who were truly instrumental in coordinating the movement of this bill, Kevin Ortiz of the Oversight Committee and Bobby Parmiter of the Judiciary Committee. “Mr. Speaker, this bill provides overdue relief to an agency whose dedication knows no bounds. As we enjoy this holiday season, I can think of no better Christmas gift to the hardworking men and women of the Secret Service than the compensation that is owed to them for their hard work in securing our nation. For that reason, I strongly urge all of my colleagues to support this bill, and I urge the Senate to quickly take up and pass this bill.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – This evening, legislation authored by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) to reauthorize the Brownfields Program passed the U.S. House of Representatives with broad, bipartisan support. The legislation was included as part of a larger, comprehensive bill, H.R. 3017, the Brownfields Enhancement, Economic Redevelopment, and Reauthorization Act of 2017. Rep. Katko, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, introduced the bipartisan Brownfields Reauthorization Act with U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) earlier this year. The legislation reauthorizes the Brownfields program at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Doing so will help communities in Central New York and nationwide revitalize neighborhoods and spur economic development through Brownfields reassessment and remediation. Rep. Katko spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this evening in support of the legislation. Video of his remarks is available here. Following passage of the bipartisan legislation, Transportation and Infrastructure Committee leaders in released the following statements: Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA): “Every single congressional district has at least one brownfields site, and this bipartisan bill will help put those idle, unused properties back into productive use, providing economic and environmental benefits to communities across the country. I appreciate the work of my colleagues on both the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the Energy and Commerce Committee for collaborating on this bill, and I look forward to its passage in the Senate.” Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR): “The Brownfields Program has a proven record of success – assisting states and communities in the redevelopment of abandoned or underutilized properties by leveraging federal seed money and technical expertise to attract state, local, and private dollars to create jobs and spur economic growth. Congress has heard from mayors, county executives, state officials, and other stakeholders regarding the critical importance of the Brownfields Program. I am proud to work on this bipartisan legislation and I will continue to work with my colleagues to see this critical bill signed into law.” Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Chairman Garret Graves (R-LA): “Every federal dollar invested in the Brownfields Program leverages an average of $16 to $17 to clean up sites, improve property values, create thousands of jobs, and generate more local revenue. This commonsense bill provides for brownfields assessment and cleanup grants, clarifies liability protections, and enables states, local governments, and tribes to revitalize more of America’s communities.” Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Grace Napolitano (D-CA): “Data provided by the EPA shows that since its inception, the Brownfields Program has helped create more than 122,800 jobs, leveraging over $23.6 billion in cleanup and redevelopment funding. For every $1 of brownfields funding, more than $16 of other public and private dollars are leveraged, generating more than eight jobs for every $100,000 of EPA brownfields funds expended. It is undeniable that this program is working as it should and that communities in Southern California and across the nation are benefiting from the investment of federal dollars in remediating these sites. The Brownfields Program has received strong bipartisan backing, and I am pleased to support this legislation to improve upon its successes.” U.S. Rep. John Katko (R-NY), H.R. 3017 cosponsor: “Communities across Central New York know all too well the impact of industrial pollution, and have benefited directly from the EPA Brownfields Program. I’m proud to have worked in a bipartisan manner with Chairman Shuster and Representative Esty to prioritize the reauthorization of this program. With this measure passed through the House, we are one step closer to ensuring industrial sites in our community and across this country are preserved and revitalized.” U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), H.R. 3017 cosponsor: “Today’s passage is an important step to ensure that our communities have every tool available to renew blighted properties and create good-paying jobs. Central and northwestern Connecticut has a long and proud industrial history, but that history has left an unwelcome legacy of brownfield sites throughout our region – from Meriden to Waterbury up to Plymouth and Torrington. Growing our economy and protecting our environment are not mutually-exclusive goals. They go hand-in-hand: every acre of brownfields redevelopment creates close to 10 jobs. This is an incredible opportunity to advance legislation demonstrating our universal commitment to creating jobs and strengthening the communities we are proud to represent.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – This morning, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee approved two bipartisan bills introduced by Rep. John Katko (NY-24) to address human trafficking on the Nation’s highways, as well as sweeping FEMA reform legislation. “This morning’s markup demonstrated what our Committee can accomplish through bipartisan consensus,” said Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA). “We approved significant FEMA reform legislation that shifts our focus to predisaster mitigation in the wake of a historic hurricane season. The human trafficking bills cleared today will help stem the growth of this terrible crime. I look forward to quick consideration of these bills by the House.” H.R. 3814, the “No Human Trafficking on Our Roads Act,” disqualifies individuals from operating a commercial motor vehicle (CMV) for their lifetime if they used a CMV to commit a felony involving human trafficking. “As a former organized crime prosecutor on both the northern border at home in New York and on the southern border in El Paso, Texas, I’ve seen firsthand the horrors of human trafficking,” said Rep. Katko. “Too often, human traffickers take advantage of our nation’s transportation network to transport their victims from one location to the next, and the U.S. Department of Transportation and the transportation industry play a critical role in preventing and stopping these heinous exploitations. I’m grateful for Chairman Shuster’s commitment to ending the crime of human trafficking. I’m proud to work with him and members of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee today to pass two bipartisan pieces of legislation that I’ve authored with Representative Esty to help make our transportation systems safer.” H.R. 3813, the “Combating Human Trafficking in Commercial Vehicles Act,” directs the Secretary of Transportation to designate a human trafficking prevention coordinator, expands the scope of activities authorized under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's outreach and education program and commercial driver’s license financial assistance program to include human trafficking prevention activities, and establishes a human trafficking advisory committee. “Human trafficking is an appalling and inhumane crime – and it’s happening throughout Connecticut and all over the country,” Rep. Esty said. “As I sadly learned firsthand when a human trafficking ring was broken up in my hometown of Cheshire, anyone can become a victim of this crime, regardless of race, age, gender, or socioeconomic status. It’s even worse that the majority of human trafficking incidents exploit young girls sexually: the average age a teen enters the sex trade in the United States is between the ages of 12 and 14. We need to put a stop to this inhumane activity now, which is why I’m proud to have introduced the Combating Human Trafficking in Commercial Vehicles Act.” All bills were approved today by voice vote. More information from today’s markup and the approved legislation can be found here. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.21.2017	Syracuse, New York – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) penned the following op-ed published today on Syracuse.com outlining his position on tax reform legislation that passed the U.S. House of Representatives last week. Rep. Katko: Why I voted for tax reform bill Syracuse.com/The Post Standard By: Rep. John Katko November 21, 2017 Last week, the House of Representatives voted on the first major reform of the United States Tax Code in more than 30 years. Like every bill that comes before the House for a vote, I studied this measure and analyzed its impact on the individuals and families who live and work in our community. After careful deliberation, I cast my vote in favor of this measure. I supported this legislation for two basic reasons: The vast majority of my constituents will receive a tax cut under this plan, and this effort will allow local businesses to invest in Central New York and our workforce. The average family in the 24th Congressional District makes $55,000 per year. Under this legislation, that family would see an average tax cut of $1,000 annually. This is long overdue and necessary relief. In addition to keeping more of what they earn, individuals and families in Central New York will see higher wages and the creation of more jobs due to increased economic growth. The nonpartisan Tax Foundation calculates the bill will lead to the creation of 57,834 new jobs in New York state, and an increase in after-tax income of $2,335 for the average family. This bill nearly doubles the standard deduction amount - which all individuals and families are able to claim - from $6,350 to $12,000 for individual filers and from $12,700 to $24,000 for joint filers. It increases the child tax credit - available to all filers with children - from $1,000 to $1,600 per child, and provides a $300 increase to the family tax credit. These increased deductions and credits not only reduce the tax burden for the majority of working families in Central New York but also eliminate the need for many to itemize deductions. For roughly 90 percent of my constituents, the yearly headache of rounding up receipts, forms and documentation in order to fill out confusing tax forms will be a thing of the past. In addition to the tax cuts this bill will provide for families in my district, it will give local businesses the boost they need to create jobs and grow our local economy. Our business tax rate - currently the highest in the industrialized world - has put our workers at a major disadvantage and lured companies overseas. In Upstate New York, this is evidenced by the abandoned factories peppering our towns. By simply leveling the playing field, this bill will give local businesses and manufacturers the tools they need to invest in our workforce and compete on the world stage. Our local manufacturers have long affirmed the need for comprehensive reforms, which is why this bill has the earned the support of the Manufacturers Association of Central New York (MACNY), the leading organization representing our region's manufacturing base. If this reform becomes law, the vast majority of Central New Yorkers will have more money in their pockets. They will face far fewer headaches in preparing their taxes each year, and our economy, long hobbled by the highest business taxes in the industrialized world, will grow. This bill is not perfect and as this legislation moves forward, I will continue to advocate for the removal of several provisions I oppose, including the elimination of the Historic Preservation Tax Credit and Private Activity Bond credits. I've already worked hard with my New York colleagues to change this bill for the better, by restoring a deduction for local property taxes. When I first ran to represent Central New York in Congress, I pledged to fight to create jobs in our community, to support economic revitalization, and to ensure local families could take home more of what they earn. These are promises I've taken seriously. With the passage of this bill through the House, I believe we've taken the first step away from an antiquated, overly-complex, and broken tax system. That work will continue in the coming weeks as this legislation moves to the Senate. As always, I will be fighting in the best interest of Central New York. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and Tom Suozzi (NY-3) today announced that they have introduced bipartisan legislation geared towards reducing opioid addiction and drug abuse in New York and nationwide. The legislation, introduced in the Senate by Sens. John McCain (R-AZ) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), would limit the initial supply of opioid prescription for acute pain to seven days. When a person is treated for acute pain, such as a broken bone or wisdom teeth extraction, an over-prescription of a painkiller can pave the way to addiction and abuse. This legislation is modeled after current New York State law. Rep. John Katko said, “The opioid drug epidemic has devastated families in Central New York and communities nationwide. This bipartisan bill would target one of the root causes of drug overdoses in the United States, which is the over-prescription of highly addictive opioids. Our legislation limits the supply of an initial opioid prescription for acute pain to seven days. Doing so will reduce over-prescription of painkillers and help reduce the risk of opioid dependency.” “The opioid epidemic is tearing apart families and friends while infecting whole communities on Long Island, Queens and throughout the nation,” said Rep. Suozzi. “Our bipartisan legislation takes a big step toward preventing people from being over-prescribed and beginning a downward spiral towards dependency on opioids.” This legislation would require medical professionals to certify, as part of their DEA registration, that they will not prescribe an opioid as an initial treatment for acute pain in an amount that exceeds a seven-day supply, and may not provide a refill. This limit does not apply to the treatment of chronic pain, pain treated as part of cancer care, hospice or other end of life care, or pain treated as part of palliative care. Those who suffer from drug addiction or know someone who is addicted are encouraged to call the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Helpline: 1-800-622-HELP (4357) for assistance. Reps. Katko and Suozzi released a video message following introduction of this bill, available here. ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following passage in the U.S. House of Representatives today of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement: “Since I first began running for Congress, I’ve advocated for comprehensive tax reform to ensure working families in Central New York can take home more of what they earn and to level the playing field so our local businesses can compete on the world stage. Today, I cast my vote in favor of a bill to start the process of making those promises a reality. “The tax reform legislation before the House today, while not perfect, is a good start. I’ve carefully reviewed this bill and consulted with local families, small business owners, and individuals throughout our community. Their message was clear: our tax code is too complex and it places an unfair burden on working families. Congress must act to change the status quo. Presented today with a bill that provides tax cuts for the vast majority of working families in my district and which will allow our local businesses the opportunity to invest in our workforce, I chose to vote yes. “This process is far from over. As the Senate develops and votes on its own bill and both houses work to send a final measure to the President’s desk, I will continue to put Central New York’s interests first. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.07.2017	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Today, members of the Tuesday Group Caucus elected Rep. John Katko (NY-24) to serve as a Co-Chair of the caucus. He joins Co-Chairs Charlie Dent (PA-15) and Elise Stefanik (NY-21) for the remainder of the 115th Congress. “Tuesday Group is a constructive group of dedicated Members of Congress committed to advancing real solutions, and I’m honored to be selected to serve as co-chair alongside Reps. Dent and Stefanik,” said Rep. Katko. “Despite the gridlock in Washington, I have always worked across the aisle to produce results. Serving in this capacity will strengthen my ability to continue this work as an independent voice for Central New York.” “I am excited to have John serving as a co-chair of the Tuesday Group,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “I’ve been pleased to work with John on issues facing our region and facing our nation since we arrived in Congress together, and there is no one more committed to achieving results for the people he represents. The Tuesday Group is a strong force in our conference for effective governance and we are fortunate to have John as Co-Chair as we seek solutions to many important issues facing our nation.” "John is a strong, principled and pragmatic voice in Congress and I look forward to serving with him as Tuesday Group co-chairs," said Congressman Dent. "Congress faces numerous governing challenges on issues ranging from funding the government and ensuring that we do not default on our nation’s obligations to reforming the tax code and growing the economy to benefit workers and families. I look forward to working with John to advocate for responsible, commonsense solutions to these problems and making Tuesday Group an even stronger force within the Republican Conference." The Tuesday Group is a coalition of more than 50 center-right House Republicans. The members focus on the need to govern – specifically to perform the basic duties of government such as responsible budgeting and an efficient appropriations process. ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) this afternoon provided the following statement regarding the Tax Cut and Jobs Act: “Since I first began running to represent Central New York in Congress, I have advocated for reforms to ensure families can take home more of what they earn and to level the playing field so that small businesses and local manufacturers can grow and thrive. The bill introduced in the House today is a starting point for desperately needed action on tax reform. “For thirty years, progressives have demanded exactly what this bill does – easing of the tax burden on low and middle income working families and eliminating loopholes. Anyone who dismisses this bill outright should be prepared to explain this discrepancy, and detail why hardworking Americans should continue to be taxed at excessive rates. No bill is perfect, which is why we need to keep this process moving forward. As this measure moves through the House over the coming weeks, I will continue to consult with individuals, families, small businesses and manufacturers across my district and seek their feedback. As I always have, I will advocate in Congress to ensure that this measure is a net win for Central New York. “ Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Chairman of the Transportation & Protective Security Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding today’s attack in Manhattan: Tonight, we mourn the lives lost in Manhattan and pray for all who were injured. This brutal attack is a solemn reminder that we must remain ever vigilant in our fight against terrorism. As with any suspected act of terror, we must allow law enforcement and our intelligence community to do their jobs and pursue every lead in this investigation. As a member of the House Homeland Security Committee, I'm committed to fighting to keep our country safe and will continue to work in a bipartisan manner to advance policies to prevent global terrorism from reaching our shores. Our thoughts and prayers remain with the families and loved ones of all affected by this horrific act. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
10.27.2017	North Syracuse, NY – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today reiterated his commitment to standing up for Central New York seniors in Congress. During a visit to North Area Meals on Wheels today, Rep. Katko highlighted efforts in Congress to prevent funding cuts to programs critical to Central New York’s senior population. This afternoon, he will host a telephone town hall conference with seniors. “Since I’ve been in Congress, I’ve fought to help lower the costs of prescription drugs, protect Medicare and Social Security, and worked to bolster research into diseases like Alzheimer’s,” said Rep. Katko. “Today, I am joining local volunteers at North Area Meals on Wheels to highlight the importance of programs like SNAP and CDBG – federal programs which help Meals on Wheels continue to run and ensure seniors in our community have access to nutritional, healthy meals.” Rep. Katko has long been supportive of SNAP, the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program, a program which provides nutritional assistance to Central New York’s senior population, as well as low income individuals. Meals on Wheels accepts SNAP as a form of payment, allowing eligible, low-income seniors access to nutritional assistance. In Congress, Rep. Katko has opposed past budget resolutions, including the House budget this past October, which would have block granted or cut funding for SNAP -- effectively shifting those costs to NYS or making significant changes to eligibility of the program. Additionally, he has advocated for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, which was eliminated in the President’s budget this year. CDBG provides funding to Meals on Wheels nationwide. Rep. Katko joined volunteers today a tour of the facilities at North Area Meals on Wheels and for meal distribution. Last year, North Area Meals on Wheels delivered 115,000 meals across the areas that they serve. Following his visit to North Area Meals on Wheels, Rep. Katko will host a telephone town hall conference with seniors across Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties to highlight the ongoing Medicare Open Enrollment period. He will be joined by experts in areas of Social Security, Medicare, and adult and long-term care services to answer questions. “During the Medicare Open Enrollment Period, seniors may be able to save money or have more efficient coverage by reviewing or updating their plan,” continued Katko. “I encourage Central New York seniors to review their current plans during this time. I’ll be joined today by Medicare and Social Security experts to answer questions about this and other topics important to our community.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This afternoon, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) joined President Trump at the White House as he declared the opioid crisis a national public health emergency. Following the President’s remarks, Rep. Katko issued the following statement: “I applaud the President for declaring the opioid crisis a national public health emergency. The opioid and synthetic drug epidemic has devastated families in Central New York and communities nationwide. Since coming to Congress, I have made addressing this scourge a top priority and we have taken some key bipartisan steps towards increasing resources available to treat and prevent addiction and to support our law enforcement. However, much more attention is needed. “I was glad to hear the President outline the need to address the influx of fentanyls into our country. In Congress, I will continue to advocate for bipartisan legislation I have introduced to make it easier to ban these harmful synthetic substances. “This epidemic is costing our communities greatly, and appreciate the President’s attentiveness to this important issue.” In Congress, Rep. Katko has consistently prioritized addressing the opioid and synthetic drug epidemic, most recently introducing and championing the bipartisan, bicameral SITSA Act, aimed at outlawing synthetic fentanyls. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
10.25.2017	Washington, D.C. - House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee Chairman John Katko (R-NY) led a bipartisan delegation of House lawmakers to Europe and the Middle East last week. Members examined airport security at last point of departure airports and discussed strategic and operational coordination with our foreign partners on counter-terrorism measures, including our partnerships to defeat ISIS and the ongoing refugee crisis, foreign fighter travel, and other national security issues.Chairman McCaul: "Rep. John Katko’s continued leadership in aviation security, last point of departure airports, and on stopping terrorist entry into America has been critical. His most recent work examining security at international airports in the Middle East and Europe will better protect Americans here at home and build upon the Committee’s continuous work to improve airport security."Rep. John Katko: "The timing of this visit to Europe and the Middle East was critical, as terrorists remain intent on taking down aircraft. We must do all that we can to stay ahead of the evolving threat to the global aviation sector. Together with our foreign partners, we must remain vigilant in our efforts to ensure ISIS is not able to infiltrate and exploit refugee resettlement programs. After standing near the doorsteps of terror in the Middle East and speaking with the leaders in each of these countries, I came away knowing in order to keep Americans safer, we must advance collaborative counterterrorism efforts with our allies and deepen our bilateral relationships to raise the standard of global aviation security." Members of the Delegation included:Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee Chairman John Katko (R-NY)Rep. Ron Estes (R-KS), Homeland Security CommitteeRep. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL)Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX), Homeland Security CommitteeRep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Homeland Security Committee Amsterdam, The Netherlands The delegation discussed the important relationships between the U.S. and European Union member states on a wide range of counterterrorism and security issues. The delegation met with senior Dutch and European Union government officials, including the Executive Director of Europol, Rob Wainwright. Members toured Schiphol Airport, the third busiest hub in Europe for passenger and cargo volume, and examined the airport’s use of cutting edge technology for detecting threats to aviation security. Amman, Jordan The delegation examined the strategic and operational coordination between Jordan and the United States on various fronts, including our partnership to defeat ISIS, the ongoing refugee crisis, as well as Jordan’s stability and strong ties to the U.S.​ The group met with His Royal Highness Prince Faisal bin Al-Hussein at Husseiniya Palace. He thanked the delegation for their commitment to Jordan & praised the U.S. for its enduring support. At Za’atri Refugee Camp, members toured facilities that house 83,000 refugees who fled from Syria. They held small group discussions with the refugees and spoke with children in the camp. Frankfurt, Germany Members examined current threats to aviation security and the measures our German partners have in place to screen passengers and aviation workers. The group also discussed the German refugee issue as well as Brexit's impact on air travel within the European community. The delegation toured Frankfurt International Airport, which has more direct flights to the United States than any other airport in the world, and discussed security measures, cooperative efforts, and information-sharing procedures. At the Lufthansa Aviation Center, the group met with airline officials to discuss their security apparatus and risks to international civil aviation. The airline flies 5.8 million passengers a year to the United States. ###
10.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security’s Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee Chairman John Katko (R-NY) continued visiting last point of departure airports with a bipartisan delegation of House lawmakers in Amman, Jordan and Frankfurt, Germany. In Jordan, the delegation toured Queen Alia International Airport, met with His Royal Highness Prince Faisal, visited Za’atri Refugee Camp, and was briefed at the Joint Training Center in Zarqa. The group discussed the strategic and operational coordination between Jordan and the United States on various fronts, including our partnership to defeat ISIS, the ongoing refugee crisis, as well as Jordan’s stability and strong ties to the U.S. The group also toured Frankfurt International Airport and Lufthansa headquarters in Germany, and met with officials at the U.S. Consulate to examine current threats to aviation security and the measures our German partners have in place to screen passengers and aviation workers. The group also discussed the German refugee issue as well as the Brexit impact on air travel within the European community. Chairman Katko offered the following statement on the heels of the delegation’s visit to Amman and Frankfurt. Rep. John Katko: “Terrorists remain intent on taking down aircraft. We must continue to stay ahead of the evolving and persistent threat to the global aviation sector—starting with enhanced coordination and collaboration with foreign partners. Our delegation saw firsthand the security measures in place in both Amman and Frankfurt, including the benefits of legislation I championed last year (P.L. 114-90). After examining three critical last point of departure airports, I remain committed to ensuring the security of passengers and cargo on direct flights into the United States, and building on our shared partnerships."As for the refugee issue, it is clear that it continues to be a focal point of concern within Jordan and the European Union, especially now that the ISIS caliphate is disintegrating and reports indicate that ISIS soldiers are attempting to infiltrate the Middle East and Western Europe through the refugee process." Trip Highlights in Amman, Jordan The delegation toured Queen Alia International Airport, the largest airport in Jordan, to observe Jordan’s civil aviation security procedures and employee screening. Rep. Katko saw the impact of his provision in Public Law 114-190, The FAA Extension, Safety, and Security Act of 2016, which authorized TSA to donate U.S. passenger screening equipment abroad, including Jordan. The group also met with His Royal Highness Prince Faisal bin Al-Hussein at Husseiniya Palace, where His Royal Highness emphasized the need for a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and regional cooperation between other countries in the region. He thanked the delegation for their commitment to Jordan and praised the United States for its enduring support. At Za’atri Refugee Camp, members met with UNHCR personnel, other UN agencies, and NGO partners and toured the camp that is home to 83,000 refugees who fled from Syria. They held small group discussions with the refugees and talked with children in the camp, which proved to be an emotional experience for all. To date, the U.S. has provided more than $1 billion in humanitarian assistance to Jordan to assist with Syrian refugees, which has one of the highest per capita refugee rates in the world. The delegation visited the Joint Training Center in Zarqa, a Jordanian base used for training Border Guard Forces. The Jordan Operational Engagement Program allows the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps to train with and equip the border guard units within the Jordan Armed Forces to support Jordan’s efforts to defeat ISIS. Members participated in a roundtable discussion at the U.S. Embassy in Amman, where they touched on the importance of Jordan’s regional leadership and our strategic cooperation in the Middle East. Trip Highlights from Frankfurt, Germany: The delegation toured Frankfurt International Airport, which has more direct flights to the United States than any other airport in the world, and discussed security measures, cooperative efforts and information-sharing procedures. At the Lufthansa Aviation Center, the group met with airline officials to discuss their security apparatus and risks to international civil aviation and visited their crisis operations center. The airline flies 5.8 million passengers a year to the U.S. Members were briefed by U.S. officials at the U.S. Consulate in Frankfurt on the political landscape in Germany, Europe’s security posture, and the impact of Brexit on the EU. Members of the Delegation included:Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee Chairman John Katko (R-NY)Rep. Ron Estes (R-KS), Homeland Security CommitteeRep. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL)Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX), Homeland Security CommitteeRep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Homeland Security Committee # # #
10.23.2017	Syracuse, New York – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today announced that NY-24 students seeking a Congressional nomination to a U.S. Service Academy must submit their completed applications by Friday, November 3, 2017. The honor of attending a service academy comes with the obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. Congressional nominations are required for students seeking admission to the U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy or U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. A nomination is not required for the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. Congressman Katko may nominate up to ten individuals for each vacant academy slot allotted to his district. Students graduating from high school on or before July 1, 2018 are eligible to apply for a nomination. The application requires: Completed application form Photo of the candidate 500-word personal statement Resume Two recommendation letters (One Academic and One Non-Academic) Academic transcripts Standardized test scores The full application form is currently available on Congressman Katko’s website here. Questions can be directed to Mike Fandrich in Congressman Katko’s Syracuse District Office at 315-423-5657 or michael.fandrich@mail.house.gov. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
10.18.2017	Amsterdam – House Homeland Security’s Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee Chairman John Katko (R-NY) is leading a bipartisan delegation of House lawmakers to Amsterdam and other European and Middle Eastern destinations. In Holland, the delegation met with senior Dutch and European Union government officials, including the Executive Director of Europol. The group discussed the important relationships between the U.S. and the European Union member states on a wide range of counterterrorism and security issues facing the region. Chairman Katko offered the following statement on heels of the delegation’s visit to the Netherlands: Rep. John Katko: “Our delegation saw firsthand the investment our Dutch partners have made to enhance airport passenger and employee screening as Europe continues to face an unprecedented threat landscape. Our meetings at Europol and the National Coordinator for Counterterrorism and Security emphasized the need to enhance information exchanges among EU member states to better combat terror. I look forward to working to broaden and deepen our bilateral relationships and our collaborative counterterrorism efforts to raise the standard of global aviation security."Members of the Delegation include:Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee Chairman John Katko (R-NY)Rep. Ron Estes (R-KS), Homeland Security CommitteeRep. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL)Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX), Homeland Security CommitteeRep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Homeland Security CommitteeTrip Highlights: Members toured Schiphol Airport, the third busiest hub in Europe for passenger and cargo volume, and examined the airport’s use of cutting edge technology for detecting threats to aviation security. The delegation visited Europol, the EU’s law enforcement agency, and met with Executive Director Rob Wainwright to discuss coordination and information sharing on issues related to terrorism, international organized crime, and cybercrime. At the Port of Rotterdam, the delegation examined port security and detection efforts in discussions with U.S. Customs Officers and the Deputy Harbor Master in order to better understand the pre-screening of U.S.-bound maritime cargo for dangerous substances and explosives at Europe’s largest port. The group also met with our Dutch counterterrorism partners, the National Coordinator for Counterterrorism and Security (NCTV), on cyber threats, the current terror threat assessment in the region, and new Dutch counterterrorism measures. Members also held a roundtable discussion with U.S. Government officials at the U.S. Consulate in Amsterdam to engage on U.S. efforts to enhance security cooperation and mitigate terror threats to the United States. This discussion included representatives from the Department of Homeland Security, Department of State, Department of Defense, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. # # #
09.29.2017	Syracuse, New York – Today, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) highlighted the importance of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and urged his colleagues in Congress to act in a bipartisan manner to reauthorize the program, which is set to expire tomorrow, Sept. 30, 2017. “CHIP is a vital program that ensures millions of children in New York and across the country have access to comprehensive healthcare. While New York currently has sufficient funding to sustain CHIP through the end of this year, it is imperative that Congress act urgently to reauthorize this program. “Vulnerable children in communities across our country – including Syracuse, where a resounding fifty percent of our children are born into poverty – rely on this program for access to healthcare. There is longstanding, bipartisan support in Congress for CHIP and I urge my colleagues to prioritize its reauthorization so that healthcare coverage remains uninterrupted and states have the certainty they need to plan for the long term. With legislation pending in the House to reauthorize CHIP, I am hopeful that it will move quickly through Congress so that we can eliminate any uncertainty associated with the future of this critical program.” Together with Medicaid, CHIP serves as the primary source of health insurance for 8.9 million American children. Issued as a block grant, CHIP is a collaborative program between the federal government and the states. The House Energy & Commerce Committee is set to mark up legislation next week to extend CHIP funding. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.21.2017	Syracuse, NY - U.S. Reps. John Katko (R-NY) and Elizabeth Esty (D-CT) today announced the introduction of two bipartisan measures to combat human trafficking. The bills, the No Human Trafficking on Our Roads Act and the Combating Human Trafficking in Commercial Vehicles Act, were previously introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Thune (R-SD) and Klobuchar (D-MN). “As a former organized crime prosecutor on both the northern border at home in New York and on the southern border in El Paso, Texas, I’ve seen firsthand the horrors of human trafficking. As Central New York’s representative in Congress, I’ve remained engaged locally and worked together with our federal and local law enforcement and community stakeholders to continue to address this issue,” said Rep. Katko. “Often, human traffickers take advantage of our nation’s transportation systems to transport their victims, and the U.S. Department of Transportation and the transportation industry play a critical role in preventing and stopping these heinous exploitations. I’m proud to join with my colleague on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, Rep. Esty, to introduce two comprehensive measures today to help recognize and prevent the crime of human trafficking.” “Human trafficking is an inhumane crime, and is occurring in communities all over our state and throughout America. All too often human trafficking is swept under the rug, assumed to be a crime that happens somewhere else to someone else. As I learned when a human trafficking ring was arrested in my hometown, anyone can become a victim of human trafficking, regardless of race, age, gender, or socio-economic status. I am proud to work with my friend and colleague Republican Rep. John Katko to address this often-invisible but incredibly harmful crime. Our bipartisan bills will empower the U.S. Department of Transportation to combat human trafficking by giving them the tools they need to stop criminals in their tracks across our nation’s transportation network,” Rep. Esty said. Below is information on the bills introduced today: The No Human Trafficking on Our Roads Act establishes a lifetime ban on Commercial Driver’s License (CDL) holders who are convicted of a human trafficking felony. A similar lifetime ban for CDL holders exists for drug trafficking. The Combating Human Trafficking in Commercial Vehicles Act focuses on the prevention of human trafficking by designating a human trafficking prevention coordinator at the U.S. Department of Transportation. It increases outreach, education, and reporting efforts at the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. Human trafficking is a significant, global problem. The FBI has reported that sex trafficking is the fastest-growing business of organized crime and the third-largest criminal enterprise in the world and can include forced labor, domestic servitude, and commercial sex trafficking. ###
09.18.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement concerning the confirmation of toxic algal blooms in Skaneateles Lake: “While the City of Syracuse has assured residents its drinking water systems remain safe, the severe threat of Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) must not be taken lightly. With HABs affecting our community in Owasco Lake, and now Skaneateles, it is clear that threats to our drinking water must be continually monitored and confronted. Elected officials at all levels of government must remain vitally conscious as we address this issue. “In Congress, I’ve prioritized strengthening water infrastructure and advocated for robust funding to both protect and update our water systems and to conduct much-needed research into why HABs occur and to more clearly identify the threats they pose to human health and the economy. I will continue to pursue every opportunity to address this issue on the federal level and to ensure that families and businesses across Central New York have access to safe, clean water.” Rep. Katko has focused intensively on combating the scourge of HABs and strengthening water infrastructure: Earlier this month, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously approved an amendment introduced by Rep. Katko to restore $250 million to the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (SRF). The SRF is the primary federal program that provides financial assistance for states and local communities nationwide to make high priority water investments. The majority of public water systems and municipalities across Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties depend on these funds to maintain and repair local water infrastructure. Clean Water State Revolving funds can be used for a wide range of water infrastructure projects, including nonpoint source pollution management programs, storm water drainage improvements, and watershed projects, all of which can assist in reducing and preventing HABs. With Rep. Katko’s support, the House acted to require the federal government to lay out a plan to better deal with algal blooms, and Rep. Katko led an effort requesting that Congress fully fund the USGS Toxic Substances Hydrology Account to research these outbreaks and find ways of mitigating them. In January 2017, Rep. Katko joined a bipartisan group of his colleagues in urging then President-elect Donald Trump to include robust funding in his budget to combat harmful algal blooms and to conduct research into why blooms occur. Rep. Katko has called for the permanent reauthorization of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GRLI), which assists with major cleanups, invasive species control, habitat restoration for native species, and pollution research and prevention in communities nationwide and the 24th Congressional District. Cosponsored H.R. 2853, the Agriculture Environmental Stewardship Act of 2017, legislation to make technology more readily available and affordable so that farmers may prevent nutrient output and runoff. Co-led an effort in the House to increase funding for the U.S. Department of Agriculture Water and Sewer Loan & Grant Program, which provides loans with reasonable terms, as well as grants, to small and rural communities to develop wastewater and drinking water infrastructure. Rep. Katko also advocated for increased funding for the Circuit Riders Program, which provides technical assistance to small communities to help with compliance with water regulations, and water facility operations.
09.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. John Katko (R-NY) and Don Beyer (D-VA) this week announced the formation of a new bipartisan House Suicide Prevention Task Force. The launch of the Suicide Prevention Task Force came as mental health advocates marked the 42nd annual National Suicide Prevention Week. Rep. John Katko said, “Suicide has affected far too many families in Central New York and in communities nationwide. It is clear there is a vital need to raise awareness for suicide prevention and to reduce the stigma associated with seeking mental healthcare. I’m proud to join together with a bipartisan group of my colleagues to launch this Task Force so that we can work to combat the prevalence of suicide and to provide greater support for those suffering with mental health issues.” “Suicide is a tragedy which affects all of us, and it is incumbent upon all of us to do what we can to prevent it,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “I have lost so many friends who took their lives during a time of crisis, losses I feel particularly keenly during September, which is Suicide Prevention Month. There is more that Congress can do to raise awareness and save lives, and that’s why we have formed this Task Force.” The Task Force will be part of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, founded and chaired by Rep. Grace Napolitano (D-CA). “Suicide affects all demographics, but because of stigma we still do not speak about it,” said Rep. Grace Napolitano. “It is vital that we continue to educate our colleagues and find ways to address this epidemic in a bipartisan manner. As Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, I look forward to supporting the efforts of the Suicide Prevention Taskforce and thank Congressmen Beyer and Katko for their leadership.” The suicide rate in the US rose to a 30-year high in 2016, compounded by the opioid crisis and an alarmingly high veteran suicide rate. “As the nation’s largest suicide prevention organization, the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention knows how important it is to make suicide prevention a higher priority in our country. By forming a task force, Representatives Beyer, Katko, and Napolitano are encouraging other members of Congress to recognize the importance of this issue. Their dedication and time spent on this will help save lives. We encourage others on Capitol Hill to join them,” said Robert Gebbia, AFSP CEO. Those who are in crisis or know someone in crisis are encouraged call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255) for help. ###
09.11.2017	Washington, D.C. (Sept. 11, 2017)—Today, Rep. John Katko, the Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee, and Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, were joined by Reps. Trey Gowdy, Michael McCaul, Bennie Thompson, and Bonnie Watson-Coleman, in introducing H.R. 3731, the Secret Service Recruitment and Retention Act of 2017, in a bipartisan effort to ensure that the men and women of the U.S. Secret Service are paid for the overtime they work in 2017 and 2018. “The men and women of the Secret Service deserve to be paid for the hours they work, period,” said Chairman Katko and Ranking Member Cummings. “They put their lives on the line every day and make tremendous personal sacrifices for our country. We cannot expect the Secret Service to recruit and retain the best of the best if they are not being compensated for the additional work that is demanded of them.” The Secret Service reports more than 1,000 agents—a third of the agent workforce—have already “maxed out” their annual overtime and salary under the pay cap set forth in 5 U.S.C. § 5547, which prohibits agents from being paid for overtime after reaching the maximum annual salary for the pay rate of GS-15. This bipartisan legislation would allow the Secret Service to cover additional overtime earned this year and the next up to level II of the Executive Schedule and require the Secret Service to submit a report to Congress on recruitment and retention efforts. Last year, similar legislation funded overtime pay for 1,400 Secret Service employees in the 2016 presidential campaign year. On Wednesday, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform will hold a business meeting to consider the legislation. Click here to see a copy of the bill.
09.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday evening, the House of Representatives unanimously approved an amendment offered by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) to restore critical water infrastructure funding to the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (SRF). Rep. Katko, who has long advocated for numerous programs to strengthen water infrastructure in Central New York, offered the amendment to increase the Clean Water State Revolving Fund by $250 million, maintaining fiscal year 2017 levels. The SRF is the primary federal program that provides financial assistance for states and local communities nationwide to make high priority water investments. The majority of public water systems and municipalities across Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties depend on these funds to maintain and repair local water infrastructure. Earlier this week, President Trump announced his opposition to cutting this funding. “In Central New York and communities nationwide, municipalities are faced with aging water infrastructure. This poses a growing threat to economic growth, public health, and our environment. The state revolving funds are a proven, critical tool for States and local communities to make high priority water infrastructure investments that may not otherwise be feasible,” said. Rep. Katko. “In approving this amendment, the House restored $250 million to the Clean Water State Revolving Fund, and will ensure that families across Central New York and our country have access to clean, safe water.” Speaking on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday evening prior to the vote, Rep. Katko urged passage of the amendment, and noted that Onondaga County has leveraged over $20 million in funding this year through the State Revolving Funds to upgrade the Syracuse-Metro sewage treatment plan to continue to improve the water quality of Onondaga Lake. Longstanding bipartisan support for the SRFs has helped to address growing infrastructure gaps nationwide and investment needed to maintain clean and safe water infrastructure throughout the country. With the EPA estimating our national twenty-year capital improvement need to be over $650 billion for drinking water and wastewater infrastructure combined, the SRF program ensures local communities have access to affordable financing. “Aging water infrastructure, throughout Central New York, is a present and ongoing issue and State Revolving Funds are critical with respect to affordable reinvestment in our drinking water systems, wastewater systems and the overall protection of our vital water resources. We are pleased that Congressman Katko protected this important funding that all Central New Yorkers rely on to provide safe, clean water to all our residents,” said Michael E. Hooker, Executive Director, Onondaga County Water Authority. County Executive Joanie Mahoney said, “Onondaga County is proud of its record of investing in our water infrastructure. This funding will ensure that we able to continue making investments in our water systems so that residents and businesses are provided with clean, reliable water. Thank you to Congressman Katko for leading the fight on the federal level.” “The City of Owego has directly benefited from the Clean Water State Revolving Fund in the past and will continue to take advantage of such crucial funding opportunities,” stated City of Oswego Mayor Billy Barlow. “I applaud Congressman Katko for his continued third work and focus on the critical needs of Central New York communities like Oswego and for giving local municipalities the proper resources to address some of our most pressing needs.” Adam Krantz, CEO, National Association of Clean Water Agencies said, “The National Association of Clean Water Agencies (NACWA) was extremely pleased and grateful that the House voted to restore $250 million to the Clean Water State Revolving Fund in Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18), which would maintain FY17 levels and avoid damaging and drastic cuts. The CWSRF is a critical funding tool for clean water agencies and its strong bipartisan support reflects its successful track record in local communities around the country. We thank Rep. Katko for his leadership.” “Wastewater treatment plants provide clean sanitation services to over 240 million Americans, and this program is a lifeline to ensure these utilities remain in good working order and continue to improve water quality. With wastewater getting a ‘D+’ in the latest Infrastructure Report Card, we applaud Rep. Katko’s efforts to restore this critical low-cost financing source for states and communities,” said Norma Jean Mattei, P.E., Ph.D., president, American Society of Civil Engineers. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives John Katko (NY-24) and Elijah Cummings (MD-7) today renewed their bipartisan effort to honor the life of Harriet Tubman. Together, they introduced The Harriet Tubman Tribute Act, bipartisan legislation which would require the Secretary of the Treasury to place Harriet Tubman’s likeness on the $20 bill beginning in 2020. During the 114th Congress, Reps. Katko and Cummings introduced legislation to require Harriet Tubman’s likeness be placed on a federal reserve note. “Harriet Tubman is a hero who bravely led countless Americans to freedom and opportunity, courageously fought for her country, and was an outspoken advocate for women’s suffrage. With the Harriet Tubman Home in Auburn now a National Historic Park, Central New Yorkers are proud to honor her legacy and rich history in our community,” said Rep. John Katko. “Last week, I called on the Treasury Secretary to move forward with memorializing Harriet Tubman’s likeness on the $20 bill, and today I’m proud to once again introduce legislation with Rep. Cummings to honor the life of Harriet Tubman and her incredible contributions to this great nation.” "Too often, our nation does not do enough to honor the contributions of women in American history, especially women of color," Rep. Cummings said. "Harriet Tubman was called the Moses of her people, because after she escaped slavery, she courageously made 19 trips to the South to free more than 300 enslaved African Americans. Her courage, conviction and commitment to equality represent the best of America and it is long past time we recognize her place in history. I am proud to introduce this bill with Rep. Katko to honor Harriet Tubman’s role in making America a more free and more equal society." ###
09.01.2017	Syracuse, New York – In a letter sent today to U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) reiterated his call to memorialize Harriet Tubman’s likeness on the $20 bill and urged the Administration to formally move forward with the designation. “I have long stated the need for U.S. currency to honor and celebrate the accomplishments of American women, and applauded last year’s decision to feature Harriet Tubman on the $20 bill,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Auburn is a place that Harriet Tubman once called home, and Central New York is proud to showcase and celebrate her amazing legacy. Today, I reiterated to the current Administration the importance of memorializing Harriet Tubman’s legacy, courage, and commitment to others on the $20 bill and urged Treasury to move forward with this designation.” During the 114th Congress, Rep. Katko and Rep. Elijah Cummings (MD-7) introduced The Harriet Tubman Tribute Act, bipartisan legislation to require the Secretary of the Treasury to place Harriet Tubman’s likeness on a Federal Reserve Note. The text of Rep. Katko’s letter can be found below. The Honorable Steven Mnuchin United States Secretary of the Treasury U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Secretary Mnuchin, I respectfully express my support for memorializing Harriet Tubman's likeness on the $20 bill. Moving forward with this decision is a fitting tribute to a woman who escaped slavery and devoted her life to advancing the freedom and equality of African Americans and the rights of women. As you may know, Harriet Tubman resided for many years in Auburn, New York, a city which I am privileged to represent and a community that is proud to celebrate her legacy. The city of Auburn continually looks for ways to preserve her extraordinary life’s work and through the hard work of many local advocates, Harriet Tubman’s home in Auburn was recently designated as a National Historic Park. Last Congress, Representative Elijah Cummings and I introduced legislation that would have required the Treasury to put Harriet Tubman’s likeness on a fiscal note. I was very pleased to see action taken in this regard when former Secretary Lew announced a decision in April 2016. I invite you to pay a visit to Auburn so that you can fully experience the legacy of Harriet Tubman. Her life has inspired countless individuals and continues to be a beacon of hope and unity for many. It is only fitting that we honor this American hero by memorializing her likeness on the $20 bill. Thank you for consideration in this matter. Sincerely, John Katko Member of Congress Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
08.04.2017	SYRACUSE, N.Y. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that the City of Fulton, New York, has been awarded a $250,000 grant from the Northern Border Regional Commission’s (NBRC) Economic and Infrastructure Development Investment Program. Representative Katko supported the application submitted by the City of Fulton’s Community Development Agency for this federal funding. “As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I recognize how important strong water infrastructure systems are for local municipalities in Central New York and across the nation,” said U.S. Rep. Katko. “I commend the City of Fulton’s Community Development Agency for its efforts to spur economic growth and help revitalize distressed neighborhoods by updating and replacing vital infrastructure, and I was proud to support this application for funding.” According to the City of Fulton’s grant application, this grant will allow the City of Fulton to properly size and place over 3,800 linear feet of water and sewer mains and update storm sewer lines at the former site of the Fulton Nestle facility. Once completed, this site will create eight new divided commercial and retail lots that, when developed, will have the capacity to create and support over 200 local jobs. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
08.03.2017	Syracuse, New York – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he will host a public forum this month focused on Wayne County’s vast agriculture economy. The event will be held Tuesday, August 15 at 7:00 p.m. in the community room at the Wayne County Public Safety Building. Like past community forums on issues of importance to the 24th Congressional District, Rep. Katko will be joined by a panel of local experts to answer questions. “Agriculture is a key driver for Wayne County’s economy, and I’m committed to fighting for policies that will help our local family farms grow and thrive. As Congress begins its work on the upcoming Farm Bill, it is critical that I take the input of my constituents back to Washington,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “I look forward to hearing from our community, and engaging with local farmers and growers at this forum.” The event is Katko’s eighth public community forum since 2015. The event is free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Time will be allotted for questions. Details are as follows: Strengthening Agriculture in Wayne CountyTuesday, August 15 at 7:00 p.m. Community Room, Wayne Count Public Safety Building 7376 State Route 31 Lyons, New York 14489 The meeting will be moderated by New York State Assemblyman Bob Oaks (130th District). Panelists include: Julia Foster, Wayne County Executive Director, Farm Service Agency, U.S. Department of Agriculture Zach Debadts, President, Wayne County Farm Bureau Cynthia Haskins, President/CEO, New York Apple Association Brian Pincelli, Director, Wayne County Economic Development & Planning Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
08.03.2017	Syracuse, New York – Today, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) released its Northern Border Threat Assessment. The issuance of this report was the direct result of legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) that was signed into law last year, the Northern Border Security Review Act. Katko’s measure required the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a much-needed analysis of current and potential threats along our nation’s northern border. “As a federal prosecutor, I worked on both the northern border in New York and on the southern border in El Paso, Texas. I’ve seen first-hand the unique issues our nation faces countering drug trafficking and potential terrorist acts on each of our borders,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “This report identifies several areas where we can improve border security – especially in combating drug trafficking and preventing potential acts of terrorism. Stopping the influx of drugs coming into our country through the Northern border is of particular concern, given the heroin and opioid epidemic plaguing Central New York. I look forward to continuing my work on the House Homeland Security Committee to close these capability gaps together with DHS and our partners in Canada.” Among the findings in report, it details that: The largest issue on the Northern Border remains the trafficking of drugs; Large and differing terrain along the northern border provide opportunities for nefarious individuals to potentially enter the United States undetected; The U.S.-Canadian partnership remains strong and crucial for interdicting drugs, international criminals, and potential terrorists; and Pre-clearance programs for expedited travel between the U.S. and Canada remain imperative. The report, issued this morning, can be found here. Moving forward, DHS will take steps to address the issues and weaknesses outlined by the report. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) today announced bipartisan legislation to increase tick-borne illness prevention and improve public health efforts in states like New York with high rates of tick-borne diseases. “With steady increases in cases of tick-borne illnesses, like Lyme disease and Powassan, in Central and Upstate New York, it is critical that we work to move the ball forward on public health efforts to combat these diseases,” said Rep. John Katko. “The bipartisan legislation that I’ve introduced with Rep. Maloney will strengthen tick prevention efforts both through education and research.” The Tick Identification Pilot Program Act of 2017 works to educate the general public on general tick-bite prevention methods, engage the public on tick-borne illnesses to improve public health outcomes, and collect data on tick populations as well as the frequency, seasonality, and geographic locations of tick encounters and/or bites. Specifically, this legislation would establish a pilot grant program under the CDC allowing states to apply for grants to establish tick identification programs. The tick identification programs would allow individuals to send pictures of ticks they encounter to a vector-borne biologist who would identify the tick and respond to the individual with: The species and life stage of the tick; An estimate of the risk that the tick is carrying a disease; A recommendation of the best practices for the individual who encountered the tick (including seeking medical evaluation and submitting the tick for testing); Additional education on best methods to avoid ticks and prevent contagion of tick-borne illnesses. New York is home to one of four national Centers for Excellence in Vector Borne Diseases, funded by the CDC. Operated by Cornell University in Ithaca, NY, the Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne Diseases leads our region in research on tick populations and tick-borne illnesses. The resources already available to the Center make it a prime host for a tick identification program in New York State. “If you’re out hiking with your family or working on your farm and you get a tick bite, you should be able to get your hands on the tools you need to determine your level of risk and figure out your next steps,” said Rep. Maloney. “This pilot program will help states like New York bring our public outreach and education into the 21st century and give our people some peace of mind when they’re out enjoying nature.” “This legislation is timely. Tick-borne disease threats in New York State are at an all-time high. There is a critical need for more information on expanding tick distributions, as well as the development of new strategies and landscape management for controlling and reducing New York’s exposure to ticks and diseases, such as Lyme disease, babesiosis, Powassan/deer tick virus and other novel tick-borne parasites that are poised to invade our region,” said Laura Harrington, Program Director of the CDC Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector-borne Diseases. “In addition, much of the public information about ticks and Lyme disease in the region is inaccurate. The Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector-Borne Diseases is uniquely poised to address these issues for citizens of New York State and the greater Northeast region.” Philip Baker, Executive Director of the American Lyme Disease Foundation, said, "The American Lyme Disease Foundation supports this legislation. It is likely to provide useful information in the development of programs for the control of tick-borne diseases, especially in areas where such infections are endemic.” “Oswego County has seen increased Lyme diseases cases year by year over the past several years, from five cases in 2009 to 106 in 2017. Our county has worked hard to educate students, parents, the outdoorsman community, and the general public about tick-borne illnesses and the best practices to prevent tick bites. Congressman Katko’s bill will help rural counties like Oswego to strengthen tick-borne illness prevention efforts and aims to curb disease rates,” said Jiancheng Huang, Director of Public Health, Oswego County, NY. As a result of the rapidly rising number of tick-borne disease cases in New York State, a bipartisan group of members from the New York delegation have cosponsored the Tick Identification Pilot Program Act of 2017, including Reps. King (NY-02), Clarke (NY-09), Engel (NY-16), Tonko (NY-20), Stefanik (NY-21), Tenney (NY-22), Reed (NY-23), Donovan (NY-11), and Faso (NY-19.) Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) announced that bipartisan legislation he introduced to preserve the EPA Brownfields Program has moved forward in the House, overwhelmingly passing out of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. The Brownfields Reauthorization Act of 2017 would reauthorize the Brownfields program at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), helping communities in Central New York and nationwide revitalize neighborhoods and spur economic development through Brownfields reassessment and remediation. In the 24th Congressional District, Auburn, Wolcott, Fulton, Oswego, and Syracuse have benefited from this program. “Communities across Central New York know all too well the impact of industrial pollution, and have benefited directly from the EPA Brownfields Program,” said Rep. John Katko. “With the approval of this measure by the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, we are one step closer to ensuring industrial sites in our community and across this country are preserved and revitalized.” Brownfields are segments of land that were once used for industrial purposes or commercial use. Often, this land is contaminated with hazardous waste or pollution, and requires environmental remediation. Originally authorized in 2002, the EPA’s Brownfield Program empowers states, communities, and stakeholders to assess, clean up, and redevelop these sites. However, the EPA’s Brownfield program expired in 2006, though it has continued to receive nominal funding. This legislation would reauthorize the EPA Brownfields program through Fiscal Year 2022, at a rate of $200 million per year and the State Response Program at a rate of $50 million per year. It would also increase the cleanup grant amount from $200,000 to $600,000, as well as expand eligibility requirements to certain nonprofits, limited liability corporations, limited partnerships, and community development entities. Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney said, “The Brownfields program continues to be a vital tool for our community and I am happy to hear this measure has been approved by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. I thank Rep. Katko for his leadership on preserving and enhancing this valuable program.” “Congressman Katko can be credited for his leadership on this issue. The US EPA Brownfield programs have been and continue to be critical in fostering the redevelopment and reuse of blighted sites in our city. It is the redevelopment and reuse of these sites that will ultimately clean our environment, create recreational opportunities, provide employment, and revitalize our neighborhoods. We thank the Congressman for fighting to save this valuable federal government program,” stated City of Auburn Mayor Michael D. Quill. City of Oswego Mayor Billy Barlow said, “Congressman Katko’s legislation will help create additional opportunities and provides more resources for Central New York communities like Oswego to revitalize their downtowns, convert vacant land into developable property and gives localities another tool at their disposal to rejuvenate and grow.” House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster said, “I commend Congressman Katko for his leadership on this bill that will benefit communities across the country through the revitalization and return to productivity of potentially contaminated and abandoned properties.” It is estimated that there are over 450,000 brownfield sites across the country, with at least one brownfield site in every congressional district. Of these sites, 59,000 areas have been remediated and revitalized. According to a 2007 study, every acre of brownfields redevelopment creates approximately ten jobs. Additionally, on average, for every $1 dollar spent through the EPA’s Brownfields program leverages an average of $18 in outside investment. Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.18.2017	Washington, DC- Today, Congresswoman Claudia Tenney (NY-22) is calling for reforms to the Margin Protection Program for Dairy (MPP-Dairy) in the Fiscal Year 2018 Farm Bill. In a sent a letter to Rep. Mike Conaway, Chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture, Tenney joined New York Reps. John Faso (NY-19), Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Tom Reed (NY-23) John Katko (NY-24) and Chris Collins (NY-27) in requesting reforms to the 2018 Farm Bill that would make programs more effective for family farmers in upstate New York. Although the MPP-Dairy program is fairly new, it has underperformed for the farmers of New York State in its first two years. Throughout the nation, dairy producers paid millions of dollars in premium payments, but received very little return on their investments. Important reforms to the MPP-Dairy program include reducing premium rates, and providing a viable safety net for dairy farmers in the coming years. “In the 22nd District, family farmers are the backbone of our communities and economy,” said Congresswoman Tenney. “That’s why I’m working to ensure that our policies help family farmers grow and compete. Excessive premiums in the MPP-Dairy program only hurt small and medium sized farmers. Reforming the MPP-Dairy program will make the program more effective and affordable for dairy farmers throughout upstate.” “The dairy industry is vitally important to Upstate economies and the people across the country who consume dairy products on a daily basis. The Dairy Margin Protection Program, while well-intentioned, is in need of reforms that will make it more usable for farmers. As we consider the 2018 Farm Bill we must also consider programs like this and the need for reforms to better serve our nation’s dairy farmers,” said Congressman Faso. “As we work toward the next Farm Bill, I will continue to fight for the priorities of our North Country farmers,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Dairy is critical to our agriculture economy and I am pleased to join my colleagues on this important push to support our local farmers.” “Hardworking farmers across Upstate New York deserve to compete on an even playing field. I am happy to join with others in the New York delegation in calling for reforms to the MPP-Dairy program. New York dairy farmers deserve to benefit from their investment in this program,” said Congressman Reed. “Central New York’s vast dairy industry is vital to our local economy, and I’m committed to fighting for policies that will ensure small, family farms can grow and thrive,” said Congressman Katko. “As the House begins its work on the Farm Bill, I’ve joined with my colleagues from across the region to highlight the need to improve MPP-Dairy and ensure this program is affordable and efficient for small family farms in New York State.” “All stakeholders know that reforms need to be made to the MPP, and the dairy farmers in Western New York deserve a workable program that aids in their success. We look forward to working with Chairman Conaway and the Agriculture committee to find a solution that makes this program more effective and affordable,” said Congressman Collins. As the fourth largest milk-producing state in the nation, local economies throughout New York rely heavily on the nearly 5,000 family owned dairy farms. Local farms provide a number of jobs that help to stabilize rural upstate communities, while making significant impacts on the national agricultural and food manufacturing industry. The full text of the letter can be found below. 07/14/2017 The Honorable Mike Conaway Chairman House Committee on Agriculture 1301 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Conaway: As members of Congress representing Upstate New York’s dairy industry, we thank you for your early start to the 2018 Farm Bill process and we are grateful for your efforts to complete the Farm Bill on time. We appreciate you being a steadfast advocate for rural America by pointing out that agriculture has contributed significantly to deficit reduction, and that should be accounted for during work on the new Farm Bill. New York is the fourth largest milk-producing state in the nation, and in some years has been the third. Upstate New York includes nearly 5,000 family-owned dairy farms totaling more than 600,000 cows that produce roughly seven percent of the U.S. milk supply on an annual basis. These family farmers are the lifeblood of many of the communities we represent and the fresh milk they produce supports many jobs in the agricultural and food manufacturing sectors of our economy. As you know, the dairy industry in New York and nationwide has faced significant struggles in recent years. Our current trade challenges with Canada are particularly acute in Upstate New York, a major manufacturer of ultrafiltered milk, and our producers continue to struggle with labor costs and challenges. Moreover, milk prices deteriorated significantly last year, causing dairy farmers added pain during an already challenging climate. Against this backdrop, a top priority for all of us in the Farm Bill will be reforming the Margin Protection Program for Dairy (MPP-Dairy). While this program is fairly new, it has not performed to the expectations of our dairy farmers. In 2015 and 2016, the first two years of the program, dairy producers paid millions of dollars in premium payments but received very little return on this investment, even though last year was a very difficult year for our dairy farmers by all accounts. Therefore, we are eager to work with you to improve MPP-Dairy to make it more effective and affordable for dairy farmers. We understand that the program's current formula does not fully reflect producer costs, so we are interested in improving the program to better reflect the margins and challenges producers face to provide them a viable safety net for the coming years. We are also interested in looking carefully at the premium rates in MPP-Dairy, especially given the disparity between what producers have paid in and what they have received even during difficult years. Reducing some of the premium rates, especially those targeted to small and medium-sized farmers, could be an important step in helping farmers to better afford more meaningful coverage. We recognize that there will be budgetary limitations in the Farm Bill process, as there always are, and we stand ready to work with you to craft a Farm Bill that supports all of rural America. For us in rural Upstate New York, dairy farming is one of the most dominant sectors of our region, so a healthier dairy industry means a stronger economy. Thank you for your consideration. We are eager to work with you. Sincerely, Rep. Claudia Tenney Rep. Elise Stefanik Rep. John Faso Rep. John Katko Rep. Chris Collins Rep. Tom Reed ###
07.14.2017	Washington, DC—Today, Representatives Claudia Tenney (NY-22), Chris Collins (NY-27), Elise Stefanik (NY-21), Louise Slaughter (NY-25) and John Katko (NY-24) are urging President Trump to issue a disaster declaration in response to flooding along Lake Ontario. In order for President Trump to issue a disaster declaration, federal law requires that the initial request come from the governor. On July 6, 2017, Governor Cuomo officially requested that a major disaster declaration be issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Due to the severity of this flooding and persistently high water levels, Governor Cuomo determined that the scope of the relief and response efforts are beyond the capability of the state. In a bipartisan letter, the Representatives cited record high water levels in Lake Ontario and the unprecedented flooding that has had a severe and damaging impact across the eight-county region. Municipalities have struggled to keep up with the costs of repairs for critical infrastructure and without federal support, they will continue to struggle to safeguard and repair existing infrastructure and mitigate against future flooding. “Recent flooding has destroyed homes and businesses along the Lake Ontario shoreline. During a recent tour of the area, I had the chance to see the severity of the damage first hand. Our constituents and communities have suffered for long enough. It is imperative that they are compensated for the severe and irreparable damage to their properties. That’s why we are urging President Trump to issue this declaration to provide families and business owners in the region the relief that they desperately need,” said Congresswoman Tenney (NY-22). “Our constituents deserve to be compensated for the irreplaceable damage that has resulted from Barrack Obama’s support for the IJC’s disastrous Plan 2014. I’ve seen firsthand the devastation that this flooding has brought to shoreline property owners, businesses and municipalities. Now that the declaration has been requested, it is time that the federal government take this first step towards righting this terrible wrong by providing disaster relief,” said Congressman Collins (NY-27). “Heavy rainfall earlier this year has caused historic levels of flooding along the St. Lawrence River," said Congresswoman Stefanik (NY-21). “Damage to homes, businesses, and infrastructure has been severe. My office has been working closely with officials at the state level and have had continued conversations with FEMA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Through these conversations it is clear we must act quickly to help impacted New Yorkers. I urge President Trump to approve the request for federal relief.” “Shoreline communities across New York state have been hit hard by the unprecedented flooding along Lake Ontario this year. Homeowners, farmers, businesses and municipalities face grave repair costs,” said Congressman John Katko (NY-24). “I’m grateful for Governor Cuomo’s recent action requesting FEMA assistance for these communities, and today joined my colleagues to reiterate the need for the Administration to act swiftly in approving this aid." The full text of the letter can be found below. July 13, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump, On July 6, 2017, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo officially requested that a major disaster declaration be issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency for the State of New York in response to flooding along Lake Ontario. As members of Congress who represent areas negatively impacted by this flooding, we urge you to issue this declaration as soon as possible. In over a century of record keeping, Lake Ontario’s water levels are at their highest point ever, which has led to unprecedented flooding that has impacted an eight-county region. It has caused irreparable damage to shoreline properties and placed a significant burden on local municipalities. Damage to homes and small business has been extensive and in many cases irreversible. Unfortunately, water levels are not expected to recede anytime soon, meaning that coastal communities that depend on seasonal tourism are being dealt a tremendously hard economic blow. In addition, municipalities are struggling to keep up with the costs of repairing and protecting critical infrastructure. The water levels have destroyed breakwaters and bulkheads, overwhelmed wastewater treatment facilities, and damaged roads, bridges, and other public facilities. As communities are working to repair damage, they are also investing heavily in measures to protect existing infrastructure and mitigate against future flooding. In all, the costs of such efforts are extensive and without federal support, communities will struggle to meet their objectives. Due to the severity of the flooding and the persistently high water levels, Governor Cuomo has determined that the scope of the relief and response efforts are simply beyond that of the state. As a result, he has requested supplementary federal assistance through an expedited major disaster declaration. Having seen the extent of the damage firsthand, we agree and respectfully urge you to grant New York’s request for a major disaster declaration as expeditiously as possible. Sincerely, Rep. Claudia Tenney Rep. Chris Collins Rep. Elise M. Stefanik Rep. Louise M. Slaughter Rep. John Katko ###
07.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – The House Judiciary Committee today passed by voice vote bipartisan, bicameral legislation introduced by Rep. Katko combat the synthetic drug epidemic, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act of 2017 (H.R. 2851). House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Congressman John Katko (R-N.Y.), chief sponsor of the bill, issued the statements below on today’s Committee approval of the bill. Chairman Goodlatte: “The drug epidemic currently plaguing the United States is destroying lives, families, and communities across the United States. It affects rural and urban areas and grandparents, parents, and kids alike. While Congress has taken action to combat the opioid epidemic through the historic Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, it’s clear that we need more tools to combat the ever-growing problem of synthetic drug abuse. “Today, the House Judiciary Committee has taken action to address this national crisis by passing the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act. Criminals can figure out a way to change one molecule in a drug, but the resulting drug is just as dangerous, and often even more so. This bill closes this dangerous loophole by ensuring our laws keep pace with the creation of new, chemically-altered drugs and by providing law enforcement with the tools needed to keep these drugs off of our streets. I applaud Congressman Katko for introducing this bill and urge the House to take it up soon.” Congressman Katko: “In Central New York and communities nationwide, synthetic opioid use is on the rise and continues to take innocent lives. The Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetics Analogues Act will help stop the unlawful importation and distribution of these dangerous substances and give law enforcement the effective tools they need to keep our communities safe. I’m grateful for the swift attention of Chairman Goodlatte and the House Judiciary Committee to this critical issue.” In 2015, over 52,000 Americans died from drug overdoses. Nearly 20 percent of these deaths resulted from an overdose of synthetic opioids like fentanyl, which can be as much as 100 times more powerful than painkillers such as morphine. Additionally, synthetic analogues with street names like K2, Spice, Bath Salts, or Molly are designed to mimic other street drugs like marijuana, LSD, and Ecstasy and can be more potent than the real thing and just as deadly. Criminal drug manufacturers, largely from China, work continuously to stay ahead of U.S. drug laws by altering the molecular structure of their drugs as soon as the government bans them. The Controlled Substances Act (CSA), which was signed into law over 40 years ago, was designed to protect the public from the dangers associated with drugs and drug use. However, the CSA was not designed to handle the magnitude and speed in which these new psychoactive substances have emerged in our communities. The Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act updates the CSA to provide swifter action to stop the unlawful importation and distribution of synthetic drugs, and gives law enforcement effective tools to help keep our communities safe. The House Judiciary Committee held a legislative hearing on this bill in June, in which Rep. Katko urged passage of the bipartisan measure. Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.05.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S Rep. John Katko (NY-24) penned the following op-ed highlighting the need to pass bipartisan, bicameral legislation he introduced in the House to combat the synthetic drug epidemic plaguing Central New York. Rep. Katko: Synthetic opioid bill would speed process to ‘ban these poisons’ Syracuse.com/Syracuse Post Standard Rep. John Katko July 5, 2017 Just over three years ago, before I was elected to serve in Congress, I met a grieving mother from Oswego County. Teresa Woolson had recently lost her son, Victor, to synthetic drugs. Despite this unimaginable loss, Teresa channeled her heartbreak into advocacy. In her son Victor’s name, she formed the VOW Foundation and began her tireless work to help others who were struggling. As part of this effort, Teresa pledged to get the synthetic drug that killed her son, XLR-11, off the streets. Toxic, synthetic substances, like XLR-11, mimic hard street drugs like marijuana, LSD, cocaine, and ecstasy. They can be more potent and even more deadly. Usually located overseas, manufacturers of these substances slightly alter the chemical structure of the drug to avoid law enforcement scrutiny and prosecution – and current law has not kept up. As a former narcotics prosecutor, I saw the infiltration of these synthetic substances, including fentanyl-laced heroin, into our community. I saw drug manufacturers keeping one-step ahead of local law enforcement and skirting prosecution. As a former U.S. attorney, but more importantly, as a father, ridding our community of these poisons is among my top priorities. Last year, through legislation that I introduced, the drug that killed Victor was finally added to the Controlled Substances list. While we’ve made great strides, it should not be the case that it takes nearly five years to ban a known, deadly drug. We need a more streamlined process to permanently ban these poisons. Recently, I stood at Crouse Health together with local advocates – including Teresa, law enforcement, not-for-profit organizations, and healthcare and treatment providers to propose a bipartisan, commonsense solution. As these folks who work on the front lines know all too well, the influx of synthetic drugs and opioids has continued to hit our community hard. Just a few weeks back, we saw a record surge in overdoses in Syracuse, with the most vulnerable in our community targeted in the Mission District. Local law enforcement and first responders were dispatched to over 15 overdoses in less than 24 hours, as local emergency rooms were inundated with patients. Our community has even been dubbed “Spike Nation,” by The New York Times. The measure I’ve introduced, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues (SITSA) Act, is an incredible step forward to more swiftly stop the unlawful importation and distribution of synthetic drugs. This measure gives law enforcement the necessary tools to target synthetics and the criminals who traffic them. First, it modernizes the Controlled Substances Act, establishing a mechanism by which synthetic analogues can be temporarily or permanently added to a new schedule in as little as 30 days after the chemical composition is determined. This simplified method will go a long way in speeding up the process for outlawing synthetic poisons. Next, it outlaws 13 synthetic fentanyls which have been identified by the Drug Enforcement Administration as an immediate threat to public health and safety. These substances have caused at least 162 confirmed deaths in the U.S., with thousands more suspected. Finally, the bill maintains firm penalties for foreign manufacturing and importation, adding to current law an offense for false labeling of controlled substance analogues. While most agree we need action to address this public health crisis, some have criticized the approach of this bill. I would like to address these criticisms. Some argue this measure gives sweeping authority to the Attorney General to immediately ban substances and would, as a result, hinder research. On the contrary, the goal of this bipartisan legislation is to not only prevent drug abuse, but to facilitate proper research by our scientific communities so we may keep up to date on these chemical compounds and fully understand newly invented substances. Others claim this measure only proliferates the failing war on drugs. I spent the better part of my career as a prosecutor and strongly believe safety valves should be in place to ensure lower level, nonviolent criminals are not over-penalized. This bill simply operates within the parameters already set by current law. It expedites the process to get these poisons off the streets, and specifically omits federal simple possession of a synthetic drug from its reach. It creates a mandatory minimum only if distribution of the drug ultimately results in death. The synthetic drug and heroin epidemic is a public health crisis that has severely impacted our community. In Congress, I have fought for a comprehensive approach to combat this scourge. In addition to this measure, I will continue to fight to enhance treatment efforts, develop prevention education, and bolster support for our law enforcement. Alongside champions like Teresa, Central New York’s strong network of behavioral health and treatment professionals, local law enforcement, and all of those working on the front lines, I am confident we can make a difference. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) delivered testimony before the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations, urging passage of bipartisan legislation he recently unveiled, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act (SITSA). Rep. Katko’s testimony, as prepared for delivery, can be found below. Video of his remarks is available here. Thank you Chairman Gohmert, Ranking Member Jackson-Lee, and members of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations for allowing me to speak today about H.R. 2851, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues (SITSA) Act of 2017, a bill I recently introduced with Congresswoman Kathleen Rice from New York. The synthetic drug epidemic has swept our nation and crippled communities in Central New York. Just a few weeks ago, Syracuse area hospitals saw a record number of overdoses due to synthetics abuse. First responders across the nation have seen incredible increases in calls due to synthetic overdoses. For example, in June of 2015, Washington, D.C. recorded 439 ambulance trips – resulting in 15 per day - related to synthetic drug abuse. Toxic, synthetic drugs are designed to mimic street drugs like marijuana, LSD, cocaine, Ecstasy and other hard drugs. They can be more potent than the real thing and often times are more deadly. Unfortunately, when law enforcement encounters a specific synthetic drug compound, manufacturers of these substances are able to slightly alter the chemical structure of the drug. This puts law enforcement at a serious disadvantage and are constantly one step behind them. As a former U.S. attorney, but more importantly, as a father, getting these drugs off the streets and out of the hands of our loved ones remains a top priority for me. Two weeks ago I met with a constituent in my district, Teresa Woolson, whose son was tragically killed by a synthetic drug identified as XLR-11. Unfortunately for Teresa, the drug that killed her son managed to remain legal and on the streets for 4 years after his death, until it was finally added to the Controlled Substances list. While users of synthetics are certainly at risk for overdosing, we are now seeing local law enforcement and first responders put in harm’s way simply by coming in contact with these dangerous substances. Numerous cases across the country have seen emergency personnel die responding overdoses. This is both tragic and unacceptable, and H.R. 2851 is a positive step in eradicating these harmful substances from our communities. The SITSA Act will give local law enforcement the necessary tools to target synthetic substances and the criminals who traffic them. Specifically, this legislation will create a new schedule to the Controlled Substances Act and establish a mechanism by which synthetic analogues can be temporarily or permanently added to that schedule in as little as 30 days after the chemical composition is determined by the Attorney General. The new schedule, Schedule A, will add 13 synthetic fentanyls that have been identified by the DEA as an immediate threat to public health and safety. These synthetics have been confirmed as the cause of death in at least 162 cases in the United States. Finally, the bill maintains firm penalties for foreign manufacturing and importation and provides a multi-step sentencing process which includes application of existing federal guidelines. The goal of this legislation is to not only prevent drug abuse, but to facilitate proper research so that we may better understand these chemical compounds. The stories of synthetic drug abuse are in no way limited to my area of the country; this is a nationwide epidemic. I respectfully ask this Subcommittee to consider the SITSA Act because every moment we fail to act; another person is effected by synthetic drugs. Again, I thank you for allowing me to testify this morning and urge this Subcommittee to take action on H.R. 2851. Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen John Katko (NY-24)and Chris Collins (NY-27) yesterday hosted a meeting with stakeholders impacted by the Lake Ontario flooding to discuss the devastation directly related to the International Joint Commission (IJC) Plan 2014. Staff members from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers answered questions from Central and Western New York county leaders and explained how government agencies can provide assistance and help prevent further damage. “There is no question that the implementation of Plan 2014 has wreaked havoc in our community,” said Katko. “I was pleased to welcome Wayne County Board of Supervisors Chairman LeRoy and Sodus Point Mayor Tertinek to Washington to participate in this discussion and will continue to fight to ensure shoreline residents, property owners, businesses, and farmers are able to receive the relief they desperately need.” “Today we had a room full of local leaders and we can all agree that Plan 2014 is a disaster,” said Collins. “Residents, businesses and municipalities along the Lake Ontario shore deserve better than this bureaucratic mess, and the team that was in the meeting today is fighting for any relief that can be provided.” Collins and Katko are vocal opponents to Plan 2014, and have proposed an amendment to the FY18 State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs appropriations bill that would direct the IJC to compensate shoreline property owners for damages caused by Plan 2014 using the panel’s existing funding. Increased water levels have caused millions of dollars in damage and residents have yet to receive any relief. "I would like to thank Congressman Collins and Congressman Katko for organizing this vitally important forum. Listening to real stories from local leaders across the state will help us learn more about the real impacts of Plan 2014 throughout our coastal communities along Lake Ontario. I look forward to continuing to work alongside my colleagues in the House and our local leaders to find a solution to the issues facing our property owners in the region," said Congresswoman Claudia Tenney. Wayne County Board of Supervisors Chairman Steve Le Roy said, “We’ve seen record devastation of Wayne County’s shoreline and unprecedented flooding this year alone because of the failed implementation of Plan 2014. We will only see real relief with a full repeal of Plan 2014. This meeting was an opportunity to raise Wayne County’s concerns at a federal level and we’re grateful to Congressmen Katko and Collins for continuing to advocate for our community in Washington.” "I made a pledge to the residents of the Town of Greece that I would explore every option available to help alleviate the ill effects of the rising waters and shoreline erosion,” said Bill Reilich, Supervisor, Town of Greece. “I appreciate the work of Congressman Collins and Congressman Katko for making this trip to Washington, D.C. possible. I intend to gather as much information as possible and hope that we are able to urge the decision makers in DC that changes must be made to the existing plan. The devastating conditions that we are experiencing in the Town of Greece and the entire shoreline are not acceptable and relief must be provided." “Orleans County tax payers have suffered nearly an $11 million dollar loss along the Lake Ontario shoreline, and this number is still growing,” said Legislator Lynne Johnson, District 2 Orleans County. “It is my honor to represent them in Washington, D.C. and plead for this much needed funding on their behalf. It should not come from the backs of the rest of our Orleans County tax payers that do not live along the lake and did not suffer these losses.” “After nearly four years fighting to stop Plan 2014, the inevitable has devastated our lakeshore and harbors, forcing people out of their homes and causing businesses to close,” said Legislator David Godfrey, District 10 Niagara County. “The immediate financial impact on Niagara County alone has surpassed $21.7 million dollars, and the loss of sales tax revenues will be felt for months to come. Our meetings in Washington, thanks to Congressman Collins, will hopefully free the resources and moneys needed not only to repair our damages, but also protect what is left from further damage and loss.” The leaders in attendance are committed to delivering relief to those impacted by the flooding and will remain devoted to working cooperatively to get the people of Central and Western New York the compensation they deserve. ###
06.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today introduced a bipartisan measure to expand access to mental health services. The Mental Health Improvement Act would add licensed mental health counselors and marriage and family therapists to Medicare’s network of eligible service providers. Currently, these highly qualified providers are not able to bill Medicare for their services, despite providing care to seniors and individuals with disabilities. By making this simple change, patients nationwide – especially in rural, underserved communities – will have better access to care. Katko introduced the measure with Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-05). Katko, who has long championed improving mental health care services in Central New York through his Mental Health Task Force with Assemblyman Bill Magnarelli, said, “This measure will not only increase access to care for older Americans in communities nationwide, but it will help alleviate the strain on our nation’s mental health and addiction workforce. I’ll continue to fight at home in Central New York and in Washington to ensure individuals and families receive the care they need.” Medicare currently covers mental health services provided by psychiatrists, psychologists, clinical social workers, and psychiatric nurses. However, mental health counselors and marriage and family therapists—who have equivalent education and training to clinical social workers—are not eligible to be reimbursed by Medicare. These professionals already provide approximately 40 percent of mental health services. Including them in Medicare’s network of eligible service providers would make over 165,000 more licensed practitioners available to help beneficiaries. Local and national mental healthcare service providers and advocates applauded the introduction of this legislation: Karen Winters Schwartz, President of the National Alliance on Mental Illness of Syracuse said, "There are many social injustices that those dealing with serious mental illness face. Poor access to good medical care is a grave injustice, leading to increased hospitalization, loss of productivity, loss of relationships, homelessness, suicide, etc. In the end, the cost to society is morally and fiscally catastrophic. Congressman Katko understands this and I commend him for his efforts. The Mental Health Access Improvement Act will be a positive step in providing justice to those of our population who suffer daily with these neurological, brain-based illnesses." Dr. Thomas Schwartz, M.D., Professor and Interim Chair of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at SUNY Upstate Medical University stated, “Regarding the Mental Health Access Improvement Act, I think this is an important step which should ideally help us to begin delivering a greater amount of psychological care to those who are elderly and receive Medicare benefits. The professionals covered under this legislation have trained hard at accredited institutions and have developed skill sets that will help those who are older in regard to depression, anxiety and to manage the stress associated with aging. This is a good deal for mental health agencies across the U.S. and should allow us to provide greater access and mental health care to those of geriatric age who are in need of psychological health." “We at ARISE are dedicated to increasing access to mental health supports in the community and are committed to literally ‘meeting people where they are’ by offering services in a variety of community settings and even in people's homes. This legislation clearly aligns with the ARISE mission because it expands the available supports for seniors and families,” said Tania Anderson, CEO of ARISE. “The American Counseling Association is extremely grateful to Congressmen John Katko and Mike Thompson for taking leadership on a critical issue facing Medicare beneficiaries; lack of access to mental health care across the country,” said Art Terrazas, Director of Government Affairs at the American Counseling Association. “Licensed mental health counselors provide vital services to patients from all walks of life and this long overdue legislation would bridge the coverage gap once someone turns 65.” Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday evening, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed the bipartisan Traveler Redress Improvement Act, legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee, to ensure that travelers have the appropriate redress when experiencing difficulties at transportation hubs or crossing U.S. borders. The measure expands the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Redress Inquiry Program, or DHS TRIP, which functions to assist travelers who feel they have been repeatedly selected for enhanced screening. Currently, the DHS TRIP process provides redress to individuals who have been placed on the ‘No Fly List,’ but has no other mechanism for handling cases where travelers feel they have been unfairly subject to enhanced screening or vetting. For this reason, a traveler may be perpetually selected for enhanced screening without any opportunity to correct the record if he or she feels this has occurred in error. “Currently, if a traveler is subject to an enhanced pat down by TSA or suspects that he or she has been flagged as a potential security threat to an airport, that individual has little redress within the Department of Homeland Security,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Unfortunately, erroneous information in the Terrorist Screening Data Base can sometimes lead to mistakenly identifying individuals as threats. This means innocent travelers may be targeted by the U.S. government – without being provided an explanation or opportunity to make amends. This measure establishes a formal mechanism to handle these cases within the Department of Homeland Security to ensure that individuals can travel safely and hassle-free.” Congressman John Katko serves on the House Homeland Security Committee where he chairs the Transportation & Protective Security Subcommittee. He represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.19.2017	SYRACUSE, N.Y. – This morning, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) stood at Crouse Hospital in Syracuse to announce bipartisan, bicameral legislation he has introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives to combat the synthetic drug epidemic that has swept Central New York. Toxic, synthetic drugs are designed to mimic street drugs like marijuana, LSD, cocaine, Ecstasy and other hard drugs. They can be more potent than the real thing and just as deadly. Currently, manufacturers and distributors of these substances are able to slightly alter the chemical structure of drugs to avoid law enforcement scrutiny and prosecution. Since being elected to represent Central New York in Congress, Rep. Katko has prioritized addressing this crisis. “Just a few weeks back, we saw a record surge in synthetic drug overdoses in Syracuse. Sadly, this has become all too commonplace in our community,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Today, I’m proud to stand here with some of the individuals from across Central New York who work on the front lines each and every day to combat this epidemic. The legislation I’ve introduced will help stop the unlawful importation and distribution of synthetic drugs and give our law enforcement the effective tools they need to keep our community safe.” The bipartisan, bicameral measure introduced by Rep. Katko, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues (SITSA) Act, modernizes the Controlled Substances Act and outlaws 13 synthetic fentanyls that have been identified by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) as an immediate threat to public health. Local advocates, healthcare and treatment professionals, not-for-profit organizations, and law enforcement joined Rep. Katko for this morning’s announcement and applauded the introduction of this legislation: Teresa Woolson, President of the VOW Foundation, said, “The synthetic drug that killed my son was identified as XLR-11 and this chemical compound continued to cause harm for another 4 years before it was added to the Controlled Substance List. This bill would create a much-needed tool to help law enforcement stop the spread of these deadly drugs in our Country. I applaud Congressman Katko for his continued efforts to combat this drug crisis.” “The City of Syracuse has been plagued by influx of synthetic opioids and other synthetic drugs. The Syracuse Police Department strongly supports legislation of this type, which will provide tougher penalties to the people responsible for bringing these dangerous substances into our community. We will continue to work with our law enforcement partners to target the criminals responsible for trafficking these substances,” stated Syracuse Police Chief Frank Fowler. “On behalf of Crouse Health and everyone who is impacted by the prescription drug and heroin epidemic I applaud Congressman Katko’s ongoing efforts to bring solutions to this public health crisis that has taken many lives in our community,” said Monika Taylor, Director of Behavioral Health for Crouse Hospital. “This legislation supports the multi-pronged approach needed to successfully address this current epidemic by reducing the supply of lethal substances in our communities, thus reducing the number of new cases of opioid addiction and preventing overdose deaths attributed to synthetic drugs that are as much as 100 times more potent than morphine. Crouse has been providing comprehensive treatment in our community since 1962 and we have responded to the increased demand for treatment by steadily expanding services to meet the growing need.” Alan Thornton, CEO, Rescue Mission Alliance said, “Unfortunately, over the past few years, we have witnessed scores of individuals fall prey to synthetic drugs. From Central New York’s suburbs to its city neighborhoods, no place is immune. Each and every overdose is heartbreaking.” Dr. Indu Gupta, Onondaga County Commissioner of Health explained, “We continue to see increasing numbers of drug overdoses from opioids – both prescription painkillers and heroin or fentanyl. We have also seen surges in overdoses due to synthetic cannabinoids. This drug epidemic has affected every sector of society, highlighting the importance of a collaborative approach at the local, state, and federal level to address this crisis.” Specifically the SITSA Act: Modernizes the Controlled Substances Act by adding Schedule A to the existing 5 schedules. It provides a mechanism by which synthetic analogues can be temporarily or permanently added to the Schedule A by the Attorney General. This will allow scientific and research communities to develop information on these newly-invented substances. Adds 13 synthetic fentanyls, which have been identified by the Drug Enforcement Administration as an immediate threat to public health, to Schedule A. These substances have been confirmed as the cause of death in at least 162 cases in the U.S., with several more suspected. Specifically omits federal simple possession of a synthetic drug from the reach of the bill. Provides a streamlined approach for sentencing synthetic drug trafficking in federal courts. Adds to current law an offense for false labeling of controlled substance analogues. Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.30.2017	SOLVAY, NEW YORK – In a ceremony this afternoon at Solvay Public Library, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) presented medals long overdue to four Central New York veterans. “It was my distinct honor to assist these veterans and their families in acquiring the medals they are rightfully due, and to present them today,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Yesterday, our country honored the brave sacrifices of the many men and women who have given their lives for our freedom and our democracy. I’m honored today to pay tribute to these four American heroes, and will continue to fight for our veterans in Congress.” Rep. Katko presented awards to the following veterans today: Mr. David Tatich, a Savannah, NY resident, who served in the U.S. Navy in Vietnam. Mr. Tatich was deployed to Mine Squadrone Eleven Detatchment Alpha Reublic of Vietnam and endured two Tet offensives, plus daily hazards under fire and ambushes by Viet Cong insurgents while patrolling Long Tau and keeping the river open for vital supplies to reach Saigon, Bien Hoa and all airfields in and around Saigon. Upon his return from Vietnam, he was married and had two children, and received his B.A. in Economics at SUNY Binghamton. Today, Rep. Katko awarded Mr. Tatich the Vietnam Service Medal, which he had not received following his service, as well as the Combat Action Ribbon, Presidential Unit Citation, Meritous Unit Commendation, Navy Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, and the Honorable Discharge Button. Mr. John Greeley, a lifelong LaFayette resident and graduate of LaFayette High School, Cazenovia College and the University of California at Berkeley, who served in the U.S. Navy from 1978 until he was honorably discharged in 1983. Mr. Greeley has been married to his wife, Kathleen, for ten years and has one son, John. Rep. Katko presented Mr. Greeley the Navy Expeditionary Medal he was owed for his service. Mr. Louis John Donahue, of Baldwinsville, who served in the U.S. Army during World War II. A graduate of Most Holy Rosary High School, Mr. Donahue joined the Army, and served in Germany as a private in Company E in the 2nd Battalion 253rd Infantry Regiment in the 63rdInfantry Division, also known as the “Blood & Fire Division.” Mr. Donahue was injured in The Battle of Buchhof and Stein am Kocher, and awarded a Bronze Star and Purple Heart Medal. Following his service, Mr. Donahue married his high school sweetheart, Dody Condon. He went on to graduate from Le Moyne College and taught math in the Solvay School District. He and his wife raised six children. Mr. Donahue passed away in early 2017 and is buried at the Onondaga Veteran’s Cemetery. His son, L. Michael Donahue, accepted on his father’s behalf today the Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Good Conduct Medal, European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with Bronze Star Attachment, World War II Victory Medal, and Combat Infantryman Badge. Rep. Katko was able to assist Mr. Donahue’s family in obtaining these medals following his death. Mr. Gordon Foster, of Camillus, who joined the U.S. Army following his graduation from Lansing High School in 1948. Mr. Foster was injured during his service in Korea, when he was struck by a piece of shrapnel during combat. He was honorably discharged after serving three years in the Army. He has previously been awarded the Korean Service Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, and the NYS Conspicuous Service Cross by former Governor George Pataki. Not long after his honorable discharge, Mr. Foster was introduced on a blind date to his wife, Corinne. Just three months later they were married, beginning a partnership that would last nearly sixty-four years. Mr. Foster passed away earlier this year in February. His wife, Corinne, son, James, and daughter, Barb, accepted the Purple Heart Medal on his behalf today. Rep. Katko’s office was able to assist Mr. Foster’s family in obtaining a replacement Purple Heart Medal after discovering that his name had previously been printed inaccurately on his medal. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) this morning delivered remarks of the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives honoring the life of beloved Syracuse Police Captain Richard Walsh, who passed away last week. Video of Rep. Katko’s floor speech can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of a dear friend and former colleague, longtime Syracuse Police Captain Richard Walsh. For nearly twenty years, I served as a federal prosecutor in Central New York. During much of this time, I had the distinct privilege of working alongside Captain Walsh and witnessed firsthand his commitment to serving the City of Syracuse. Captain Walsh joined the Syracuse Police Department in 1970, rising to the rank of Captain of Detectives. He led a very successful and distinguished career, retiring in 2011 after 41 years of dedicated service. On the day of his retirement, Captain Walsh was named the Grand Marshal of the Syracuse St. Patrick’s Day Parade – a mark of distinction for any Central New Yorker. In addition to his diligent efforts to keep our community safe, Captain Walsh volunteered countless hours to many community organizations including Project Hunger, Huntington Family Center, and the Rape Crisis Center. Eternally proud of his Irish heritage and roots in Tipperary Hill, he devoted many hours to the Syracuse Irish Festival, was a founding member of the St. Patrick’s Day Parade Committee, and served as President of the Onondaga County Ancient Order of Hibernians. Captain Richard Walsh was the true definition of a public servant. He loved his work, he had the utmost respect of his colleagues and his community, and he was relentless in his efforts to make Central New York a safer, better place. His kindness and generosity will forever be remembered. May Captain Richard Walsh’s name and legacy forever be remembered in the Congressional Record. Rest Peacefully. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that Le Moyne College in Syracuse has been awarded $388,193 in federal funding through the Upward Bound Program. This is the first installment of funding for a program that is intended to last five years, and will total just under 2 million dollars. The Department of Education funding has been allocated so that Le Moyne College may continue providing Upward Bound services to 84 low-income, first-generation students enrolled in the Syracuse City School District at Corcoran, Henninger, and Nottingham High Schools. The Upward Bound program provides enrolled students with academic advisement, tutorial services, mentoring support, counseling services, leadership development, parental and guardian support and engagement, exposure to cultural events and academic programs, college visits, and assistance with college admission and application procedures. The Syracuse City School District is the fifth largest school district in New York State, serving an economically depressed city that experiences a high level of poverty. “We need to create strong educational and job opportunities so that individuals living in poverty can take steps into personal achievement and economic stability. The Upward Bound program is critical to providing these opportunities for students in the City of Syracuse,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “I’m proud to have worked with Le Moyne College in support of this funding, and will continue to fight alongside our community partners to break the vicious cycle of poverty that afflicts our City.” As Central New York’s Representative in Congress, Rep. Katko has focused intensively on the devastating rate of local poverty and the need for strengthening education through public private partnerships. Through the appropriations process, he has supported funding for higher education programming. The Upward Bound Program is one of eight U.S. Department of Education TRIO programs, federal outreach and student services programs designed to identify and provide services for individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds. These programs are targeted to serve and assist low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities to progress through the academic pipeline from middle school to post baccalaureate programs. It also includes a training program for directors and staff of TRIO projects. Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced Emily Irving, a senior at Union Springs High School in Cayuga County, as the winner of the Congressional Art Competition for the 24th Congressional District. Her oil on wood piece, titled, “Kelly,” will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one full year. “Central New York is home to many young, talented artists. Each year, my office receives a number of remarkable pieces of artwork, and this year was no exception,” said Rep. John Katko. “I am pleased to announce Emily Irving from Union Springs has been named this year’s winner. I look forward to seeing Emily’s piece in Washington, where it will be on display in the U.S. Capitol for visitors to view.” Congressman Katko’s Syracuse, Auburn, Oswego, and Lyons offices received many unique and creative entries from students in the 24th District. The winning piece of artwork was selected by a panel of esteemed judges from across NY-24. Winners of the Congressional Art Competition are invited to travel to Washington for a reception in June. A photo of Emily’s artwork can be found below. Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.19.2017	Syracuse, New York – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that eleven young men and women from across the 24th Congressional District have received offers of appointment to the United States Service Academies. “I’m pleased to announce the appointment of eleven bright young men and women from across all four counties of the 24th Congressional District to our nation’s esteemed military academies,” said Congressman Katko. “These dedicated young students have demonstrated their scholarship, service, leadership abilities, and determination to serve our great nation. I was honored to nominate these students and wish them the very best as they begin their studies and service to our country.” The following students received offers of appointment: United States Military Academy – West Point, NY James Hunter of Liverpool High School Andrew Marsh of Marcellus High School Kiernan Reagan of Marcellus High School Adrian Vilardi of Fabius-Pompey High School Anthony Alberici of the United States Military Academy Prep School Matthew Blejwas of McQuaid Jesuit High School United States Naval Academy – Annapolis, MD Abigail McGinn of Bishop Ludden High School Lisa Morocco of Manlius Pebble High School United States Air Force Academy – Colorado Springs, CO Trey LaRock of G. Ray Bodley High School Christopher Stowell of Cicero-North Syracuse High School United States Merchant Marine Academy – Kings Point, NY Nicholas Alberici of Auburn High School Each year, Rep. Katko may nominate a limited number of students to each U.S. Service Academy. Representative Katko’s Academy Nomination Board conducted interviews with applicants following review of their applications. After receiving a nomination, each student must still earn admission into the service academy for which he or she was nominated to be considered for an appointment. The honor of attending a service academy comes with the obligation and commitment to serve in the military for at least five years upon graduation. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – One week after visiting Nucor Steel in Auburn and highlighting the need to protect Central New York industry from unfair trade practices, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today testified before the International Trade Commission (ITC) on behalf of U.S. rebar producers, including Nucor Steel’s rebar plant in Auburn. The ITC is currently nearing a final determination as to whether unfairly traded rebar imports from Japan, Taiwan, and Turkey – which have surged into U.S. markets – are causing harm to the domestic steel industry. Speaking at today’s hearing, U.S. Rep. John Katko stated, “I think it is abundantly clear that these unfairly traded imports have had a devastating impact on our country’s rebar producers and their hardworking employees.” Rep. Katko discussed the vital role of Nucor Steel’s rebar plant to the Central New York economy and noted the plant’s use of environmentally-friendly production methods and use of 99.8% recycled content. “I can confidently say that U.S. steel manufacturers, such as Nucor, produce some of the best rebar on the market and, given a fair opportunity, our producers can compete with any steel producers in the world,” continued Rep. Katko. “However, when foreign competitors receive government subsidies and dump their products into U.S. markets, American producers suffer.” Representative Katko noted the impact of unfairly traded rebar from Japan, Taiwan, and Turkey on U.S. markets. As a result, domestic producers like Nucor have been forced to scale back investment, slash production, cut pay and lay off workers. Rep. Katko urged the ITC to recognize the importance of the domestic rebar industry. “We appreciate Representative Katko’s work to address the damage that unfairly-traded imported rebar has on our American steel industry and its workers,” said Drew Wilcox, Vice President and General Manager of Nucor Steel Auburn, Inc. “In order to achieve a freer, fairer system of global trade, we must prevent foreign countries from gaming the system to give its producers an unfair advantage.” Representative Katko’s testimony can be found here. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that, with his support, Locke Fire District 1 in Cayuga County has received $120,000 in federal funding to replace outdated self-contained breathing apparatuses (SCBA). The funding was provided through the Assistance to Firefighters (AFG) program, which is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “Our first responders must be well equipped to keep themselves and our community safe,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “I was pleased to support the Locke Fire District’s application for funding to ensure that our local firefighters have the most up to date equipment to respond efficiently and effectively.” The Department of Homeland Security’s AFG program was founded in 2001. It awards funding for local fire departments to obtain critically needed resources and equipment. The Locke Fire District will use the funding to replace outdated self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives John Katko (NY-24), Chris Collins (NY-27), Claudia Tenney (NY-22) and Elise Stefanik (NY-21) are urging Governor Cuomo to take swift action in requesting the assistance of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to deliver relief to Lake Ontario shoreline and St. Lawrence River property owners. In a letter to the Governor released today, the Representatives, who all represent shore areas, called on Cuomo to comply with the federal Stafford Act and make the initial request for federal assistance. Federal law requires the initial request to come from the governor in order for President Trump to declare a federal state of emergency for the Ontario lakeshore areas. “With rising lake levels gravely impacting communities along the southern shore of Lake Ontario, I’ve spent time visiting with property owners and local officials in Fair Haven, Sodus, and Oswego. Homeowners, businesses, and farmers are suffering substantial and costly damage,” said Congressman Katko (NY-24). “I applaud Governor Cuomo for his attention to this critical and unprecedented situation. Still, current water levels pose a significant burden and, left unaddressed, will continue to cause damage to shoreline communities across New York State. That’s why I’ve joined my colleagues to urge the Governor to elevate these concerns by requesting federal assistance from FEMA so that our communities may have access to the assistance they desperately need.” “While we commend Governor Cuomo’s efforts thus far to address the concerns of Lake Ontario homeowners, our letter respectfully urges him to request the assistance of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),” said Congressman Collins. “In making a formal request to President Trump to declare a federal state of emergency, impacted residents will be able to access the wide ranging disaster assistance that FEMA has to offer. Our Lake Ontario constituents have remained patient as water levels continue to rise each day, but it’s now time to act and provide them with the relief they deserve.” “Our constituents in the Lake Ontario region continue to see water levels rise, damaging their property, their homes and local businesses,” said Congresswoman Tenney (NY-22). “As our delegation and state officials work to provide relief to families devastated by the flooding, it is imperative that Governor Cuomo begin the process of requesting federal assistance to give our constituents the help they deserve and desperately need.” “Heavy rainfall in recent months has caused near historic levels of flooding along the St. Lawrence River,” said Congresswoman Stefanik (NY-21). “As water levels continue to rise, so do concerns about damage to homes, businesses, marinas and docks. My office has been working closely with officials at the state level to address this issue, and I have been in continued conversations with FEMA officials and regional representatives for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers who are monitoring the situation closely. We must act now to protect our shoreline property owners and I urge Governor Cuomo to expedite a request for federal relief.” According to the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), current water levels in Lake Ontario are measuring in 31 inches higher than average and are expected to rise another 5 inches over the next 30 days. Shoreline property owners continue to invest in break-walls and other erosion protection resources; however, a significant number of homes have been condemned and impacted property owners anticipate tens of thousands of dollars in damage. The letter details that while both the National Guard and USACE have helped provide counties along the shoreline with hundreds of thousands of sandbags, unfortunately “they are no match for waves measured between 5-7 feet tall that are crashing against private property, housing structures, and docks causing irreparable damage to the shoreline.” Full text of the letter along with signatories can be seen here and full text can be read below. May 18, 2017 The Honorable Andrew Cuomo Governor State of New York The Capitol Albany, New York 12224 Dear Governor Cuomo, We are writing you today regarding the recent flooding along the shoreline of Lake Ontario. Lake Ontario water levels have recently surpassed record high levels, currently sitting 31 inches higher than normal levels with an expected increase of 5 inches over the next 30 days. It has come to our attention that your office has not yet requested the assistance of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in getting damage assessments. This is a crucial first step in the process of declaring a federal state of emergency through the Stafford Act. As you know, a declaration by the president of a major disaster must originate from the Governor of the affected State. Erosion along the shoreline is a serious issue; nearly all of the shoreline in New York State erodes at a rate of one foot per year, some parts erode at a rate of more than two feet per year. This recent flooding has exacerbated erosion, some property owners who once had 80 feet of land standing between their home and the lake, are currently looking at 40 feet or less. Numerous shoreline property owners have invested in break-walls surrounding their property that are now sitting far into the lake. Homeowners and shoreline property owners are experiencing tens of thousands of dollars in damage, homes have been condemned, and there is no relief in sight. The National Guard and Army Corps of Engineers have helped counties along the shoreline to fill and place hundreds of thousands of sandbags. Unfortunately, they are no match for waves measured between 5-7 feet tall that are crashing against private property, housing structures, and docks causing irreparable damage to the shoreline. While we commend you for ordering the New York Department of Environmental Conservation to speed up permit processing for the construction of protective structures, we respectfully request that you swiftly begin the process for requesting federal assistance. We must act now to protect our shoreline property owners. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In recognition of Police Week, the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday evening unanimously passed bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko, H.R. 2169, the Improving Fusion Centers’ Access to Information Act. Fusion Centers are supported by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and function as intelligence and information sharing centers for federal, state, and local law enforcement. These centers have become a significant conduit for sharing terrorism, homeland security, and criminal information with Federal, State, local, tribal, and territorial partners. Yet, at a Transportation & Protective Security Subcommittee hearing chaired by Rep. Katko last fall, it was made clear that information-sharing practices remain a challenge. Rep. Katko’s legislation works to ensure that DHS continuously assess and reviews information-sharing efforts to close these gaps. “As a former federal prosecutor, I worked alongside members of our local, state, and federal law enforcement for nearly twenty years to improve the safety and stability of our community. I never wavered in my respect for the difficult jobs of Central New York’s law enforcement, and I recognize that the challenges they face are greater now than ever before,” said Rep. Katko. “In Congress, I remain committed to supporting policies that prioritize the safety and efficiency of our men and women in law enforcement. The measure that passed the House today will streamline information sharing and communication amongst law enforcement at all levels to ensure these brave men and women can continue their efforts to keep our communities safe.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.18.2017	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman John Katko (NY-24) joined Congresswoman Claudia Tenney (NY-22) to invite the Secretary of the United States Air Force, Heather Wilson, to Central New York to tour the Air Force assets the 22nd and 24th Congressional Districts. In a letter to the newly confirmed Air Force Secretary, Tenney and Katko detailed the importance of the region’s Air Force assets and the value these installations provide to our national security. Central New York is home to three Air Force installations, including the Air National Guard’s 174th Fighter Wing, the Air Force Research Laboratory Information Directorate at Rome (Rome Lab) and the Eastern Air Defense Sector (EADS). Additionally, with five Wings and EADS, New York is home to the largest Air National Guard in the entire country. “It is an honor to join Congressman Katko today in extending an invitation to the Air Force Secretary to visit Central New York to see firsthand the important work being done by the installations in our districts. These Air Force installations play a vitally important role in research and development that further strengthen our readiness capabilities as well as our nation’s security,” said U.S. Rep. Claudia Tenney. ”Specifically, in the 22nd District, Rome Lab is on the forefront of advanced cyber research and development. Our country’s superiority in cyberspace is critical, and Rome Lab provides full spectrum support of cyber space operations. In a recent tour of Rome Lab, I had the opportunity see the many ways their staff is working to and enhance cyber-space operations and support systems to aid our warfighters on today’s high-tech battlefields. Additionally, the Air National Guard personnel at the Eastern Air Defense Sector, also located in the 22nd District, provide critical air defense for the Eastern Region of our nation. I look forward to the opportunity to share our region’s assets with Secretary Wilson in the near future.” “I was pleased to join Rep. Tenney in inviting the Air Force Secretary to visit Central New York and see first-hand our strong defense infrastructure,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “The 174th at Hancock Field is a premier unmanned aerial training facility which draws airmen from around the country to Central New York. Moreover, our regional defense operations work collaboratively, efficiently, and successfully. They are vital to our national security and to our local economy, and it would be an honor to host Secretary Wilson.” ###
05.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that, with his support, the Throop Fire Department in Cayuga County has received $88,572 in federal funding. The Palmyra Fire Department in Wayne County has received $163,917. This funding will allow the departments to purchase equipment necessary to respond to emergencies safely and effectively. The funding was provided through the Assistance to Firefighters (AFG) program, which is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “It is imperative that Central New York’s first responders have the resources they need to perform their jobs safely and in a timely manner,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “The federal grants that these local fire departments received will ensure the safety of our firefighters as they continue to risk their lives for Central New York each and every day.” The Department of Homeland Security’s AFG program was founded in 2001. It awards funding for local fire departments to obtain critically needed resources and equipment. The Throop Fire Department will use the funding to replace outdated self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.11.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today highlighted the need to protect some of Central New York’s most vital industries from unfair trade practices. “While trade can be of great benefit to our nation, currently, industries critical to Central New York’s economic future – including our dairy, steel, and aluminum industries – are falling victim to the unfair actions of other countries,” said Rep. Katko. “Our local companies can certainly hold their own against anyone when the playing field is level, and trade terms are fair. But when other countries put the full power of the state behind their producers by creating market distortions and providing unfair subsidies, the growth and survival of our local producers is at risk.” Standing before Byrne Dairy’s Ultra Dairy milk processing facility in Dewitt today, Rep. Katko detailed the impact of protectionist Canadian dairy policies on local milk processors, like Byrne Dairy, and the 300 local and family dairy farms that provide milk for Byrne’s manufacturing facilities. Recently, Canada made several revisions to its dairy policy, altering milk pricing programs to incentivize Canadian producers to buy ultra-filtered milk from Canadian farmers, rather than U.S. farmers. “Canadian protectionist dairy policies have made it nearly impossible for our U.S. producers to compete,” continued Rep. Katko. “The recent policy changes have shifted global milk markets and our local dairy farmers and milk processers are feeling the effects right here in Central New York. That’s why I’ve urged the Administration to take action by prioritizing this issue in upcoming NAFTA discussions.” Katko, who spent time yesterday at Nucor Steel in Auburn, and who has previously visited Novelis in Oswego, also raised the troubles facing the steel and aluminum industries because other nations, particularly China, are dumping heavily-subsidized products on the world market. “While the steel and aluminum industries here in Central New York certainly face different challenges than the dairy industry, they too have been gravely impacted by unfair trade policies. Currently, there is as global production overcapacity crisis confronting these important regional industries which has led to an increase in unfairly traded imports entering the U.S. market,” said Katko. “Foreign state-owned enterprises are not subject to the discipline of markets and can provide their companies with financial advantages by pumping in limitless cash to boost supply, even when there is insufficient market demand for what they're producing. This makes it difficult for our domestic manufacturers here in CNY to stay competitive, since they don’t have the same special advantages. For this reason, I’ve repeatedly urged the Department of Commerce to vigorously enforce all trade laws and, next week, I’ll testify at a public hearing of the U.S. International Trade Commission regarding unfair foreign trade practices in the rebar manufacturing industry, which is the primary product of Nucor’s Auburn facility.” In Congress, Rep. Katko has: Urged the Administration to prioritize addressing Canada’s protectionist dairy policies in upcoming discussions with our NAFTA partners. Repeatedly urged the Department of Commerce to enforce all trade laws. Called on the United States International Trade Commission to continue looking into steel and aluminum dumping. “Ensuring global market fairness is vital to the competitive conditions facing both our local dairy farmers and manufacturers and our regional aluminum and steelworkers,” concluded Katko. “We owe it to our workers to do everything we can to level the playing field. I am grateful that President Trump not only realizes the importance of fighting for fair trade terms, but that he has elevated the issue, and is committed to fighting for our local workers.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.11.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S Rep. John Katko (NY-24) penned the following op-ed published in The Hill highlighting the need to prioritize investment in water infrastructure. Rep. John Katko: Prioritizing Investment in Water Infrastructure The Hill Rep. John Katko May 10, 2017 President Trump has called for greater attention to our nation’s infrastructure, and rightfully so. Investing in infrastructure allows local governments to plan for the long-term, puts men and women back to work, and spurs economic growth. Yet, it is not simply our nation’s roads, bridges, airports and railways that desperately need attention. As Congress works to improve infrastructure, we must be mindful of the need to strengthen water infrastructure and ensure that systems nationwide are able to adapt to meet growing regional needs. From harmful algal blooms in lakes, to bursting water pipes and sewer problems in cities, to aging filtration systems — our nation faces water infrastructure challenges like never before. Communities small and large are confronting problems that are the result of aging infrastructure and inadequate funding at all levels of government. We must act. Each day that we allow our nation’s water infrastructure to deteriorate further, we risk public health catastrophes like the one in Flint, Mich. We risk economic growth held back because of limited availability of water for manufacturing and business. We risk greater cost to taxpayers in the form of bursting pipes, emergency water shutdowns and repairs. We must act. Each day that we allow our nation’s water infrastructure to deteriorate further, we risk public health catastrophes like the one in Flint, Mich. We risk economic growth held back because of limited availability of water for manufacturing and business. We risk greater cost to taxpayers in the form of bursting pipes, emergency water shutdowns and repairs. As the president and Congress consider proposals to address our nation’s infrastructure backlog, I will fight as a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to ensure water infrastructure receives the attention it deserves. First, I recognize the importance of providing resources to municipalities — rural and urban, small and large. That’s why I worked with colleagues from both sides of the aisle and every region of the country through the appropriations process to fight for the primary federal program that assists state and local governments with water infrastructure needs — the Drinking Water and the Clean Water State Revolving Funds. These programs have provided billions in interest-free loans and grants since their creations. The demands for these programs are skyrocketing — and I believe their funding must be increased. Separately, I co-led an effort to increase funding for the Department of Agriculture Water and Sewer Loan and Grant Program, which provides loans with reasonable terms, as well as grants, to small and rural communities to develop wastewater and drinking water infrastructure. As part of this effort, we also asked for increased funding to provide technical assistance to small communities to help with water regulation compliance and to provide personnel to assist small communities with source water protection plans. Next, threats to our drinking water must be continually monitored and confronted. In the Finger Lakes Region of New York in my district and in watersheds nationwide, we face a severe and mounting scourge: harmful algal blooms. While it is unclear what causes toxic algal blooms, they present severe health risks to humans and aquatic life. For that reason, research into the environmental and health concerns associated with algal blooms is vital. The House has acted to require the federal government to lay out a plan to better deal with algal blooms, and I led an effort requesting that Congress fully fund the Toxic Substances Hydrology Account to research these outbreaks and find ways of mitigating them. Ridding our drinking water systems and watersheds of these contaminants is essential for the health of our environment and future generations. The problems we face with harmful algal blooms and watershed restoration have been experienced by communities around the northeast and throughout the Great Lakes region. With this in mind, Congress created the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative in 2010 to assist with various needs, including major cleanups, invasive species control, habitat restoration for native species, and pollution research and prevention. My district has been a beneficiary of this program, which applies not only to the Great Lakes themselves, but also their surrounding regions. I have called for the permanent reauthorization of this program and was glad funding was included for it in the spending package that passed Congress earlier this month. As Congress moves forward to address the infrastructure needs of this country, I am mindful that we must keep spending in check and act carefully to make investments. As an indispensable public health and economic necessity, water infrastructure deserves to be prioritized. Each of these efforts will help leverage private financing, and create economic growth, while protecting access to clean water and restoring our natural resources at a relatively low cost to taxpayers. The priorities I’ve outlined are just a start. Strengthened water systems must remain a priority as we work to repair our nation’s infrastructure, and I will fight for that in Congress. Congressman John Katko serves on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. He represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
05.10.2017	DEWITT, NEW YORK – Standing beside animal advocacy groups and Central New York law enforcement at Dewitt Animal Hospital, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today unveiled bipartisan legislation he has introduced to protect animals seized under federal animal fighting and gambling statutes. The Help Extract Animals from Red Tape (HEART) Act, is bipartisan legislation which expedites the disposition of animals seized in federal animal fighting and gambling cases. The measure will reduce the length of time animals are held in shelters and ensure that individuals responsible for harm cover the cost of care, instead of taxpayers. “During my time as a federal prosecutor in Syracuse, I witnessed many cases involving senseless cruelty to animals and recognized that the system creates lengthy forfeiture cases that leave abused animals in shelters for months – unfairly placing the financial responsibility of care for these animals on CNY taxpayers,” said Rep. John Katko. “The HEART Act expedites the disposition of these animals, reduces the amount of time they are held in shelters, and importantly, shifts the cost of care for animals from the taxpayer to the individual responsible for harming the animal. I am proud this measure has gained the support of my colleagues in Congress on both sides of the aisle and has been included in comprehensive, bipartisan legislation aimed at reforming and improving federal forfeiture laws. I will continue to work here at home alongside our local leaders, law enforcement, and advocacy organizations to address the tolls of animal cruelty and abuse.” Rep. Katko was joined today in announcing the legislation by representatives from the ASPCA, Cuse Pit Crew, and the Humane Society, as well as the Syracuse Police Department. Stefanie Heath, Cuse Pit Crew President, said, "Animal abuse continues to be a problem here in Central NY. When Cuse Pit Crew hears about a violent crime committed against a dog, we feel discouraged knowing that the current system does not protect them from being isolated indefinitely in a shelter during court proceedings. We have witnessed first-hand the emotional and physical struggles that abused dogs endure while languishing in the shelter during the often drawn out legal process. Mr. Katko's HEART Act will ensure that these dogs are not re-victimized by the current system. We support the HEART Act and know that it can benefit countless abused dogs not only in Central NY, but throughout the country." "The ASPCA is grateful to Congressman Katko for his leadership on the HEART Act, which will remove the cumbersome red tape of the legal system that hinders the recovery process for victims of animal fighting," said Richard Patch, vice president of federal affairs for the ASPCA. "We thank Congressman Katko for his work to expedite the disposition of animals held in federal court cases, and we urge Congress to swiftly pass this legislation to help speed up the rehabilitation and re-homing of these animals." Specifically, the HEART Act: Accelerates the disposition process by reducing from 60 to 30 days the amount of time the government has to notify interested parties following the seizure of animals under the federal animal fighting or gambling statutes Requires the court to consider the animals’ welfare as well as the cost to the government when seeking to extend the notice period Requires claimants to reimburse the costs of caring for animals seized in federal animal fighting cases when the government prevails in civil forfeiture proceedings Gives judges the discretion to allow the consideration of the claimant’s culpability, financial condition, and other factors when requiring and determining reimbursement Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.10.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement regarding the termination of FBI Director James Comey: “The American people and Congress deserve a clear explanation into the rationale and timing of Director Comey’s termination. I expect to learn more in the coming days. Moving forward, it is imperative that a qualified, independent, and respected individual be nominated in a timely manner to lead the FBI. No matter who leads the Bureau, it is of utmost importance that the men and women of the FBI are able to continue their high quality and independent work, including the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.09.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S Rep. John Katko (NY-24) penned the following op-ed published on syracuse.com outlining his position on the Obamacare repeal effort. Rep. Katko: Why I voted against GOP healthcare bill Syracuse.com/Syracuse Post Standard By: Rep. John Katko May 9, 2017 With the healthcare debate center-stage in Washington, I would like to take the opportunity to outline my position on the Obamacare repeal effort as it moves to the Senate. The core of my viewpoint has been clear since I began running for Congress: Obamacare is deeply and systemically flawed, and left untouched it will collapse under its own weight with dire consequences for Central New York families and healthcare providers. For all of Obamacare's many faults, a repeal without a viable replacement would pull the rug out from under millions of Americans and worsen conditions in an already failing healthcare marketplace. That's why I have long maintained that we cannot repeal Obamacare without a viable replacement ready to take its place. Our nation's elected leaders have a duty to fix the underlying issues in our healthcare system, but with an industry as complex, large, and important as the health sector, replacement legislation has to be carefully considered and it has to be done right. I remain optimistic that Congress will eventually reach agreement on legislation that repeals Obamacare, while fully replacing it with a set of reforms that fix the big problems it caused. Last week, the House of Representatives voted on legislation that repeals significant parts of Obamacare and creates a tax credit program to aid the purchase of insurance by individuals and families. In taking this vote, I subjected the legislation to the same question that I have every other Obamacare repeal bill that has come before Congress: Does it both repeal and replace Obamacare? After fully reading the bill and repeatedly analyzing its provisions, I determined that the answer is no. In addition to being, at best, a partial replacement, I voted against this bill for four main reasons: it fails to address the ever-rising cost of care, it would gravely affect hospitals and access to care in New York, it could harm the viability of the already-weak individual health insurance market, and would place big new costs on New Yorkers. The most fundamental problem with healthcare in our country is the high and fast-rising cost of obtaining care. If we are going to make it easier for families and individuals to obtain affordable insurance, the first order of business is to halt rising costs and start to push them down. This bill did not contain adequate market reforms necessary to accomplish that. Instead, we are told that this bill is just a first step towards more comprehensive market reforms. I welcome further proposals, but the content, and political viability of such reforms remains entirely unclear. On its own, this bill leaves the issue of rising costs largely unaddressed. For individuals who choose to purchase insurance, we need to make sure there is a viable and competitive individual insurance marketplace on which to do so. I am concerned that this legislation would weaken the individual insurance marketplace because the tax credit system on which the bill is based would not provide adequate incentive for healthy young consumers to purchase insurance. Striking a balance in the marketplace that ensures protections for older Americans, and those with pre-existing conditions, while also providing affordable insurance options to young consumers has long been a challenge in our nation's healthcare sector. The measure before the House last week did not do enough to attract young, healthy individuals to balance out the healthcare marketplace. This could lead to spiraling premium costs, or even the failure of segments of the health insurance industry. Finally, I am deeply concerned that New Yorkers would take a big financial hit as a result of this legislation. The bill phases out an expansion of the Medicaid program that took place under Obamacare. That means a massive loss in federal funding to the State of New York - more than $4.5 billion, according to most estimates. New Yorkers would be forced to pick up the tab, very likely through higher state or local taxes. My job as the representative for Central New York is to look after the interests of my constituents while ensuring that critical national priorities are addressed. I take that duty seriously, and I cannot square it with a piece of legislation that would deliver a big financial hit to Central New York. I'm confident that voting "no" was the right decision for the people of my district, but whether or not this bill ultimately gets passed by both houses of Congress, the work of ensuring an affordable, market-based, patient-centered healthcare system has just begun. I remain hopeful that my colleagues in the Senate will act to pursue patient-centered reforms - including tort reform, interstate competition and association plans - and present the president with a measure worthy of his signature. I remain committed to engaging in that process. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
05.09.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) will participate in a live town hall event next Monday, May 15th at 7:00 p.m. at Onondaga Community College. The town hall is hosted by CNY Central and will be broadcast on WSTM-NBC 3 and WTVH-CBS 5. It will be streamed online at cnycentral.com and on Facebook. Matt Mulcahy, Megan Coleman, and Michael Benny will serve as moderators for the event. “Since I was elected to represent Central New York in Congress, I’ve hosted numerous community forums as well as regular telephone town hall meetings. This town hall is another opportunity to hear directly from the people that I represent on the issues most important to them,” said Rep. John Katko. “The town hall will be broadcast on television and live streamed online to ensure that thousands of families across the 24th Congressional District are able to tune in.” The one-hour event will be devoted entirely to questions, selected at random, from in-audience attendees and via social media. More information on the town hall, including how to sign up, can be found here. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the Western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
05.08.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and John Delaney (MD-6) filed bipartisan legislation to help Americans struggling with excessive student loan debt. The Discharge Student Loans in Bankruptcy Act (H.R. 2366) reforms federal bankruptcy rules to establish parity between student loan debt and other forms of debt. Under current law, student loan debt cannot be discharged. “In this economy, new graduates are faced with many difficulties as they transition out of college and enter the workforce – and student loan debt is at the top of that list. Addressing the high cost of college and the crushing burden of student loan debt requires innovative and thoughtful changes in policy,” said U.S. Representative John Katko. “In the case where financially stressed student loan borrowers have no other option but to seek bankruptcy relief, these individuals are unable to discharge their student loan debt. While this is a last option for many, it should not be the case that student loan debt is the only form of debt that cannot be discharged and the measure that I’ve put forth with Rep. Delaney corrects that problem. We must continue to explore ways to make borrowing simpler and more manageable for students so that higher education can remain accessible to students from all backgrounds.” “Student loan debt is dragging down economic growth and keeping the American Dream out of reach for many. While student loan debt is a complex problem that will require many solutions – increased support for grant programs, efforts to increase affordability, improved consumer education and transparency – we also need to reform our bankruptcy laws to help those with the absolute greatest need. Right now, there is effectively a huge student loan loophole in bankruptcy law that’s hurting real people,” said Congressman Delaney. “Bankruptcy has long been an option of last resort for individuals facing an irresolvable level of debt; bankruptcy isn’t easy or enjoyable, but it’s a necessary part of our financial system. It doesn’t make sense for students with heavy debt burdens to be worse off than someone with credit card debt or mortgage debt. Every member of Congress from every state in the country has constituents who are struggling severely because of student loan debt. At the very least we should have some basic fairness in the law.” Last year, total U.S. student loan debt reached a record level of $1.3 trillion dollars, the 18th consecutive year with a cumulative increase, according the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Rep. Katko has prioritized addressing student loan debt and making higher education more affordable. In addition to introducing this legislation, he has championed measures in Congress to address the student loan crisis program by allowing increased refinancing of federal student loans and expanding Pell Grants. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the Western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) this evening released the following statement regarding the FY2017 Appropriations bill, which passed the House today with bipartisan support: “As Central New York’s Representative in Congress, I have long maintained that we must avoid government shutdowns. As legislators, we have a duty to ensure the government remains functional and today’s bill accomplishes that. This agreement is far from perfect, but it advances some significant priorities for Central New York and for our country. This measure prioritizes our national security by increasing funding for defense and strengthening border security. Importantly for Central New York, it includes much-needed funding to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic through grants, improved access to prevention and treatment services, and support for law enforcement. With a funding agreement in place through the end of the fiscal year, we may now continue to tackle the heavy agenda before us this Congress.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that, with his support, the Volney Volunteer Fire Corporation in Fulton has received $39,810 in federal funding to purchase equipment critical to providing reliable breathing air for firefighters. The funding was provided through the Assistance to Firefighters (AFG) program, which is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “The men and women who volunteer at the Volney Volunteer Fire Corporation put their lives on the line to ensure the safety and security of our community,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24). “This grant will help ensure that these firefighters have the resources they need to respond effectively and efficiently, and I was proud to support this application for funding.” The Department of Homeland Security’s AFG program was founded in 2001. It awards funding for local fire departments to obtain critically needed resources and equipment. The Volney Volunteer Fire Corporation will use the funding to purchase an air compressor/cascade SCBA fill station. Since 1948, the Volney Volunteer Fire Company has remained committed to protecting over 6,000 residents in the Town of Volney and its surrounding communities. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. John Katko (R-NY-24) and Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) co-hosted a bipartisan briefing on the benefits of collaborative care for children’s mental health, kicking off May as National Mental Health Awareness Month. “I was proud to join my colleague Rep. Napolitano as we continue our efforts to improve access to pediatric mental health care,” said Rep. John Katko. “At home in Central New York, our Mental Health Task Force recently released a comprehensive report detailing the need to improve regional adolescent mental health care. In Congress, I’ll continue to fight for policies to improve early identification of behavioral and mental health issues among children, expand innovative and unique treatment practices, and incentivize healthcare providers to pursue careers in mental health care. We had an excellent discussion on these issues and I thank our panelists for joining us in the fight to strengthen mental health care across this country.” “Our fight to end stigma starts with the youngest children in America, so from an early age they understand it is always okay to ask for help,” Rep. Napolitano said. “I am so grateful to Congressman Katko for his partnership and passion, and to all of our panelists for raising their voices on behalf of millions of children and families nationwide. We also thank those who joined us, near and far, for helping reduce stigma and bringing critical awareness for increased collaboration among doctors to effectively address children’s mental health needs. We must continue to coalesce our efforts toward our shared goal of ensuring access and affordability of these services for children from all socioeconomic levels, backgrounds, and ZIP codes.” According to the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), half of all mental illnesses begin by age 14 and 75% by age 24. Yet, there are long delays from the onset of symptoms to intervention. There are also many children, youth and young adults who are unable to access effective services and support. Panelists at the briefing included Gregory K. Fritz, M.D., Professor and Director of Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry & Vice Chair of the Dept. of Psychiatry and Human Behavior at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Academic Director of E. P. Bradley Hospital, and President of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP); Lee Beers, M.D., Medical Director for Municipal & Regional Affairs of Child Health Advocacy Institute at Children’s National Health System, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics at George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences; Phoebe Lisle, a youth with lived experience; and Kit Lisle, father of Phoebe and producer for This is My Brave. They examined the lack of access to specialized care many young children and adolescents experience when living with mental illness and highlighted ways to address those gaps through collaborative care. “Integrated care is the single most powerful force we have to change and improve the mental health of children in the United States,” said Dr. Fritz. “Our biggest obstacle is lack of information and education. A day like today which brings together a diverse group of people, like advocates, families, and staffers can do a lot for integrated care. I wish it happened every week.” “Involving pediatricians in mental health services to increase access for children and families really has the potential to have enormous impact but doesn’t yet have the support and infrastructure behind it to be fully implemented across the country,” said Dr. Beers. “This type of briefing helps raise awareness and support for services, and bring attention to a very important and needed issue as well as the value of the collaboration between pediatricians and mental health providers in improving care for children and families. “My daughter Phoebe is fortunate enough to have a primary care physician and a number of specialists who are collaborating, coordinating, and integrating their care, but we haven’t always had that,” said Kit Lisle. “We have that today because we are paying for it out of pocket, paying for them to spend the time communicating. This is not right. Not everybody has access to the funds to make sure their specialists and primary care physicians are actually coordinating with one another. We are sharing our personal story in the hopes it will bring needed reform.” “I just want every young person like me to be able to have the same resources and care that I continue to receive,” said Phoebe Lisle. “There shouldn’t be a gap between insurance-funded and privately-funded doctors. All children in need must have the same coverage available to them, regardless of their parents’ ability to pay for those costs.” The briefing was attended by more than 60 mental health advocates and congressional staff. A recording of the livestreamed video can be viewed here. Since 1949, May has been observed as National Mental Health Awareness Month, a time when advocates and activists across the country draw attention to the mental health issues that affect as many as one in four Americans. In Central New York, Rep. John Katko has focused extensively on improving access to pediatric mental health care. Earlier this year, he joined Assemblyman Bill Magnarelli in releasing a bipartisan Task Force report outlining the largest gaps in youth behavioral and mental health services in Central New York. The report provided recommendations to improve access to care. The full Task Force report can be accessed here. Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Following a multi-year investigation into insider threats facing our nation’s airports, bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) this evening unanimously passed the U.S. House of Representatives. The bipartisan Aviation Employee Screening and Security Enhancement Act will help mitigate an increasingly disturbing threat to the safety of the traveling public by enhancing screening of airport and aviation employees. “There remain serious vulnerabilities and gaps in employee screening at airports nationwide. Frighteningly, we have seen multiple examples of aviation workers with access to secure areas of airports being involved in serious criminal activities, including terror plotting, after being radicalized,”said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “We cannot allow these lapses in security to continue placing the traveling public at risk. After a number of insider threat-related attacks at airport overseas, along with plots here in the United States, it is essential that we act on this legislation. This bill will enhance employee-vetting requirements, improve procedures governing the way airports issue security credentials, and reform TSA’s employee screening operations to be more targeted and effective. It will also provide policymakers with critical, previously unavailable data relating to the cost and feasibility of providing full employee screening at domestic airports.” Earlier this year, Rep. Katko’s Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee released a telling report on airport insider threats, which painted a disturbing picture of security vulnerabilities and gaps in employee screening and access controls at airports across the country. Just three days after the release of this report, news broke of a massive drug smuggling ring between Puerto Rico and the Continental United States involving both TSA and airport employees. This network of criminals exploited their access to secure areas of airports to smuggle 20 tons—or $100 million-worth of cocaine into the United States—into communities nationwide. The bill is Rep. Katko’s fourth bipartisan measure to pass the House this Congress. Congressman John Katko chairs the House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Transportation Security. He represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties, and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit Katko.house.gov or facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today highlighted the heroin and synthetic drug epidemic affecting Central New York at a White House Listening Session on drug abuse. Gov. Chris Christie, who is leading the President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis, hosted Rep. Katko and a small group of Congressmen and women from across the country today to focus on legislative ideas for combating drug abuse. Rep. Katko was invited to participate in today’s Listening Session because of his demonstrated commitment to addressing the heroin and synthetic drug epidemic and his background as a federal organized crime and narcotics prosecutor. “I’ve heard painful stories of loss and addiction from far too many families across Central New York. Today, I had the opportunity to share these stories and to highlight to the Administration the dire need to act,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko following today’s listening session. “At home in Central New York and in Congress, I’ve prioritized combating the heroin and synthetic drug epidemic plaguing our community. I applaud the Administration for working to address this critical issue and will continue to fight for reforms to bolster support for our law enforcement, improve prevention, treatment, and education efforts, and ensure that everyone who seeks treatment is able to receive it.” Rep. Katko has long championed action at home and in Congress to address the heroin and synthetic drug epidemic. Through multiple public listening sessions across the 24th Congressional District, Rep. Katko has worked to raise awareness locally and to connect members of the community seeking treatment and addiction resources with local experts. In Congress, Rep. Katko has prioritized addressing both the heroin and synthetic drug epidemic. During the 114th Congress, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) was signed into law, which included provisions authored by Katko to strengthen the ability of the federal government to prosecute international drug traffickers. Additionally, he introduced and passed through the House bipartisan legislation to ban chemicals used in making synthetic drugs, and has introduced and championed legislation aimed at making it easier for local law enforcement to prosecute the sale and distribution of synthetic substances. Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Amid dangerous flooding in shoreline communities along Lake Ontario, U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and Chris Collins (NY-27) this week highlighted to President Donald Trump the already devastating impact of the International Joint Commission (IJC) Plan 2014 on communities in Central and Western New York. Plan 2014 was pushed through by the Obama Administration in December 2016 after years of stagnancy. In a letter sent this week, Reps. Katko and Collins outlined to President Trump the critical situation along the southern shoreline of Lake Ontario and urged the President to both withdraw from Plan 2014 and fill the vacancy left on the IJC by the resignation of Dereth Glance last year. “With unprecedented increases in water levels along the southern shore of Lake Ontario, homeowners in Sodus Point are currently facing an incredibly dire and costly situation. I spent time in Sodus Point last week with Mayor Chris Tertinek, and there is no question that the heightened water levels have already caused property damage and shoreline erosion,” said Rep. John Katko. “With the implementation of Plan 2014, we will continue to see magnified, drastic changes in water levels and property owners in shoreline communities across Wayne County will be left with no guaranteed compensation. Together with Rep. Collins, I’ve fought against Plan 2014 from the start and this week we’ve urged the administration to permanently withdraw from Plan 2014 to avoid further damage.” “Plan 2014 has been an utter disaster for Lake Ontario taxpayers and communities since it was approved in the final minutes of the Obama Administration,” said Congressman Chris Collins. “Both the property damage and overflow of debris into Lake Ontario that I inspected today could have been avoided. I will continue working with Congressman Katko and the Trump Administration to reform the IJC and repeal Plan 2014 as soon as possible.” Together, Reps. Katko and Collins have consistently raised concerns over the IJC’s Plan 2014 with officials at all levels of government. ###
04.21.2017	AUBURN, NEW YORK – Standing with a bipartisan group of local legislators at Emerson Park on the northern shore of Owasco Lake, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today highlighted his efforts in Congress to strengthen Central New York’s water infrastructure. Representative Katko was joined by Auburn Mayor Michael Quill, Cayuga County Legislature Chairman Keith Batman, and Town of Owasco Supervisor Ed Wagner. “From harmful algal blooms here in Owasco Lake, to bursting pipes in Syracuse, to sewer problems in Oswego, to aging filtration systems in communities around the district, our region faces water infrastructure challenges like never before,” said Rep. Katko. “Communities small and large are confronting the problems that result from aging infrastructure, and inadequate funding at all levels of government to deal with the problem. But failure to deal with these problems risks our economic growth, risks public health catastrophes like the one in Flint, Michigan, and risks greater cost to CNY taxpayers in the form of bursting pipes, emergency shutdowns, and repairs.” Rep. Katko, acknowledging the vast challenges faced by municipalities across NY-24, has advocated in Congress for numerous programs to improve water infrastructure across the region. “In Central New York, we are lucky to have plenty of water. We need to protect it, and ensure that families and businesses can access it safely and easily,” continued Rep. Katko. “Since I began representing our community in Congress, I've been working in every way possible to do just that. Just recently, I led multiple bipartisan efforts urging House appropriators to double funding for Clean Water and Drinking State Revolving Funds, to invest in research into Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs), and to prioritize programs for small and rural communities to develop wastewater and drinking water infrastructure. I will continue to advocate for these and other programs to improve our infrastructure in Congress, and I appreciate the local support of Mayor Quill, Chairman Batman, and Supervisor Wagner here today.” Focused on strengthening water infrastructure for Central New York, Representative Katko has: Led a bipartisan effort requesting doubling of the Clean Water and State Water Revolving Funds. This is the primary federal program that provides financial assistance for states and local communities nationwide to make high priority water investments. The majority of public water systems and municipalities across NY-24 depend on these funds to maintain and repair local water infrastructure. This letter to House appropriators received 77 bipartisan signatures. Led a bipartisan effort advocating for robust funding of the USGS Toxic Substances Hydrology Account, which funds research into Harmful Algal Blooms, their cause, and methods of mitigation. With HABs gravely impacting Owasco Lake and the Finger Lakes region generally, Rep. Katko has also supported legislation in the House to require the federal government to lay out a plan to better deal with algal blooms. Co-led an effort in the House to increase funding for the U.S. Department of Agriculture Water and Sewer Loan & Grant Program, which provides loans with reasonable terms, as well as grants, to small and rural communities to develop wastewater and drinking water infrastructure. Rep. Katko also advocated for increased funding for the Circuit Riders Program, which provides technical assistance to small communities to help with compliance with water regulations, and water facility operations. Requested funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GRLI) at $300 million. The GLRI is a program designed to address the most significant problems in the Great Lakes, and aims to protect, restore and maintain the Great Lakes ecosystem. It provides federal funds to various initiatives, including major cleanups, invasive species control, habitat restoration for native species, and pollution research and prevention. In the 24th Congressional District, the GLRI has provided grants to counties, towns, and schools to complete environmental restoration and preservation projects on the Finger Lakes in our region and their watersheds. Introduced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize and enhance the EPA’s Brownfields Program. This program provides funding necessary to rehabilitate blighted land that was once used for industry, or for the processing or storage of toxic materials and waste and communities throughout the 24th Congressional District have repeatedly benefited from this program. Called for robust funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which has helped provide funding to groups across the region to protect the environment and waters of public parks and recreation areas. Supported the North American Wetlands Conservation Act, which has provided grants to groups in the 24th Congressional District to clean up the Finger Lakes, open up tributaries, and maintain watersheds. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.11.2017	SYRACUSE, N.Y. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that Le Moyne College has been awarded a $1,190,512 grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to recruit, enroll, and prepare 18 undergraduate students in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) fields to obtain New York State teaching certification. Representative Katko supported the application submitted by Le Moyne College for this federal funding. Le Moyne College will collaborate with local organizations, including the Syracuse City School District, Onondaga County Libraries, On Point for College, the Museum of Science and Technology, and Baltimore Woods Nature Center, to establish the program and prepare 18 undergraduate students to embark upon careers in STEM education serving high-need school districts in Central New York. The funding was awarded through the NSF Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship program. This program responds to the critical need for K-12 teachers of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) by encouraging talented STEM students and professionals to pursue teaching careers in elementary and secondary schools. “STEM education is key to our economic future, and it is critical that we equip our local students with the skills they need to pursue careers in these innovative and high-demand fields,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24). “This major grant to Le Moyne College will help recruit and develop educators so that they can equip our local, high-need students with STEM skills. I commend Le Moyne College for partnering with the organizations in our community that need these resources most, and I was proud to support this application for funding.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.11.2017	SYRACUSE, N.Y. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced his office is now accepting entries for the annual Artistic Discovery Congressional Art Competition from high school students residing in New York’s 24th Congressional District. Each year, students from across the country participate in the Congressional Art Competition. The winning piece of artwork is displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one full year. “Central New York is home to many gifted young artists and this competition is an excellent opportunity to showcase our local talent in the U.S. Capitol,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Each year, we receive many diverse and unique entries. I look forward to seeing this year’s submissions.” Guidelines for submission are below: Artwork may be up to 26 inches wide by 26 inches tall by four inches thick, must be two dimensional, be original in concept, design, and execution, must not weigh more than 15 pounds, and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. Accepted artwork includes paintings (including oil, acrylics and watercolor), drawings (including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers), collage (must be two dimensional), prints (including lithographs, silkscreen, and block prints), mixed media, computer generated art, and photography/ Artwork must be submitted with a completed copy of the competition release form to one of Rep. Katko’s district offices by April 27, 2017. Judging will take place on May 3, 2017, and winners will be announced on May 9, 2017. Additional information regarding the Artistic Discovery Congressional Art Competition can be found here. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.07.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding U.S. military strikes in Syria: “The horrific and barbaric chemical attacks by the Assad regime against innocent civilians, including children, warranted strong and measured action. Targeted U.S. strikes on the air base from which these chemical attacks emanated were a proportional response to this horrible atrocity. Given the complexity of the conflict in Syria, I urge the Administration to articulate its strategy moving forward. As always, our Armed Forces acted bravely, professionally, and successfully, and I remain committed to ensuring they have the resources to be safe and successful.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.31.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding the completed sale of the James A. FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant: “After over a year of uncertainty, I am thrilled with today’s news that the sale of the FitzPatrick Nuclear Power plant has been finalized. Throughout this process, I’ve worked with the companies, local and state leaders, and the hardworking men and women employed at FitzPatrick to ensure a smooth transition. The nuclear industry remains a critical economic driver here in Central New York, and I will continue to be a steadfast champion for this clean, dependable source of power.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he has introduced bipartisan legislation with U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT -5) to help communities in Central New York and nationwide revitalize neighborhoods and spur economic development through Brownfields reassessment and remediation. The Brownfields Reauthorization Act of 2017 would reauthorize the Brownfields program at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). In the 24th Congressional District, Auburn, Wolcott, Fulton, Oswego, and Syracuse have benefited from this program. “With Onondaga Lake in our backyard, Central New Yorkers know all too well the impact of industrial pollution. The Brownfields program has been a critical aid to the redevelopment and reuse of blighted properties not only in Syracuse, but also in Auburn, Fulton, Oswego, and Wolcott, among other sites throughout the region,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Redevelopment of Brownfields sites helps to revitalize neighborhoods, spur economic development, and create jobs. This legislation preserves and enhances the EPA Brownfields Program and I’m proud to work with Rep. Esty to move this measure forward in a bipartisan manner.” Reps. Katko and Esty both serve as members of the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. In a hearing this week, Rep. Katko highlighted the impact of the Brownfields program for Central New York and communities nationwide. Brownfields are segments of land that were once used for industrial purposes or commercial use. nOften, this land is contaminated with hazardous waste or pollution, and requires environmental remediation. Originally authorized in 2002, the EPA’s Brownfield Program empowers states, communities, and stakeholders to assess, clean up, and redevelop these sites. However, the EPA’s Brownfield program expired in 2006, though it has continued to receive nominal funding. Local government officials from across NY-24 applauded Rep. Katko’s efforts in introducing this legislation. This legislation would reauthorize the EPA Brownfields program through Fiscal Year 2022, at a rate of $250 million per year. It would also increase the cleanup grant amount from $200,000 to $600,000, as well as expand eligibility requirements to certain nonprofits, limited liability corporations, limited partnerships, and community development entities. Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney said, "The Brownfields program has been a vital tool for our community to reclaim old, abandoned industrial sites in need of remediation. I am grateful to Congressman Katko for his work on this important issue and appreciate his leadership to further enhance this valuable program." “The Brownfields program has helped us invest in and transform properties throughout Oswego County,” stated City of Oswego Mayor Billy Barlow. “I applaud Congressman John Kato for prioritizing the reauthorization and expansion of this program so that we can continue to work towards a stronger, revitalized Oswego.” City of Auburn Mayor Michael D. Quill said, “As Mayor of a small city in upstate New York, it is often a challenging task to identify, address and revitalize parcels that have been affected by contamination. In 2010, the City of Auburn benefited from the US EPA Brownfield Assessment Program for both hazardous and petroleum sites. The US EPA Brownfield Assessments grants were instrumental in identifying vacant, underutilized parcels as well as conducting thirteen Phase I and nine Phase II environmental site assessments for properties located near the Downtown Business District, along the Owasco River and within our neighborhoods. The US EPA Brownfield Assessment Grants also provided the framework for securing a NYS Brownfield Opportunity Area (BOA) Nomination 2 Study. The work completed under both the US EPA Brownfields Assessment Grants and the NYS BOA has positioned the city to be more proactive in managing brownfields sites and more competitive for redevelopment. Although the City has been proactively addressing Brownfield sites within our community, we still have many challenges. Brownfield sites are complex and are extremely costly to clean up. It is essential for our community as well as others plagued by brownfields to have the assistance necessary for assessment and cleanup of these sites. The US EPA Brownfield programs have been and continue to be critical in fostering the redevelopment and reuse of these blighted sites. After all, it is the redevelopment and reuse of these sites that will ultimately clean our environment, create recreational opportunities, provide employment, and revitalize our neighborhoods.” Wayne County Board of Supervisors Chairman Steve Le Roy stated, “The Brownfields program is critical to redeveloping former industrial properties across Wayne County. This program allows us to transform sites in our community while creating jobs and stimulating the local economy. We greatly appreciate Congressman Katko’s leadership in helping to redevelop sites in Wayne County and across the region.” The Brownfields Reauthorization Act of 2017 would also benefit Area-Wide Revitalization Planning Grants, which are commonly used by communities when creating long-term remediation plans for brownfield sites. These grants assist communities assess a site and the state of its infrastructure, determine the level of investment needed, and identify private and public resources available at the local and federal level while keeping current and future markets in mind. Planning Grants oftentimes expedite the time frame between the assessment and cleanup of a brownfield site. It is estimated that there are over 450,000 brownfield sites across the country, with at least one brownfield site in every congressional district. Of these sites, 59,000 areas have been remediated and revitalized. According to a 2007 study, every acre of brownfields redevelopment creates approximately ten jobs. Additionally, on average, for every $1 dollar spent through the EPA’s Brownfields program leverages an average of $18 in outside investment. This bill will be introduced and referred to both the House Energy and Commerce Committee and House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. ###
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today joined a bipartisan group of his colleagues, Reps. Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Brian Mast (R-FL), and Jacky Rosen (D-NV), in introducing legislation to increase federal penalties for making bomb threats, and provide $20 million in additional funding to the Department of Homeland Security to safeguard faith-based community centers. The bill, which already has the support of 28 other members, would provide $20 million in additional funding to the Department of Homeland Security under the existing State Homeland Security Grant Program specifically dedicated to safeguarding faith-based community centers. Additionally, it would double the federal penalty against making bomb threats from five years to ten years. “With recurrent threats to Jewish Community Centers around the country and right here in Central New York, it is vital that we act to stop and prevent these unacceptable criminal acts. This bill is critical to that effort,” said Rep. John Katko (NY-24). “By doubling the federal penalty for a person convicted of a bomb threat and authorizing grants to safeguard faith-based community centers, we can help to restore safety and security to our communities. I’m proud to work with a bipartisan group in Congress to advance this measure forward.” “I applaud our local Congressman John Katko and his bipartisan colleagues for introducing this much needed legislation aimed at making our facility and other Jewish community centers around the country safer,” said Marci Erlebacher, executive director of the Sam Pomeranz Jewish Community Center in Syracuse. “Jewish community centers such as ours are the nucleus of our nation’s Jewish communities. We have been hit hard by these threats of violence and now all JCCs feel an urgent need for increased security measures. We will not be deterred from providing quality services and programs for individuals of all ages and faiths in our Central New York region. We greatly appreciate the assistance that this bill will offer us to continue in our mission.” Last month, Rep. Katko called on the Department of Homeland Security, Department of Justice, and Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) to address mass bomb threats at Jewish Community Centers nationwide. Similar legislation was introduced in the US. Senate by Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-NM) and Sen. Dean Heller (R-NV). ###
03.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement urging the U.S. Senate to confirm Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court: “I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act quickly in confirming Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court. “In his testimony before the U.S. Senate last week, Judge Gorsuch demonstrated his ability to fairly and impartially apply the law, his dedication to upholding the rights set forth by the U.S. Constitution, and his commitment to ensuring justice. He is well qualified to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court. “As a former federal prosecutor, I recognize the necessity of filling this vacancy. A full and operative Supreme Court is vital to the functionality of our nation’s justice system. Last year, I urged the Senate to fulfill its duty in holding hearings to approve or reject Judge Merrick Garland. Now, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the Senate to put partisanship aside and confirm Judge Gorsuch to fill the vacancy on our Supreme Court.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today applauded action taken by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to move forward the Great Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary. NOAA today announced that it had reviewed the southeastern Lake Ontario nomination and accepted it into the inventory of areas that could be considered for designation as a national marine sanctuary in the future. “This is a critical step forward for our local leaders, advocates, and members of the community who have worked tirelessly to raise awareness for this project,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “This designation has the potential to grow tourism and boost our local economy while preserving some of our region’s most historic and unique natural resources. As one of only a few accepted sanctuaries nationwide, I urge the Administration to swiftly take action to ensure that this nomination receives proper consideration.” National marine sanctuaries are designated by the federal government and administered by NOAA. These underwater sanctuaries are designated for research, education, and protection. Earlier this year, the application for status for the southeastern Lake Ontario region was submitted by representatives from Oswego, Cayuga, Wayne, and Jefferson counties and the City of Oswego. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following today’s announcement that the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) has temporarily prohibited electronics in carry-on bags on certain U.S.-bound flights, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee, highlighted the continued need to address evolving threats to aviation and to airports nationwide. Rep. Katko, whose subcommittee has sole jurisdiction over TSA matters, stated, “The new security measures put in place by the TSA at high risk Last Point of Departure (LPD) airports are a clear response to the ever-changing threats that we face. In the current heightened threat environment, aviation remains a top target for terrorist organizations. The measures put forth today by the TSA will help ensure the safety of the traveling public. In Congress, my subcommittee will continue to support the efforts of the TSA and the Administration to enhance our aviation security.” Since 2015, Rep. Katko has led the House Homeland Security efforts to enhance aviation security. This oversight has complemented a broader and ongoing review of TSA’s operations, policies and procedures. Just yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed the TSA Administrator Modernization Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation introduced by Rep. Katko to address leadership issues plaguing the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the TSA was created within the Department of Transportation to address aviation security vulnerabilities. At that time, the TSA Administrator was given a five-year term. However, when TSA and its functions transferred to the Department of Homeland Security a year later, the five-year term officially terminated in statute. Today the TSA faces many bureaucratic challenges, stemming from a lack of consistent leadership. The TSA Administrator Modernization Act addresses this by re-establishing the Administrator’s position and five-year term. Speaking on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday in support of this bill, U.S. Rep. John Katko stated, “Many of the issues and bureaucratic challenges that TSA faces today stem from a lack of consistent leadership at the top. Since I came to Congress in January 2015, TSA has had five different individuals serve as Administrator—both as appointees and as acting administrators. This is a staggering number. While this is only one step in addressing the many challenges at TSA, this legislation will provide for more consistent leadership and transparency, which is an important responsibility of Congress, especially at such a critical security agency.” Congressman John Katko serves on the House Homeland Security Committee where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Due to evening votes scheduled in the U.S. House of Representatives this Thursday, March 23, the below event has been rescheduled for Thursday, March 30 at 6:30 p.m. at Oswego City Hall in the Common Council Chambers. U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he will host a public forum next week focused on combating heroin and synthetic drug abuse. The event will be held Thursday, March 30 at 6:30 p.m. at Oswego City Hall in the Common Council Chambers. Like past community forums, Rep. Katko will be joined by a panel of community advocates and parents, healthcare professionals, educators, prevention and treatment specialists, as well as local law enforcement and community responders to answer questions. “There is no question that the heroin and synthetic drug epidemic has hit our region hard. I’ve heard from countless members of our community seeking treatment and addiction resources,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “These forums provide an excellent opportunity for individuals who are struggling with addiction and their families to gain information and support from members of our community who work on the front lines every day to combat this epidemic.” The event is Katko’s seventh public community forum since 2015. The event is free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Time will be allotted for questions. Details are as follows: A Community Conversation on Heroin & Synthetic Drug AbuseThursday, March 30 at 6:30 p.m. Oswego City Hall, Common Council Chambers 13 W. Oneida Street, 2nd Floor City of Oswego The meeting will be moderated by Oswego County District Attorney Greg Oakes. Panelists include: City of Oswego Assistant Fire Chief John Chawgo Jiancheng Huang, Director of Public Health, Oswego County Health Department Michael Batstone, Investigator with the Oswego County Drug Task Force Monika Taylor, LCSW, CASAC, Director of Chemical Dependency Treatment Services for Crouse Hospital Jill Gillman, Senior RN, Oswego Health Emergency Department Penny Morley, MS, CAS, Prevention Services Director at Farnham Family Services & Member of the Coalition to Combat Substance Abuse A representative from Chemical Dependency Counselor for County of Oswego Council on Alcoholism and Addictions, Inc. (COCOAA) Teresa Woolson, President of the VOW Foundation & Member of the Coalition to Combat Substance Abuse John and Tina Socci, Heroin Epidemic Action League (H.E.A.L.) Cayuga County Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding the current healthcare legislation before the House: “Obamacare has failed to keep its promises. Large insurers are pulling out of exchanges; co-ops are failing, premiums are skyrocketing; and deductibles are high. Left untouched, Obamacare will collapse and American healthcare consumers will be the victims. “My position on Obamacare has been clear since I first ran for office in 2014: we need to repeal or radically restructure the law, and have a replacement ready at the time we do so. Despite some promising reforms, I do not support the proposal before the House in its current form. This bill represents only the first step of a long process of healthcare reform and it is not at all clear what the final form will look like. Substantial future administrative and legislative action would be needed. “Fundamentally, I don't believe this proposal provides an adequate market-based option for insurance access, nor does it address out-of-control costs. Further, I am confident the proposal would harm hospitals across my district. Hurting New York State, to benefit other regions does not sit well with me. “The Administration and Leaders in Congress deserve credit for starting this process. But we should take the time to ensure a viable market-based alternative to Obamacare is ready simultaneous with the repeal. I believe we can get there.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.17.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he will host a public forum next week focused on combating heroin and synthetic drug abuse. The event will be held Thursday, March 23 at 6:30 p.m. at Oswego City Hall in the Common Council Chambers. Like past community forums, Rep. Katko will be joined by a panel of community advocates and parents, healthcare professionals, educators, prevention and treatment specialists, as well as local law enforcement and community responders to answer questions. “There is no question that the heroin and synthetic drug epidemic has hit our region hard. I’ve heard from countless members of our community seeking treatment and addiction resources,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “These forums provide an excellent opportunity for individuals who are struggling with addiction and their families to gain information and support from members of our community who work on the front lines every day to combat this epidemic.” The event is Katko’s seventh public community forum since 2015. The event is free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Time will be allotted for questions. Details are as follows: A Community Conversation on Heroin & Synthetic Drug AbuseThursday, March 23 at 6:30 p.m. Oswego City Hall, Common Council Chambers 13 W. Oneida Street, 2nd Floor City of Oswego The meeting will be moderated by Oswego County District Attorney Greg Oakes. Panelists include: City of Oswego Assistant Fire Chief John Chawgo Jiancheng Huang, Director of Public Health, Oswego County Health Department Michael Batstone, Investigator with the Oswego County Drug Task Force Monika Taylor, LCSW, CASAC, Director of Chemical Dependency Treatment Services for Crouse Hospital Jill Gillman, Senior RN, Oswego Health Emergency Department Penny Morley, MS, CAS, Prevention Services Director at Farnham Family Services & Member of the Coalition to Combat Substance Abuse A representative from Chemical Dependency Counselor for County of Oswego Council on Alcoholism and Addictions, Inc. (COCOAA) Teresa Woolson, President of the VOW Foundation & Member of the Coalition to Combat Substance Abuse John and Tina Socci, Heroin Epidemic Action League (H.E.A.L.) Cayuga County Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding the announced retirement of Syracuse VA Medical Director James Cody: “It has been an absolute pleasure working alongside Syracuse VA Medical Director James Cody during my time as Central New York’s Representative in Congress. For thirty-eight years, Director Cody has dedicated his life to serving the brave men and women who have risked their lives for our freedom and our democracy. Director Cody has consistently operated one of the best VA facilities in our country. His tireless efforts have ensured that our local veterans receive the care that they deserve. I wish Director Cody and his wife Lois the very best in his well-deserved retirement.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://kakto.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced the introduction of bipartisan legislation aimed at supporting innovative remote air traffic technology produced in Central New York. Representative Katko was joined by Rep. Barbara Comstock (VA-10) and Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) in introducing the legislation. The legislation introduced by Reps. Katko, Comstock and Lipinski creates a remote air traffic control tower pilot program. Nationwide, many smaller, remote airports do not have air traffic control towers. This legislation would require further study of innovative remote tower technology to give these smaller airports the ability to obtain affordable and safe remote air traffic control. Significantly, Central New York is home to production facilities that create such technology and local contractors would be well situated to compete for these federal government contracts. “Innovative technology to help improve safety and operations at small and regional airports nationwide is produced right here in Central New York,” said Rep. John Katko. “This legislation will give our local workers – some of the foremost creators of this remote tower technology – the opportunity to compete and grow in this groundbreaking and forward-thinking field. I will continue working with Reps. Comstock and Lipinski to move this bipartisan measure forward.” “I have seen first-hand this innovative new technology at the Leesburg Executive Airport in Loudoun County,” said Rep. Barbara Comstock. “This legislation will start a pilot program that will bring this new, reliable, and safe technology to small airports across the nation while at the same time being an affordable alternative to manned air traffic control towers. I thank Reps. Katko and Lipinski in joining me in a bipartisan way to bring this new technology to the forefront of the aviation community.” Congressman Dan Lipinski stated, “I am pleased to join Reps. Katko and Comstock to reintroduce this important legislation that promotes safety-enhancing technology for airports like Lewis University/KLOT in my district. Enabling the expansion of remote air traffic control towers (ATC) is a cost-effective alternative to an expensive manned ATC tower that can improve operations at airports. This important legislation was included in the FAA reauthorization bill that the T&I committee marked up last year, but did not get signed into law. I’m hopeful this important concept will proceed this year, and look forward to working with Rep. Katko and other colleagues to move this ahead.” ###
03.03.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – A bipartisan Task Force launched by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) and NYS Assemblyman Bill Magnarelli (129th District) in 2015 today released its final, comprehensive report outlining the largest gaps in youth behavioral and mental health services in Central New York and providing recommendations to improve access to care. Congressman Katko and Assemblyman Magnarelli partnered to create the Youth Mental Health Task Force to address the lack of a sufficiently integrated system for child and adolescent mental health inpatient and outpatient services in Central New York. The Task Force was made up of local mental health and substance use disorder treatment providers, leaders from the Syracuse affiliate of the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI), grassroots health care organizations and advocates, Central New York hospitals, and local government officials, and was tasked with assessing and improving local pediatric mental health care services. “This report follows two years of intensive dialogue, data collection, and study from community advocates, healthcare providers, and hospitals on the need to strengthen access to pediatric mental health care in our community,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24). “There is a dire need to improve access to pediatric mental healthcare in Central New York, and this report outlines recommendations to help overcome the barriers we face – including improving early identification of behavioral and mental health issues among children, expanding innovative and unique treatment practices, and incentivizing healthcare providers to pursue careers in mental health care. I am committed to working with our community partners to move these reforms forward for Central New York and I will continue to advocate for policies to address this public health crisis in Congress.” Assemblyman Magnarelli stated, “I commend the Task Force in highlighting barriers to appropriate and essential needs of our youth with mental illness. However, to service the needs of patients, youth mental health services must be expanded to include more community based resources. A major factor in providing these vital services is for private insurance companies to step up and meet this challenge, as well as provide coverage for youth in our State-run facilities.” Among the recommendations provided in this report, it outlines: The importance of streamlining data collection on the prevalence of mental illness, as current statistics vary greatly and impede the ability for practitioners, researchers, and policymakers to serve individuals in need of care. The need to improve the administration of mental health services within the current healthcare system by increasing access to assertive community treatment, creating a continuum of care, and closing gaps in the patient hand-off process from one provider to another. The need to increase access to effective services and supports for primary and mental healthcare providers, including the expanded use of telepsychiatry, enabling open access to psychiatric centers, incentivizing core mental health professionals to pursue careers in mental healthcare, improving mental health education for primary care providers and the public, and increasing inpatient psychiatric services. An approach to improving effective crisis management and treatment, including the proper implementation of mental health crisis teams, increasing access to crisis residence programs, increasing the availability of planned and emergency respite services, strengthening home based crisis intervention, increasing the availability of specialized evidence-based outpatient treatment programs and increasing the number of community residences for adolescents in need of supervised care. A strategy to improve early diagnosis and treatment of behavioral and mental health problems, as well as the need to reduce stigmatization through education and leadership. Upstate Medical University President Danielle Laraque-Arena, MD, FAAP, said, “I applaud U.S. Rep. John Katko and Assemblyman William Magnarelli for bringing together local and national mental health experts in fashioning this blueprint of how to improve mental health services for our children. There is not a moment to waste in moving forward and addressing these recommendations. From issues ranging from insurance coverage to access of services, we must create a system of local mental health that breaks down barriers to care and ensures that evidence-based services are available to those in need.” "As one of the region’s major providers of behavioral health services, St. Joseph’s Health is proud to support the Youth Mental Health Task Force created by Congressman Katko and Assemblyman Magnarelli,” said Jeanette Angeloro, Director of Outpatient Behavioral Health Services at St. Joseph's. “One in four adults, approximately 57.7 million Americans, experience a mental health disorder in a given year. The first onset of mental disorders usually occurs in childhood or adolescence. Sadly, early detection and diagnosis of mental illness is possible, but often missed. It is imperative that we find a better way to integrate behavioral and mental healthcare delivery using multiple settings and providers. This report offers valuable insights into the current state of adolescent mental health in Central New York and provides preliminary steps to improve mental health programs and services for local youth.” "Oswego Health thanks U. S. Congressman John Katko and State Assemblyman William B. Magnarelli for their efforts to improve local mental health services offered to those aged 18 and younger,” said Oswego Health President and CEO Chuck Gijanto. “With the number of those requiring behavioral health services increasing, these representatives have recognized that rather than reduce services, they should be expanded and available through community-based resources. Oswego Health is addressing Oswego County’s mental health issues through its Community Service Plan and regular communication with the Office of Mental Health. We look forward to continuing to work together as we develop a comprehensive, coordinated approach to providing mental health services for our youth and their families.” “Crouse applauds Congressman Katko’s and Assemblyman Magnerelli’s collaborative efforts in improving availability and access to substance use and mental health prevention, treatment and recovery services for Central New York youths,” stated Monika Taylor, LCSW, CASAC -Director Behavioral Health for Crouse Hospital. ARISE CEO Tania Anderson said, “It has been an absolute pleasure for ARISE to be a partner in the Youth Mental Health Task Force working with so many talented and dedicated colleagues. ARISE embodies the mission of the task force within our own services and is a part of many county initiatives supporting this mission. As an Independent Living Center, ARISE has advocated for the rights of all individuals with any kind of disability since 1979. We assist people of all ages and abilities to achieve a gratifying life experience through self-determination. Therefore, we stand wholeheartedly behind the Youth Mental Health Task Force and its objective to improve mental health awareness, reduce barriers to treatment, and encourage collaborations. ARISE applauds the work of the task force members in breaking down silos and reaching across the table to address an urgent community need.” “During these complicated political times, more than ever, we need to advocate and fight for our loved ones and ourselves. The challenges facing those dealing with serious mental illness seem unsurmountable, but joining forces with so many concerned members of The Youth Mental Health Task Force has given our NAMI Syracuse members renewed hope and the ammunition to continue our mission,” stated Karen Winters Schwartz, NAMI Syracuse President. “It was refreshing to collaborate with individuals who could put their political differences aside and get something done! As president of NAMI Syracuse, I look forward to continuing working with Congressman Katko and Assemblyman Magnarelli to improve mental health care services and the lives of individuals and their families who struggle with brain disorders such as bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and severe depression.” Sheila Le Gacy, Director of the Family Support and Education Center for ACCESSCNY stated, “I am the Director of the Family Support and Education Center for ACCESSCNY. I work with families of individuals diagnosed with serious psychiatric disorders. I was encouraged by my participation in the Youth Mental Health Task Force and hopeful that our recommendations will become reality. I look forward to continuing our work with Congressman Katko and Assemblyman Magnarelli to improve the delivery of mental health services to the patients and families in our community.” The full Task Force report can be accessed here. Going forward, the Youth Mental Health Task force will work with Rep. Katko and Assemblyman Magnarelli to implement the foregoing recommendations. ###
03.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) approval of the James A. FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant license transfer from Entergy to Exelon Generation: “Today is an exciting day for Oswego County as operation of the Fitzpatrick Nuclear Power plant transfers from Entergy to Exelon. With the plant now back at full operating capacity, I will continue to do everything I can to support clean, dependable nuclear power and the hundreds of hardworking men and women working at FitzPatrick." Rep. Katko has been a steadfast champion of the nuclear industry in Central New York. In September, he urged federal regulators to act swiftly in approving the ownership transfer of FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) this morning spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize the 23rd annual Vera House White Ribbon Campaign and to urge his colleagues to stand in solidarity against domestic violence and sexual assault. Video of Representative Katko’s can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak out against domestic violence and sexual abuse. As a former federal prosecutor, I have seen firsthand how domestic violence affects people of all ages, races, religions, and socio-economic backgrounds. According to the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, nearly 20 people per minute are physically abused by an intimate partner. We must work together to end this abuse. Central New York is home to Vera House, an organization that works to prevent and respond to domestic and sexual violence. Yesterday, Vera House kicked off its 23rd Annual White Ribbon Campaign in Central New York. This campaign raises awareness for the need to put an end to domestic violence and sexual abuse. This month, thousands of Central New Yorkers will be wearing a white ribbon or a white wristband – as I am today — to stand in solidarity against domestic and sexual violence. I urge my House colleagues to join me in wearing a white ribbon to demonstrate a personal pledge to work towards preventing violence against men, women, and children. I yield back the balance of my time. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement applauding action taken yesterday by President Donald Trump instructing the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to roll back the controversial Waters of the Unites States (WOTUS) rule: “I applaud President Trump’s action to roll back the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. This burdensome regulation dramatically expands the federal government’s authority to regulate waterways – potentially allowing irrigation ditches and farm ponds to become regulated waterways. Since being elected to represent Central New York in Congress, I have heard from countless farmers across Onondaga, Wayne, Cayuga, and Oswego counties about the disastrous impact this would have on small family farms. I have long voiced my concern with this ambiguous rule and supported legislation in the House to withdraw it. While I have and will continue to work in a bipartisan manner to enact thoughtful environmental policy to keep our waters free from pollution, this burdensome and overly broad rule has the potential to harm Central New York’s vast agriculture economy. This action by the President is a welcome relief for farmers and our local economy. With Representative Katko’s support, the House passed H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act, to withdraw the rule and require the EPA and USACE to redraft a strong, bipartisan rule. Just this week, he joined a group of colleagues urging House leadership to stop the EPA and USCAE’s federal power grab through the WOTUS rule. ###
02.24.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) was today named to the House Homeland Security Committee’s bipartisan Task Force on Denying Terrorists Entry into the United States. Katko, who last Congress chaired the Committee’s Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, today applauded Chairman McCaul for continuing to focus the Committee’s efforts on preventing terrorists from gaining access to our country. The Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel released its final report in September 2015, including 50 recommendations for improving national security. Since that time, Rep. Katko has worked on the House Homeland Security Committee to act legislatively on many of these items. “Two years ago, I had the honor of chairing the bipartisan Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel. Over the course of several months, we identified 32 key findings and produced 50 recommendations to improve our national security capabilities,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24). “These threats remain as complex and dangerous as ever, and I am pleased that Chairman McCaul has announced the formation of the Task Force on Denying Terrorists Entry into the United States. This Task Force will delve into potential security gaps that allow terrorists to enter the United States. I am honored to be named as part of this Task Force and look forward to continuing our work to keep this country safe.” Chairman McCaul stated, “The threat of terrorist entry into the United States is real and we must act in close coordination with the Administration to protect Americans from those who wish us harm. I commend Congressman Katko for his commitment to this task force and the crucial task of protecting our homeland." The bipartisan panel, comprising five Republican and three Democratic Committee Members, is slated to commence work in March and will provide a final report with its findings later this year. The Task Force will examine all pathways by which extremists might infiltrate the homeland and will seek to identify gaps in U.S. government information sharing and vetting procedures. Fixing potential weaknesses in these systems will go a long way towards improving America’s defenses against terrorism. Congressman John Katko serves on the House Homeland Security Committee where he chairs the Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee. He represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.23.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – Following two anonymous bomb threats targeting the Syracuse Jewish Community Center (JCC), and over 50 JCC’s across the country, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) joined a bipartisan group of colleagues to urge the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Department of Justice (DOJ), and Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) to address these threats. In a letter sent today to DHS Secretary John Kelly, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and FBI Director James Comey, Representative Katko and his colleagues expressed grave concern with recent targeted bomb threats nationwide and highlighted the need for immediate action. The bipartisan group of lawmakers urged the DHS, DOJ, and FBI to assess the situation and advise Congress on what can be done to deter future threats, prosecute perpetrators for violations of federal law, and enable Jewish Community Centers’ nationwide to enhance security. “The recurring threats to the Jewish Community Center of Syracuse have threatened the safety and stability of our community. In Central New York – and across the country – the JCC represents a space for families and community members to come together, regardless of faith,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24). “These criminal acts are unacceptable. We must have action from our nation’s law enforcement agencies to investigate, prosecute, and prevent these dangerous threats and acts of intimidation and to protect our communities.” Marci Erlebacher, Executive Director of the Syracuse JCC applauded today’s letter, stating, “I am extremely pleased that Congressman Katko and a broad, bipartisan group of Congressmen and women from across this country have produced today’s letter to the Administration. At a time when hate crimes are affecting the JCC here in Syracuse and across the country, this support is critical. The Syracuse JCC has particularly felt the drastic impact of these crimes, with two bomb threats attacking our Center. We appreciate the Congressman’s support – and his attention to both the economic and emotional impact of these crimes.” The bipartisan letter, signed by over 150 members of Congress, notes that in January and February of 2017, 68 incidents have targeted 53 JCC’s in 26 states – including two in Central New York. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
02.16.2017	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement concerning the importance of constituent services to New York’s 24th Congressional District: “As Central New York’s representative in Congress, I have focused on being an accessible, independent voice for our community. I have met with thousands of NY-24 individuals and families, small business owners, farmers, veterans, and community organizations since being sworn in to represent our district in January 2015. During that time, my office has responded to nearly 64,000 constituent letters, emails and phone calls. I’ve hosted 6 community listening sessions and numerous telephone town hall events. With my support, NY-24 has been awarded millions of dollars in federal grants, and I’ve been able to ensure that nearly $2 million dollars owed in federal benefits were returned to Central New York residents. When my constituents contact me or my office, we listen, and we focus on getting results and representing you in the most effective way possible. “Because I enjoy and value interaction with Central New Yorkers, I’m distressed by the efforts of a small number of people to create disruptions that make such interaction more difficult. Over the course of the past month, a national political movement called ‘Indivisible’ has developed across the country. This is a group fueled by outside, progressive interests. While many involved with this movement claim to be interested in productive, public discourse with their federal representatives, the ‘Indivisible’ playbook instructs just the opposite. It suggests ‘Indivisible’ members bombard Members of Congress with phone calls and encourages disruptive behavior at townhall meetings and district events, specifically instructing individuals to ‘object as loudly and powerfully as possible,’ warns they must ‘be prepared to interrupt,’ and encourages ‘booing’ and ‘chanting.’ In several forums in other parts of the country, ‘Indivisible’ followers have dutifully followed this playbook, and have turned opportunities for constructive engagement between citizens and their representatives into unruly spectacles where constructive engagement is impossible. “Here in Central New York, multiple progressive organizations have aligned themselves with the national ‘Indivisible’ movement. I respect the right of these groups to peacefully assemble, meet, and protest. I appreciate their passion. I have spoken with numerous CNY ‘Indivisible’ members, and invited them to meet regularly with my office to ensure their concerns are heard. Having spoken with several of these individuals, I have seen that many of them are sincere, and truly want to engage in a constructive conversation. I have and will continue to make myself available to such individuals. Unfortunately, others have made very clear that their foremost goal is to cause disruptions. They have harassed members of my staff with threatening and aggressive phone calls and office visits. Some behavior has even led to security concerns. While we work with Capitol Police and local law enforcement, this behavior impedes our ability to serve. “I will not allow a national outside group to hijack service to my district or disrupt meaningful engagement with my constituents. Let me be clear: These individuals are preventing members of my staff from helping refugees, senior citizens, and veterans. By flooding my office with hundreds of calls and holding regular protests, they are only hurting their neighbors – veterans in need of VA Hospital care, seniors dependent on Social Security and Medicare, individuals facing pressing immigration matters, and local organizations seeking to apply for federal grants. “We live in a politically charged time. I work every day to heal our divide and bring our country and community together. I have a record of working across the aisle, and getting things done for my district. I will always make myself available to my constituents. All 708,000 of them. I will also represent them equally. A farmer in Wayne County or steel worker in Auburn matter just as much to me as an enraged ‘Indivisible’ member. “I have and will continue to engage in an ongoing dialogue with the constituents that I represent across Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties. But I will not allow a small, yet vocal, group dictate the terms on which I do so.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10) and Transportation and Protective Services Subcommittee Chairman John Katko (NY-24) issued the following statement in the wake of 12 current and former Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and airport employees being indicted for smuggling approximately 20 tons of cocaine through TSA security systems at Puerto Rico’s Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport between 1998 and 2016. Chairman McCaul & Subcommittee Chairman Katko: “Our aviation sector is a pivotal piece of America’s homeland security. This week’s indictment of 12 current and former TSA and airport employees accused of smuggling drugs through security screening is a stark reminder that our airport access controls and employee vetting processes need constant oversight and improvement. This Committee has made it a priority to investigate potential security challenges and insider threats within TSA. Now more than ever, we must work to secure our nation’s airports and close vulnerabilities that may put our homeland or citizens at risk.” Just last week, Rep. Katko’s Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee released a report entitled “America’s Airports: The Threat From Within,” identifying and highlighting the dangers posed by insider threats at airports. If security breaches in airports provide an opportunity for the transportation of illicit drugs, these same gaps could be ripe for terrorists to exploit and smuggle weapons or carry out plots internally. McCaul and Katko have been leaders in improving aviation security and TSA. Just last week, they introduced H.R. 876, which would reform key TSA programs. Additionally, the two introduced a bill that passed the House last Congress, H.R. 3102, the Airport Access Control Security Improvement Act of 2015, to reform TSA programs and streamline transportation security regulations. Some of these provisions became law as part of the FAA Extension Agreement in July. See the whole report with recommendations to better eliminate insider threats here. # # #
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) delivered remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday evening in honor of Syracuse University Coach Jim Boeheim, recognizing his 1000th win and distinguished career. Video of Rep. Katko’s floor speech can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Syracuse University basketball coach Jim Boeheim upon the occasion of his 1,000th win this past Saturday over the Virginia Cavaliers. Coach Boeheim has dedicated over 40 years to Syracuse University and he and his wife, Juli, are known locally for their outstanding generosity and philanthropy. While Central New York happily celebrated Coach Boeheim’s 1,000th win this past weekend, the occasion was not recognized by the NCAA due to arbitrarily harsh sanctions that followed an eight-year investigation which eliminated scholarships opportunities for students and vacated Coach Boeheim of 108* wins. While we cannot stand for impropriety in collegiate athletics, we must have transparency, consistency and fairness from the NCAA – an organization charged with promoting higher education opportunities and protecting the welfare of students. That is why I have and will continue to champion bipartisan legislation in the House to reform the NCAA and bring accountability and due process to this organization. There is no denying that Jim Boeheim was the coach for 1,000 basketball wins at Syracuse University and the NCAA should recognize that fact. Our community celebrates and congratulates Coach Boeheim upon this tremendous achievement, and it is my honor to recognize him here today. Congratulations, Coach Boeheim. Go Orange. In Congress, Representative Katko has championed the NCAA Accountability Act, bipartisan legislation aimed at providing greater protections for student athletes and schools by reforming the arbitrary enforcement processes utilized by the NCAA. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ### *Before appeal
01.31.2017	Washington, D.C. – Bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) to bolster counterterrorism efforts overwhelmingly passed the U.S. House of Representatives this afternoon. The Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act, one of several recommendations released by the bipartisan task force chaired by Rep. Katko on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel, establishes a Counterterrorism Advisory Board (CTAB) within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to coordinate and integrate departmental intelligence, activities, and policy related to counterterrorism. While this panel, which brings together top counterterrorism officials in DHS to respond to and preempt threats, has existed since 2010, Rep. Katko’s Task Force found that the CTAB had not been codified, nor had its charter kept pace with today’s evolving terrorist threats. Today’s legislation remedies that oversight and will help ensure that DHS is effectively integrating intelligence, operations, and policy to fight terrorism and quickly exchange threat information. “It is critical that we continue our efforts in Congress to combat the threat of ISIS. With ongoing counterterrorism investigations in all 50 states, we must act to strengthen the programs that address these threats,” said Rep. John Katko “Today’s legislation does just that, by ensuring that the Department of Homeland Security is acting efficiently and collaboratively to respond to the threat of global terrorism. I will continue to seek opportunities to work with both sides of the aisle in Congress to keep this country safe.” Specifically, this bipartisan legislation: Updates the CTAB Charter to better enable it to confront tomorrow’s challenges and requires the Secretary to appoint a Coordinator for Counterterrorism to oversee the board’s activities. Requires the CTAB to advise the Secretary on the issuance of terrorism alerts, ensuring that top counterterrorism and intelligence officials play a key role in delivering these critical notices to the public. Ensures continued Congressional oversight by requiring DHS to report on the status and activities of the CTAB so that we can be certain it is meeting its mandate. Rep. Katko’s bill was one of 17 national security measures to pass the House today. Chairman McCaul said, “I commend the leadership of Congressman Katko on his legislation to bolster the security of our homeland. These 17 House passed Homeland Security Committee bills are all common sense solutions to improve our border security, counterterrorism posture, transportation security, and cyber defenses, as well as enhancing first responder capabilities, and streamlining the management efficiency of the Department of Homeland Security. The sooner these critical bills pass the Senate and become law, the safer the American homeland and our people will be.” The Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel released its final report in September 2015, including 50 recommendations for improving national security. Since that time, Rep. Katko has worked on the House Homeland Security Committee to act legislatively on many of these items. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – This evening, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the bipartisan Fort Ontario Study Act, legislation introduced by U.S. Rep John Katko (NY-24) which would put Fort Ontario and Safe Haven National Refugee Shelter in Oswego on the path towards becoming a National Park. Rep. Katko was joined by Reps. Claudia Tenney (NY-22) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25) in introducing this legislation. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand has introduced the measure in the Senate. The Fort Ontario Study Act commissions a special resource study of Fort Ontario and Safe Haven in Oswego County to evaluate the site’s national significance and determine the suitability of its designation as a part of the National Park system. This study is a prerequisite for receiving National Park designation. The legislation passed the House during Rep. Katko’s first term, and was on the brink of passage in the U.S. Senate. It was the first bill that he reintroduced during the 115th Congress. “This site stands as a testament to the important role Central New York has played in our nation’s history,” stated Rep. Katko, “I’m proud to be a champion for this effort, and I’m especially grateful for the tireless work of countless Oswego County residents, advocates, and leaders who have worked to raise the profile of historic Fort Ontario and Safe Haven. With today’s passage of this bill in the House, I am hopeful that it will move quickly though the Senate and become law so that Fort Ontario and Safe Haven receive the national recognition deserved.” “I would like to thank Congressman Katko for his continued dedication to both Fort Ontario and Oswego County. I am honored to join him as an original co-sponsor of the Fort Ontario Study Act, one of the first bills I co-sponsored as a member of Congress,” said Rep. Claudia Tenney. “This important piece of legislation will begin the process of advancing this local landmark to National Park status and further develop the unique and rich history of Fort Ontario. It is vital that we work closely alongside our community to protect and preserve Fort Ontario, which we are honored to have in our backyard.” “We are grateful to Congressman Katko for his unwavering support of the efforts to advance the designation of Safe Haven and Fort Ontario to National Park Status and we look forward to working with the Congressman and his colleagues in the Senate to bring this legislation to fruition,” said Kevin Hill, President for Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter. “As the only shelter in the United States for European refugees of the Holocaust, it is imperative that we do everything in our power to keep alive the story of the Fort Ontario refugees and to preserve this important piece of history for future generations.” David Turner, Director of Oswego County Community Development, Tourism & Planning, stated, “Oswego County is blessed with a rich history of people and places that have significantly contributed to the development of our country. Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven story are two of the most unique among a long list that are related to many of our nations internal and external struggles to form and maintain a government of and for the people. We already receive visitors from around the world as a result of our many natural, historic and cultural assets, so recognition of these two by the federal government is a fitting tribute. We look forward to working closer with our partners at the National Park Service as this project moves forward. "The foundation of the ideals that the United States was created from are centered in the history of Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Museum. The sacrifices and the passion for the truths we hold true have been part of the experiences and events that have taken place here at this location. We owe it to generations to come to preserve what happened here for all Americans and the world to know the essence of the American experience. We encourage the passage of this legislation to raise the standing of Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Museum to that of a US National Park,” said Jeffrey Grimshaw, Chair of the Fort Ontario National Landmark Committee. “On behalf of the Oswego Fort Ontario refugees and their families, I want to extend our deepest thanks to Congressman Katko and the House of Representatives for their recognition of these brave people who suffered horribly under the Nazi regime during the Holocaust before they arrived to the safety of our shores and a life in America,” said Judy Coe Rapaport, Past President and Board Member for Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter. “Approving this Bill will not only honor Oswego and the State of New York but will affirm the principles of humanity which the United States and those who came before us have always stood for; which we must continue. A reason why we all came to this country, a reason why we live in and love this Country,” said Chris Mensah, Secretary to the Governing Council at UNHABITAT. Oswego County Clerk Mike Backus stated, “Fort Ontario and Save Haven are so deserving of recognition and I am thrilled to see the hard work of Rep. Katko and so many others beginning to pay off.” “Congressman Katko has consistently been a huge supporter of Fort Ontario,” said Oswego Mayor Billy Barlow. “To see all of his hard work and dedication come to fruition today is extremely exciting and a great day for all of Oswego. All those who work and volunteer at Fort Ontario and Safe Haven should be exceptionally proud of the work we’ve all accomplishment and we are thankful to have a partner in Congressman Katko to help us with this endeavor.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Following executive action this afternoon by President Trump withdrawing the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the below statement: “I have long believed that, when properly negotiated, trade can be of great benefit to this nation and to the world economy. However, I took a stand against the Trans-Pacific Partnership because it failed to prioritize the American workforce, address unfair trade practices, and prevent currency manipulation. Significantly, the TPP ignored the mistakes of past trade deals which have harmed Central New York’s manufacturing workforce and economy considerably. I applaud President Trump for today’s action and look forward to building upon this momentum in Congress to reform our tax code, reign in regulation, and help grow our economy.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a bipartisan letter sent this week, U.S. Rep. John Katko called on President-elect Donald Trump to address the significant need for funding to combat the harmful algal bloom (HAB) problem affecting Owasco Lake and communities across the country. Specifically, Rep. Katko’s letter requests funding for programs to address the severe threat of harmful algal blooms nationwide. Rep Katko and his colleagues expressed strong support for increased research into the environmental and health concerns associated with algal blooms. “Together with our state and local partners, I’ve worked to ensure we have a coordinated plan locally to maintain safe drinking water in Owasco Lake and to protect the watershed,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “But it is critical that we act to protect water infrastructure around the country for generations to come. Part of doing so means conducting further research so that we can fully understand the threats posed by the harmful algal blooms that have affected Cayuga County. I urge the President-elect to prioritize this issue and allocate the necessary funding to help maintain safe drinking water across the nation.” Since being elected to represent the 24th Congressional District, Rep. Katko has continuously engaged on this issue with state and local officials and community groups committed to monitoring and combating the harmful algal blooms affecting Owasco Lake. Earlier this week, Rep. Katko applauded the announcement that state funding will be allocated to deal with algal toxicity in Owasco Lake. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
01.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and Chris Collins (NY-27) today brought to the attention of President-Elect Donald Trump’s Transition Team the dire need to review and reconsider the International Joint Commission (IJC) Plan 2014, a measure which was pushed through by the Obama Administration in December after years of stagnancy. In today’s letter, Reps. Katko and Collins noted the grave threat the implementation of Plan 2014 will have on property owners and businesses along the southern shore of Lake Ontario, as well as the failure of the IJC and the outgoing Administration to mitigate the threat of severe flooding and damage that these constituents will face. “Despite promises by the outgoing Administration that a detailed analysis would be provided on the economic impact of Plan 2014 before a decision was made, shoreline homeowners, farmers, and business owners were not provided any information. Instead, the Administration acted on its way out the door, announcing in December that Plan 2014 would move forward in early 2017,” said Rep. John Katko. “Property owners across Wayne, Cayuga, and Oswego County will suffer millions of dollars in economic damage if Plan 2014 is put in place without mitigation action. That’s why I’ve joined together with Rep. Collins to alert the incoming Trump Administration to our longstanding concerns regarding Plan 2014, and ask for a swift review and reversal of these midnight actions taken by the outgoing Administration. I will continue to seek answers on this disastrous measure.” Rep. Chris Collins said, “Time after time, Representative Katko and I were promised by the White House Council on Environmental Equality and the State Department that we would be kept informed with the most accurate and up to date information. We were purposely kept in the dark so that the Obama Administration could sneak this plan through. The IJC itself has said that the implementation of this plan will cause millions of dollars in damages to our shoreline property owners. We need to protect our communities, residents, and businesses, which is why I have joined with Rep. Katko in sending this letter to the new administration. It is imperative that the IJC knows how detrimental this plan is to our districts.” The IJC, in conjunction with the U.S. State Department and the White House Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), has been negotiating Plan 2014 for a number of years. During this time, Reps. Katko and Collins have worked to raise concerns over the IJC’s Plan 2014 with officials at all levels of government. ###
01.17.2017	SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding this afternoon's announcement to upgrade drinking water systems in Auburn and Owasco: “I'm glad to hear that additional money will be allocated to deal with algal toxicity in Owasco Lake. This much-needed funding will help maintain safe drinking water for thousands of Central New Yorkers. I have repeatedly raised this issue with state officials, and I'm glad to see them responding to the needs of Cayuga County citizens. I will continue to stay engaged on this vital issue. "Owasco Lake's troubles, along with a host of other examples around the country, point to the need to improve our water infrastructure. I have advocated for robust funding for the primary federal grant programs that support water infrastructure, and will continue to pursue every opportunity to ensure access to clean water for our region, and the nation as a whole." Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Following today’s vote in the U.S. House of Representatives to begin the process to repeal the Affordable Care Act, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement on his decision to vote against the measure: “Since I began running for Congress, I have been very clear on my stance towards Obamacare: I have always maintained that it should either be radically restructured or replaced. Obamacare is a deeply-flawed law that has led to rising premiums and fewer options for consumers. If left unreformed, it will collapse in the coming years. However, I believe before this flawed law is repealed, a viable plan must be ready to replace it in order to ensure that millions of Americans do not lose coverage overnight. “Today, the House voted to begin the process of repeal; however, because there has been no clear plan laid out to replace Obamacare, I voted no. I completely agree with President-elect Trump that repeal and replacement should occur at the same time. This is a view that is shared by a clear majority of Americans. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to come up with a clear, viable, and effective replacement plan. When that happens, hopefully in the coming weeks, I will happily join my party in repealing Obamacare.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today issued the below statement following Governor Cuomo’s announcement that he has directed the NYS Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) to employ an independent firm to fully study a wider range of options for replacing Interstate 81: “I applaud Governor Cuomo for moving forward to conduct studies on additional options for the I-81 rebuild in Syracuse. This project will impact our regional transportation infrastructure for generations to come, and it is critical that all options are carefully studied and that input is considered from all around our community. “I have repeatedly urged a comprehensive study of options for the I-81 rebuild and increased public participation in this process. Most recently, I joined many community members, local legislators, civic groups and business owners in calling for more specific information from NYSDOT on how this rebuild will impact not only the City of Syracuse, but many of the surrounding towns and villages. “Today’s decision to study five options – including a tunnel option – reflects the wishes of our community, and offers a new opportunity to get closer to a regional consensus for the final design. I look forward to reviewing the final study, and will continue to engage in a public discourse on the future of Interstate 81 as we determine which option is best for all of Central New York.” Rep. Katko has long advocated for an informed, community-based decision on the I-81 rebuild project. Following a December 2016 community forum, Rep. Katko called on NYSDOT to answer key questions raised by the community in that forum. While NYSDOT is tasked with making a final determination on how to replace the aging I-81 viaduct, federal funds will provide for 80% of the project. In Congress, Rep. Katko sits on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Last year, as part of a long-term highway bill that he helped negotiate, Interstate 81 was designated a high priority corridor. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Following yesterday’s announcement that Indian Point Nuclear Plant will close, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the below statement: “Yesterday’s announcement regarding the closure of the Indian Point Nuclear Plant is just the latest sign of the immense challenges facing the American nuclear energy industry. Nuclear energy provides dependable, abundant, safe, carbon-free electricity, and is a vitally important part of the clean energy mix not only in New York, but around the country. While I understand and share the desire to ensure the safe production of energy, I believe American nuclear energy passes that test, and I will continue to support policies that take account of nuclear energy’s ability to provide consistent, clean energy that’s produced in New York.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Following this morning’s ceremony in which the U.S. Secretary of the Interior officially designated the Harriet Tubman home in Auburn as a National Historic Park, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement: “I am thrilled that the Harriet Tubman home in Auburn has formally been established as a National Historic Park, and I was honored to be in attendance at this morning’s ceremony in Washington. “After years of hard work by local advocates, community members in Auburn, and members of the AME Zion Church, this project is finally a reality. Auburn is a place that Harriet Tubman once called home, and our community is proud to preserve and highlight her extraordinary legacy and life’s work. “With the official designation of this site as a National Historic Park, Harriet Tubman’s home will now become a valuable public resource for Central New Yorkers and tourists to learn about her heroic contributions to our nation. “The creation of a National Historic Park at the Tubman Home in Auburn is an incredible tribute to Harriet Tubman’s remarkable legacy.” Since taking office, Representative Katko has worked closely with local advocates and the National Parks Service to ensure a smooth transition in the designation of the Harriet Tubman Home in Auburn a national park. During the 114th Congress, Rep. Katko and Rep. Elijah Cummings (MD-7) introduced the bipartisan Harriet Tubman Tribute Act, which would require the Secretary of the Treasury to place Harriet Tubman’s likeness on a Federal Reserve Note by 2017. It was later announced that Harriet Tubman will appear on the $20 bill. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
01.06.2017	Syracuse, New York – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding the shooting at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport: “My thoughts and prayers are with all of those affected by the horrific and senseless shooting at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport in Florida today. I am incredibly thankful for the actions of the law enforcement officers and other first responders who put their own lives on the line to assist those in harm’s way. “While the investigation into this incident is ongoing, today’s events are a tragic reminder of the dire need to address gaps in security at airports nationwide. As Chair of the House Homeland Security Transportation Security Subcommittee, I have sought to address many of the threats posed in unsecure areas of airports. Last Congress, I authored the Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act, a bipartisan measure that was signed into law, which requires enhanced coordination amongst first responders, law enforcement, and airport officials during active shooter situations. Still, it is clear there is much more we can do. I will continue to closely monitor the details of today’s shooting, and going forward, we will continue our efforts to address these gaps in airport security nationwide and to keep the traveling public safe.” Congressman John Katko serves on the House Homeland Security Committee where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga,Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the first day of the 115th Congress, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) announced that he has reintroduced legislation that he authored and passed through the House during his first term in office, the Fort Ontario Study Act. U.S. Reps. Claudia Tenney (NY-22) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25) joined Representative Katko as original cosponsors of the bill. The Fort Ontario Study Act commissions a special resource study of Fort Ontario and Safe Haven in Oswego County to evaluate the site’s national significance and determine the suitability of its designation as a part of the National Park system. This study is a prerequisite for receiving National Park designation. “Over the past two years, I’ve worked together with local advocates, leaders, and community members in Oswego County to raise the profile of historic Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter,” said Rep. John Katko (NY-24). “Preserving this site as a National Park will encourage tourism, bolster our local economy, and protect the rich history of Oswego County. I’m proud to once again introduce this measure and am determined to fight to make it law.” "For those of us involved with Safe Haven and Fort Ontario becoming a National Park, we would like to thank Congressman Katko for his advocacy and efforts in this process. As there are less than 100 former refugees left, it is imperative that the bill go forward,” said Judy Coe Rapaport, Advisory Board Member & Past President of Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Center. Over the course of the past two years, individuals from across Oswego County have worked to organize local support for the designation of the 260-year-old Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum as a National Park. As a part of these efforts, Rep. Katko has visited the Fort on several occasions, met individually with a cross-section of his constituents in the area surrounding the Fort, and took part in an information and rally event to raise community awareness for this project. In 2016, Representative Katko announced that the National Park Service (NPS) granted his request to begin a reconnaissance study to assess the best way to preserve the site. The study will begin in 2017. Rep. Katko has focused extensively on growing Central New York’s tourism-based economy, and, in addition to introducing this legislation, has worked with community members and stakeholders at the Tubman Home in Auburn, which is well on its way to becoming a National Park. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.30.2016	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the below statement in response to the Obama administration’s announcement of sanctions against Russia: “President Obama's approach towards Russia has failed to a large degree, and left us and the world vulnerable to its increasingly aggressive actions. While President Obama's response is important, much more should have been done to bolster our cyber defenses and prevent Russian aggression globally. “I look forward to reviewing the details of the Administration's action to sanction Russia. It is important that our response is effective and consistent. It is also critical that we ensure coordination between the Obama administration and the incoming President so U.S. policy is clear. “When I return to Washington, my focus will be to improve our cyber defenses, combat global threats and develop a strategic and comprehensive policy to Russian relations.” Congressman John Katko serves on the House Homeland Security Committee where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga,Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.20.2016	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding yesterday’s attack in Berlin and assassination of the Russian Ambassador to Turkey: “My thoughts and prayers are with all of those affected by both the Christmas market attack in Berlin and the assassination of the Russian ambassador to Turkey. While details are still emerging on both of these tragic incidents, each is a horrific reminder that we must remain ever vigilant against acts of violence and terrorism. I will continue my work on Homeland Security this next term to fight against these barbarous acts of terrorism.” Congressman John Katko serves on the House Homeland Security Committee where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
12.16.2016	SYRACUSE, NEW YORK - Following a meeting held by a bipartisan group of New York State legislators from the Central New York area Wednesday night at Henninger High School in Syracuse, in which many pointed questionswere asked of the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT), U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today called on NYSDOT to provide more specific details relating to the scoping process. In a letter to NYSDOT Commissioner Matt Driscoll, Rep. Katko requested clarification on a number of community concerns relating to the remaining rebuild options. Representative Katko, who has long stated that he plans to support whichever option for the I-81 rebuild that the community determines is best, joined over 200 Central New York residents Wednesday night to hear more about the project, the options still available from NYSDOT, and the concerns of local and state elected officials and members of the community. “I applaud the Central New York delegation of the New York State Legislature for coming together in a bipartisan manner to ensure that our community’s concerns are heard on the Interstate 81 rebuild,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “This meeting was an important opportunity for NYSDOT to clarify for our community a number of concerns regarding the scoping process. However, as I listened to community members, business owners, and town supervisors from across Central New York, I am troubled that many of my constituents did not feel their concerns had been addressed by NYSDOT in this, or other forums.” In his letter, Rep. Katko asks NYSDOT to provide greater detail on the following items: 1. Whether NYSDOT has considered the potentially harmful and costly impact of increased heavy truck traffic on non-interstate roads. 2. Clarification as to why certain options involving the building of an underground tunnel were eliminated based on cost, since no budget range has yet been made public. 3. Why a tunnel, or a potential tunnel/boulevard hybrid option, has not been given the same amount of consideration as viaduct rebuild and boulevard option for a final, comprehensive analysis. 4. Whether NYSDOT has considered public concerns expressed in past Auburn, Skaneateles, Salina, and Dewitt public meetings relating to the “Community Grid” alternative. While NYSDOT is tasked with making a final determination on how to replace the aging I-81 viaduct, federal funds will provide for 80% of the project. In Congress, Rep. Katko sits on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Last year, as part of a long-term highway bill that he helped negotiate, Interstate 81 was designated a high priority corridor. Rep. Katko concluded his letter by noting the critical benefits or consequences of this project for decades to come, and requestedthat the concerns of residents throughout the region be given full consideration, stating, “I have not advocated for one particular option to rebuild or upgrade Interstate 81. However, I believe that it is important that members of the community have access to all of the necessary information regarding the scoping process and potential rebuild options.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the below statement following today’s approval of Plan 2014: “I am incredibly disappointed with today’s announcement that Plan 2014 will move forward. This decision by the Administration, made on its way out the door, will have a devastating impact on the shoreline, homes, businesses, and vast agriculture economies of Wayne, Cayuga, and Oswego Counties. While I certainly support preserving our region’s natural resources and maintaining the health of Lake Ontario, I have long called for more thorough, objective research into the overwhelming consequences of Plan 2014 for our community and our local economy. Despite the last-ditch actions taken by the Administration today, I will continue to work with all levels of government – including the incoming Administration – as well as stakeholders and community members to pursue every possible course to ensure that our shoreline is protected and to mitigate the impact of this decision.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This morning, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) delivered remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor the tremendous legacy of Ruth Colvin, a pioneer in the adult literacy movement, who is celebrating her 100th birthday this month. Video of Rep. Katko’s remarks can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the tremendous legacy of Ruth Johnson Colvin, a pioneer in the adult literacy movement from my district who is celebrating her 100th birthday this month. Known as the “mother of the adult literacy movement,” Ruth Colvin has had an immeasurable impact on our community and on our nation. In the 1960’s, upon discovering that 11,000 people in her hometown of Syracuse, New York could not read, Ruth Colvin launched the Literacy Volunteers of America. That organization, now known as ProLiteracy, is still based in Syracuse today. Ruth Colvin has dedicated her entire life to teaching, assisting, and empowering adult learners. She has taught hundreds of people to read, trained literacy tutors in 26 countries, and developed and published effective programs to teach basic literacy and English as a second language. Because of her efforts, hundreds of thousands of adults have learned to read both locally in Central New York and around the globe. Over more than four decades, Ruth Colvin has published nine books, visited or worked in more than 60 countries, and received nine honorary doctorates. She was awarded the President’s Volunteer Action Award from President Ronald Reagan, received the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President George W. Bush and was inducted into the National Women’s Hall of Fame. Ruth Colvin has given so many the gift of literacy. On December 16th of this year, she will turn 100 years old. Please join me in honoring her tremendous life’s work and her legacy as we celebrate this milestone occasion. Happy Birthday, Ruth. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visithttps://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today applauded final House passage of the annual National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), a bicameral, bipartisan package that supports American troops and our national defense. Significantly, the measure includes the text of legislation Representative Katko authored to bolster our country’s strategy to combat terrorist travel. It also contains provisions to support the 174th Attack Wing at Hancock Field and Central New York’s sizeable defense industry. Rep. Katko’s bill, the National Strategy to Combat Terrorist Travel Act, which previously passed the House, is product the bipartisan Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel, which he chaired. It requires that the Administration proffer a substantive strategy to combat the evolving threats posed by extremists fighting overseas and to prevent such terrorists from entering our country undetected. “In light of the ever-evolving threats to our nation’s security, it is critical that our military has the modern resources and support necessary to provide for the safety of our country,” said Rep. John Katko. “It is also vital that our country articulate a plan to combat the growing threat of foreign fighter travel, and I am pleased that provisions I authored to helpprevent the spread of global terrorism have been included in this comprehensive package.” Representative Katko advocated for, and today highlighted the importance of, the following items in the 2017 NDAA which will be of benefit of Central New York, including: Preventing the Department of Defense from Recouping National Guard bonuses paid tothousands of Army and Air National Guard soldiers, including veterans who served at Hancock Field Air National Guard Base. Authorization of the Ohio-class Replacement Submarine Program for the U.S. Navy, for which parts are produced in Central New York. Funding for the U.S. Navy's Littoral Combat Ship (LCS), for which parts are produced in Central New York. “This package supports the men and women who have served at 174th Attack Wing at Hancock Field, and will help grow and support Central New York’s broad landscape of defense industries and the thousands of Central New Yorkers that they employ,” concluded Rep. Katko. The measure also temporarily discontinues defense-widepersonnel reductions, provides troops with the largest pay raise they’ve seen in six years, prohibits transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to American soil, reforms the acquisition process to spend taxpayer dollars more wisely, and increases protections against sexual assault. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today applauded House passage of the bipartisan, bicameral 21st Century Cures Act. The patient-centered measure, which Rep. Katko co-sponsored in the House, provides $4.8 billion in funding for the NIH to invest in medical research and development of cures and treatments for chronic diseases, improves and strengthen Medicare, and prioritizes mental health. Significantly for Central New York, the legislation authorizes $1 billion over two years in state block grants to combat the prescription drug and heroin epidemic. Funding will go towards prevention, treatment, prescription drug monitoring programming and opioid treatment programs. “I support this monumental legislation for many reasons – it will help to develop cures for the chronic diseases that affect so many in our community, reform our nation’s broken mental health system, and equip researchers with the resources that they need to deliver new treatments,” said Rep. John Katko. “I am incredibly pleased that this comprehensive package includes $1 billion to fight the opioid and heroin epidemic plaguing families in our community and across the country." The 21st Century Cures Act was developed after years of input from patients and their loved ones, researchers, caregivers, advocates, and innovators. Right now, it takes 15 years to bring new treatments and medicines to the market and costs billions of dollars. This legislation will accelerate research and remove barriers by incentivizing collaboration and incorporating patient perspective into drug development and regulatory review. Specifically, this legislation: Provides the NIH with $4.8 billion in new funding to help drive research and development, bolster Vice President Biden’s “Cancer Moonshot” program, and invest in the BRAIN initiative to improve understanding of diseases like Alzheimer’s. Marks the most meaningful reform to mental healthcare in over a decade, improving access to mental healthcare for children, enhancing communication among providers, families and patients, and strengthening the nation’s mental health workforce. This provision is based largely on the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, co-sponsored by Rep. Katko and which passed the House earlier this year. Provides the FDA with $500 million for regulatory modernization, giving the agency the ability to recruit and retain doctors and scientists while streamlining and accelerating clinical trials, cutting-edge cures and life-improving therapies. · Prioritizes patient-centered medicine, ensuring patients receive personalized treatment and are able to give feedback during drug development. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the below statement following passage in the House and Senate of S. 1808, the Northern Border Security Review Act, legislation that Rep. Katko introduced and passed through the U.S. House of Representatives which requires the Department of Homeland Security identify and assess threats to our nation’s northern border in order to adequately confront these threats. “I applaud the Senate for taking action on this critical legislation to help secure our northern border. For twenty years, I worked as a federal prosecutor on both our northern border in New York and on our Southern border in El Paso, Texas. While much attention is justifiably focused on our southern border, our northern border faces unique threats – including drug and human trafficking, criminal activity, and potential acts of terrorism, with several major terrorist attacks having been uncovered and disrupted along the northern border in recent years. Our local Customs and Border Protection officers and Border Control agents work hard to combat these threats every day, and it is imperative that we help support their efforts by assessing, monitoring, and responding to the vulnerabilities on our nation’s northern border. Tough border security is vital to ensuring the safety of Upstate New York and I look forward to the President taking swift action to sign this measure into law.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.17.2016	Syracuse, New York – Following news today that the state had unanimously approved the sale of FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the below statement: “Today’s news that New York regulators have unanimously approved the sale of FitzPatrick Nuclear Power plant is an excellent step forward for the hardworking men and women who work at the plant, their families, and the entire Oswego County community. I’m proud to have worked with all parties involved to stand up for Oswego County’s nuclear energy industry and to help keep FitzPatrick open. I now look forward to swift action by federal regulators to ensure that this clean, reliable nuclear power plant remains operational.” Representative Katko previously called on regulators to move forward as quickly and fairly as possible with consideration of Entergy and Exelon’s joint transfer application for the FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
10.06.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – Two weeks after Rep. Katko called on federal regulators to move forward as quickly and fairly as possible with consideration of Entergy and Exelon’s joint transfer application for the FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission this week announced its acceptance of the application, and intention to move forward with consideration. Rep. Katko made the following statement after this news: “I’m happy to see that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has accepted the joint application for the transfer of the FitzPatrick plant from Entergy to Exelon, and will now proceed with consideration of the application. Timely and fair consideration of this transfer by state and federal regulators is a requirement for it to go forward, and I’m pleased to see a step taken in that direction. FitzPatrick’s importance as an energy generator, and economic engine in Oswego can’t be overstated.” Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
09.27.2016	Washington, D.C. – In a vote yesterday evening, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan measure, the Dangerous Synthetic Drug Control Act, which includes the text of legislation authored by Representative Katko and introduced earlier this month. The measure passed the House 158-101 and addresses the recent surge in synthetic drug use. It specifically bans 22 synthetic chemicals used to make drugs like “Spice” and “K2,” and outlaws three variants of fentanyl, which is among the most potent and dangerous drugs on the market today. “It is far past time that we take action to stop the flow of dangerous synthetic substances on our streets,” said Rep. John Katko. “Syracuse has been devastated by this epidemic, and increased synthetics use has placed a major strain on our local law enforcement and first responders. I’m proud to work alongside our local advocates, law enforcement, and healthcare providers in this fight — and this bipartisan effort is a step forward in combating the scourge of synthetic drugs.” Synthetic drug use has hit Central New York particularly hard, with Syracuse recently becoming known as ‘Spike Nation.’ To address this crisis, Representative Katko has worked with local advocates, healthcare providers, and law enforcement to craft meaningful reform. As part of this effort, Rep. Katko has partnered with Teresa Woolson, an Oswego County mother who lost her son Victor to synthetic drugs in 2012. Since that time, Teresa has dedicated countless hours through the VOW Foundation, named in Victor’s honor, to combat this public health epidemic. Teresa Woolson today applauded Rep. Kakto’s efforts, stating, “This legislation will help with the synthetic drug crisis. I am so thankful to Congressman Katko for his hard work and determination to continue to bring bipartisan legislation on this matter to the House. I’m optimistic that with people like John Katko in Congress we will stop the growing trend of deadly synthetic drugs and help save more lives.” Rep. Katko and Onondaga County District Attorney William J. Fitzpatrick, both critically aware of this troubling epidemic, have committed to partnering on a state and federal level to address the problem in both in a legislative and prosecutorial manner. “Synthetic drugs are nothing more then lethal poisons,” said Onondaga County District Attorney William J. Fitzpatrick. "Since they've hit the streets, they have caused more death, tragedy and destruction then any public health epidemic in recent memory. Unfortunately the traffickers of synthetic drugs have been able to stay one step ahead of law enforcement. Fortunately, John Katko's experience as a federal prosecutor has given him keen insight into these issues. This legislation will make it easier to arrest and prosecute dealers, traffickers and manufacturers of synthetic drugs. It is a desperately needed weapon to help us in our battle to eradicate this poison from our communities." “Being on the front lines of the synthetic and opioid drug epidemic in Central New York, Crouse Health applauds the effort and support of Congressman Katko and his colleagues in the House on the passage of this important bipartisan legislation. This is an uphill battle that we are all waging and we need more wins like this,” said Monika Taylor, Director of Chemical Dependency Treatment Services for Crouse Hospital. Beth Hurny, Executive Director of the Prevention Network stated, “Limiting access and availability to alcohol and other drugs is a prevention priority strongly supported by community law enforcement. The Dangerous Synthetic Drug Control Act provides the legislative support imperative to assist law enforcement in reducing the availability of synthetic poisons. Decreased availability of these substances directly correlates to reduced access to them. I applaud Congressmen Katko and Cicciline for taking a significant stand against the manufacturing and distribution of these deadly compounds that claim lives in this community everyday!” Currently, it is difficult to regulate and prosecute synthetic drug use and distribution. While Congress took action in 2012 to outlaw several synthetic drugs, manufacturers and distributors of these substances are able to slightly alter the chemical structure of drugs to circumvent this law and avoid law enforcement scrutiny and prosecution. Current laws are not keeping up with the producers of these poisonous substances, and consequently, substances designed to mimic the effects of LSD, Ecstasy, cocaine, marijuana, and other hard drugs are sold openly at convenience stores, gas stations, head shops and other outlets, and giving some users the assumption that they are not as dangerous as other, illegal substances. Rep. Katko’s legislation addresses this difficulty by adding 22 synthetic substances, including dangerous forms of fentanyl, to Schedule I of Controlled Substances Act. Doing so will provide law enforcement and prosecutors a greater ability to crack down on synthetic drug traffickers, and reduce the availability of legal synthetic substances to manufacturers of these drugs. Senators Grassley and Schumer have introduced the bipartisan measure in the Senate. A former federal prosecutor, Representative Katko has made it a priority to curb the use of synthetic drugs in Central New York, working alongside local advocates and championing his Protecting Our Youth from Dangerous Drugs Act, legislation he previously introduced to make it easier for local law enforcement to prosecute the sale and distribution of synthetic substances. Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.20.2016	Syracuse, New York – In letters sent to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) urged the federal decisionmakers to review the pending agreement to transfer ownership and management of the James A. FitzPatrick Nuclear Plant in Scriba from Entergy Corp. to Exelon. Before the agreement may be finalized, it must first be approved by both federal commissions. In his letter, Katko noted that a prompt transfer of ownership is critical to keeping the FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant open and operating. Representative Katko stated, “I join FitzPatrick employees, their families, and community leaders throughout Oswego County and Central New York in celebrating the news that FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant will remain open – yet, approval by these federal decisionmakers is the final hurdle in ensuring that the plant remains operational. I’ve urged both the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to act as quickly as practicable in their review of this proposal, and I’m hopeful that they will act swiftly and fairly in doing so. Final approval of this agreement will ensure that that the hundreds of skilled, well-paying jobs remain stable and that FitzPatrick’s reliable, emissions-free generating capacity is maintained.” Since the announcement earlier this year that the FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant was at risk of closing, Representative Katko has worked with all parties involved, urging the companies, as well as state and local leaders to work towards a solution to keep the plant open. In his letters, Katko outlines the importance of the FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant to the Central New York region, not only in terms of ensuring economic stability, but also as a dependable source of emissions-free energy and a key part of New York’s plan to dramatically increase the emissions-free portion of the state’s energy mix. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and David Cicciline (RI-1) today announced bipartisan legislation that they have introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives to ban dangerous synthetic substances. The Dangerous Synthetic Drug Control Act addresses the recent surge in synthetic drug use by specifically banning 22 syntheticchemicals, including 11 used to create synthetic marijuana. “Sadly, Syracuse has become known ‘Spike Nation,’ suffering from a surge in abuse of synthetic drugs,” said Representative Katko. “This scourge has hit Central New York families hard – like Teresa Woolson from Oswego, who lost her son Victor to synthetic drugs in 2012. Teresa has worked tirelessly to combat this public health epidemic. For Teresa and the many advocates that fight beside her in Central New York, I’m proud to introduce bipartisan legislation that takes aim at this threat. The bill I’ve introduced will provide support to our local law enforcement in removing these dangerous substances from our streets and will make it more difficult for manufacturers to produce this poison. I’m grateful for the bipartisan support of Rep. Cicilline, and look forward to working together to ensure that this bill moves forward in the House.” Teresa Woolson stated, “I continue to applaud efforts by Congressman Katko to help save lives from synthetic drugs. The death rate continues to climb and this legislation will help prosecute those involved with distributing deadly poisons through our communities.” Onondaga County District Attorney William J. Fitzpatrick said, “"Synthetic drugs are nothing more then lethal poisons. Since they've hit the streets, they have caused more death, tragedy and destruction then any public health epidemic in recent memory. Unfortunately the traffickers of synthetic drugs have been able to stay one step ahead of law enforcement. Fortunately, John Katko's experience as a federal prosecutor has given him keen insight into these issues. This legislation will make it easier to arrest and prosecute dealers, traffickers and manufacturers of synthetic drugs. It is a desperately needed weapon to help us in our battle to eradicate this poison from our communities." Currently, it is difficult to regulate and prosecute synthetic drug use and distribution. While Congress took action in 2012 to outlaw several synthetic drugs, manufacturers and distributors of these substances are able to slightly alter the chemical structure of drugs to circumvent this law and avoid law enforcement scrutiny and prosecution. Current laws are not keeping up with the producers of these poisonous substances, and consequently, substances designed to mimic the effects of LSD, Ecstasy, cocaine, marijuana, and other hard drugs are sold openly at convenience stores, gas stations, head shops and other outlets, and giving some users the assumption that they are not as dangerous as other, illegal substances. The Dangerous Synthetic Drug Control Act of 2016addresses this difficulty by adding 22 synthetic substances, including dangerous forms of fentanyl, to Schedule I of Controlled Substances Act. Doing so will provide law enforcement and prosecutors a greater ability to crack down on synthetic drug traffickers, and reduce the availability of legal synthetic substances to manufacturers of these drugs. Senators Grassley and Schumer have introduced the bipartisan measure in the Senate. “Easy access to dangerous synthetic drugs poses an immediate threat to the health and well-being of men, women, and children across our country,” said Rep. Cicilline. “This legislation makes it easier for authorities to crack down on these dangerous substances and keep families safe. I’m pleased to be joining Congressman Katko today and working across the aisle to get this done.” As a former federal prosecutor, Representative Katko has made it a priority to curb the use of synthetic drugs in Central New York, working alongside local advocates and championing his Protecting Our Youth from Dangerous Drugs Act, legislation he previously introduced to make it easier for local law enforcement to prosecute the sale and distribution of synthetic substances. Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation Security Subcommittee, today applauded U.S. Sens. Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ) for introducing the Cuban Airport Security Act in the U.S. Senate. Katko stated, “I welcome the support of Senators Rubio and Menendez on the issue of the safety and security of Americans traveling to Cuba. The Obama Administration’s rush to open regularly scheduled commercial air service between the United States and Cuba without taking proper precautions is negligent and I am optimistic that the House and Senate will move quickly on legislation to help address safety and security deficiencies. Senator Rubio has been a leader on issues surrounding the U.S. relationship with Cuba, and I could not ask for a better partner in the Senate to work with on this bill.” Katko introduced the bipartisan Cuban Airport Security Act in the House in July. The legislation would effectively pause all commercial air travel between the United States and Cuba until the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) certifies that Cuban airports have the appropriate security measures in place to protect American travelers. Earlier this year, Representative Katko and a bipartisan group of members of the House Homeland Security Committee were denied visas for a scheduled visit to examine the security measures at Cuban airports. The trip was necessitated after Obama Administration officials refused to answer questions from Members of Congress at a House Homeland Security Committee Transportation Security Subcommittee hearing chaired by Representative Katko on the national security concerns associated with resuming commercial air service to Cuba. Commercial air travel to Cuba resumed last week, despite continued concerns that TSA has not thoroughly reviewed security procedures at Cuban airports with flights bound for the U.S. In a statement released earlier today, Sen. Rubio said, “With so many serious security threats around the world, it is irresponsible to leave key aspects of our airport security in the hands of the anti-American, repressive regime in Cuba. President Obama’s legacy should not come before the safety of the American people. It’s extremely concerning that airlines operating in Cuba are not allowed to hire their own workers, and airport staff are employees of the Cuban government. This increases the likelihood that someone on the inside seeking to harm the United States could gain access to sensitive flight data and controls. I have opposed commercial flight service to Cuba because it will only empower and enrich the regime, not the Cuban people. Now that President Obama is proceeding unilaterally, we cannot allow our security to be compromised. All commercial flights between the United States and Cuba should be put on hold until we can close these sprawling loopholes, conduct a full audit to make sure personnel is being properly vetted, and verify these flights to and from airports in Cuba include the type of robust security measures needed to keep Americans safe.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – This evening, H.R. 4204, the Fort Ontario Study Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) to advance the designation of Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum in Oswego to National Park status, unanimously passed the U.S House of Representatives. U.S. Reps. Richard Hanna (NY-22) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25) joined Representative Katko as cosponsors of the bill. The legislation commissions a special resource study of Fort Ontario to evaluate the site’s national significance and determine the suitability of its designation as a part of the National Park system. This study is a prerequisite for receiving National Park designation. Following the bill’s passage, Representative Katko stated, “Fort Ontario is a historic gem in our community. The Fort has been involved in nearly every major American war from the French and Indian War to World War II. What’s more, it served as the nation’s only Emergency Refugee Camp, providing shelter to over 980 refugees fleeing the Holocaust. Today, Fort Ontario and Safe Haven draw visitors from across the country. Like so many in our community, I am incredibly proud to have this piece of history in our backyard, and I’m grateful for the local champions who have worked tirelessly to preserve the site. I’m honored to have this bill pass the House and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take up the bill that Senator Gillibrand has introduced so that we can get this important, bipartisan measure to the President’s desk.” "I am pleased that the House has acted to authorize a study to determine if Fort Ontario could be added to our National Parks System," U.S. Rep. Richard Hanna said. "It is important to recognize our historical assets and to do so in a way that promotes and encourages tourism for our region. I look forward to the results of this comprehensive study to determine how to best preserve and protect Fort Ontario.” “I would like to thank Congressman Katko for the extraordinary work that was put into making this bill a reality. The impact of this bill in the City of Oswego, Oswego County, and Central New York will be historical,” said Jeffrey Grimshaw, on behalf of the Fort Ontario National Landmark Committee. “The honor that this will bring to the long list of souls pre-dating the founding of the United States is immeasurable. The recognition of the value the refugee population contributed to the development of Oswego will be memorialized for generations to come. This is all in addition to the tremendous economic impact that is promised with the sharing of our story with the entire world and placing Oswego on a list of places that must be experienced to understand the fabric of the American story.” Kevin Hill, President for Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter stated, “From 1944 – 1946, nearly 1,000 refugees of World War II were housed at Fort Ontario in Oswego, New York as ‘guests’ of President Roosevelt. Their story is one that is unique to Oswego and unique within the context of the United States and World War II. The refugees were offered a safe haven from the atrocities of the Holocaust and their story must not be forgotten. Passage of Congressman Katko’s bill in the House brings us one step closer to preserving andprotecting this important historic site and the story of the Fort Ontario refugees for generations.” “There are less than 50 former refugees left alive to tell the stories of their escape from war torn Europe to arrive at the only shelter in America for victims of the Holocaust. What better legacy for their families than for the people of the world to learn of those stories by Fort Ontario becoming a National Park,” stated Judy Rappaport, Past President for Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter. “Congressman Katko has been a huge supporter of Fort Ontario even before his time in office,” said City of Oswego Mayor Billy Barlow. “To see all of his hard work and dedication come to fruition today is extremely exciting and a great day for all of Oswego. All those who work and volunteer at Fort Ontario should be exceptionally proud of the work we’ve all accomplishment and we are thankful to have a partner in Congressman Katko to help us with thisendeavor.” “When John Katko first toured Oswego as a candidate, he said to me, ‘wouldn’t it be great if Fort Ontario became a National Landmark?’ Less than two years later, I am overjoyed that Rep. John Katko followed through on his word and delivered for Oswego. I applaud him for supporting our nation’s history and emphasizing this precious gem we hold so dear in Oswego County,” said Oswego County Clerk Mike Backus. Over the course of the past year, individuals from across Oswego County have worked to organize local support for the designation of the 260-year-old Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum as a National Park. As a part of these efforts, Rep. Katko has visited the Fort on several occasions, met individually with a cross-section of his constituents in the area surrounding the Fort, and took part in an information and rally event to raise community awareness for this project. In addition to the swift passage of the bill through the House, this summer, Representative Katko announced that the National Park Service (NPS) granted his request tobegin a reconnaissance study to assess the best way to preserve the site. The study will begin in 2017. Katko has focused extensively on growing Central New York’s tourism-based economy, and, in addition to introducing this legislation, has worked with community members and stakeholders at the Tubman Home in Auburn, which is well on its way to becoming a National Park. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
08.31.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – Today, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement on the first commercial flight departure from the U.S. to Cuba: “In spite of concerns about the security of Cuban airports, the Obama Administration continues to push political goals at the expense of the safety and security of the traveling public by moving forward with commercial flights between Cuba and the U.S. This premature, and ill-advised opening represents a direct threat to our national security. “Cuba has long been tied to criminal and terrorist enterprises. The discovery of forged Cuban passports, used by Afghans and manufactured by Iranians, illustrates the dire need for additional, strictly enforced security measures before the resumption of commercial air travel. “Recent tragedies have shown us that insider threats to aviation are real – and it is clear that the U.S. government currently lacks sufficient information to ensure that Cuban airports are not vulnerable to the external and internal threats that prevail in today’s sensitive security environment. Nor has sufficient information been provided to U.S. air carriers about the ideological sentiments, criminal history, or foreign ties of Cuban airport workers. Further, the airlines will not be permitted to hire their own workers and all airport and airline functions will be performed by Cuban government employees. “The unilateral action by this Administration to open commercial air travel to Cuba completely disregards Congress’s oversight, and instead, prioritizes an ideological goal over the safety of the American public.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visithttps://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
08.19.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the below statement on the Administration’s $400 million payment to Iran: "The Administration's decision to pay a ransom for the release of five Americans is made even worse by its refusal to play it straight with the American people and admit that it did so. Instead, the State Department is engaging in semantics that insult the intelligence of the public. The fact is, $400 million was sent to the Iranian regime contingent on the release of American prisoners. That's a ransom, plain and simple, and it sets a very dangerous precedent.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
08.11.2016	Lyons, NY – At a ceremony this afternoon in Lyons, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), together with Wayne County Sheriff Barry Virts, honored Wayne County Sheriff’s Deputy Craig Pagnotti for his bravery in apprehending two different suspects, each on separate felony charges, over the course of one day. Deputy Pagnotti was injured twice while taking the suspects into custody. “Our brave men and women in lawenforcement put our lives on the line to defend our communities each and every day,” said Rep. John Katko. “Wayne County Sheriff’s Deputy Craig Pagnotti acted selflessly earlier this Spring, risking his own safety to ensure the safety of Wayne County residents. His own injury did not stop him fromperforming his duties. It was my distinct honor to recognize his valiant actions in a statement submitted to the Congressional Record, and I’m privileged to present it to him today.” Representative Katko submitted a Statement for the Congressional Record honoring Deputy Pagnotti, which he presented to Deputy Pagnotti and his family at this afternoon’s ceremony. The text of the Statement for the Congressional Record can be found below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Deputy Craig Pagnotti of the Wayne County Sheriff Department. On Saturday, May 28, 2016, Deputy Pagnotti apprehended two different suspects,each on a separate felony charge, over the course of the day. On May 28, around 9:00 am, Deputy Pagnotti responded to a domesticcomplaint in Lyons, New York. Upon arrival, the suspect, who had an outstanding warrant for his arrest, fled the scene on foot. Without hesitation, Deputy Pagnotti, pursued and apprehended the suspect, pulling a tendon in his arm while taking the suspect into custody. Deputy Pagnotti was admitted to the hospital, where he received a cast for his injured arm. Shortly after being discharged from the hospital, Deputy Pagnotti continued with his shift and pulled over a vehicle for speeding, just outside of Arcadia, New York. After Deputy Pagnotti discovered drugs in the vehicle, the suspect fled on foot, striking the Deputy in the face and arm. Shortly after the suspect was apprehended, Deputy Pagnotti was taken to the hospital and diagnosed with abroken left arm. I am honored to recognize Deputy Pagnotti for his heroic actions on May 28, 2016. Deputy Pagnotti’s efforts in this situation exemplify the commitment and dedication of the Wayne County Sheriff’s Department. I want to than Deputy Pagnotti and all those serving in law enforcement in Wayne County and throughout the 24th District. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ####
08.09.2016	Syracuse, NY – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today applauded news that Exelon will assume ownership and management of the James A. FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant in Scriba. “I’m very happy that an agreement has been reached to transfer ownership of the Fitzpatrick Plant from Entergy to Exelon Generation,” said Representative Katko. “This solution will save hundreds of skilled, well-paying jobs, while maintaining Fitzpatrick’s reliable, emissions-free generating capacity. It’s a win for the plant’s workers, the Central New York region, and energy consumers around the state of New York. I have been engaged in discussions with all parties involved for months in hopes that a solution could be found to keep this crucial plant open, and I’m gratified to see such a solution move forward. I urge state and federal regulators to swiftly and fairly review this proposal.” Bill Mohl, Entergy Wholesale Commodities President stated, "We appreciate the Congressman's long-standing support of FitzPatrick and his commitment to supporting the employees at the plant. We will continue to work with him and other officials to secure needed approvals in the coming months." "We want to thank Congressman Katko for his continued support for zero-emissions nuclear plants in upstate New York,” said Joseph Dominguez, Executive Vice President of Government and Regulatory Affairs and Public Policy for Exelon. “These plants are vital to the region’s economy and to meeting the state’s carbon-reduction goals.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
08.08.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – At a stop on his Summer Nutrition Tour this morning at Huntington Family Center, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) called for reform to the Summer Nutrition Program, highlighting his support of H.R. 1728, The Summer Meals Act, bipartisan legislation he has cosponsored to allow a greater number of community-based organizations to distribute meals to at-risk children. Rep. Katko also made a stop at the Food Bank of Central New York. Summer Nutrition Programs provide federal funding to serve nutritious meals and snacks during summer break when low-income children lose access to free and reduced-price school meals. Meals are generally served at sites located in low-income areas – such as Huntington Family Center in Syracuse – which also offer learning, enrichment and recreational activities for children. Huntington Family Center, in conjunction with the Food Bank of Central New York, provides approximately 40 meals per day to local children in need. It is one of fourteen summer meal distribution sites in Onondaga, Cayuga, and Lewis Counties. However, these programs are often difficult to administer due to inadequate transportation services and burdensome administrative rules, among other things. “Children across the country – and right here in Central New York – depend on the nutritious meals provided to them at school. However, during the summer months, many go without healthy meals,” said Rep. John Katko, who has focused extensively in Congress on the need to strengthen education to eliminate poverty. “Childhood hunger and malnourishment have lasting impacts on children’s health, education outcomes, and future competitiveness in the workforce. This is an issue that is amplified in the summer months, when only 1 in 6 children in need receive meals through the summer meals program. The Summer Meals Act would strengthen, protect, and ensure access to the Summer Nutrition Programs, and it is critical that Congress take action on this measure to eliminate childhood hunger.” Specifically, The Summer Meals Act would reform current law to ensure that summer food service programs for children may operate efficiently and in areas of the country with the greatest need. Current law requires that 50% of children in the area must be eligible for free or reduced price school meals. This high threshold keeps many communities with significant numbers of low-income children, but not a high enough concentration of poverty, from participating. The Summer Meals Act would change that threshold to require only 40% of children be eligible. The 40% threshold is consistent with other federally funded summer programs, such the 21st Century Community Learning Center programs and Title I. Representative Katko is one of six Republican cosponsors of the bipartisan legislation. Additionally, the legislation would: Allow local government agencies and private nonprofit organizations to feed children year-round through the Summer Food Service Program. Currently, sponsors must apply to and operate both the Summer Food Service Program and the Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) in order to feed children—often the same children—after school and during the summer. This creates duplicative paperwork and confusing administrative rules that discourage participation. Provide funding for transportation grants to fund innovative approaches and mobile meal trucks. Transportation is one of the biggest barriers to participation, and these grants would increase low-income children’s access to summer meals in rural and other under-served areas. Allow all sites to serve a third meal. Many summer meal sites provide child care to working parents and run all day, but most sites are only able to serve a maximum of two meals. This leaves children without enough nutrition to get through the day or forces sites to use program dollars for food. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
08.03.2016	Syracuse, NY – Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today released the below statement following reportsthat the United States exchanged $400 million with the Iranian government for the release of several American hostages: “While details are emerging, reports that the United States secretively exchanged $400 million with the Iranian government for the release of several American hostages is gravely concerning. I am especially bothered by the efforts made to conceal this transaction — including the delivery on wooden pallets by unmarked plane, and the deliberate change in currency to avoid sanctions. The Iranian regime has continued to suppress basic human rights and support foreign terrorist organizations. Coupled with the dangerous, broken policy of the nuclear deal with Iran, this incident, which appears to be a ransom payment, emboldens our enemies and degrades our ability to negotiate from a position of strength, while putting more Americans at risk of being captured. I urge greater transparency from the Administration, including a fully-detailed response to Congress on this payment." Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all ofOnondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.18.2016	Syracuse, NY – Just days after passing the House of Representatives, three national security measures introduced by U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) have passed the Senate and been signed into law by President Obama. The bills were included as part of an extension of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) authorization, legislation to provide needed stability to our nation’s aviation program. Specifically, the legislation included three bipartisan measures authored by Katko, The PreCheck Expansion Act, The Checkpoint Optimization and Efficiency Act, and his SAFE GATES legislation. Together, these measures will provide expedited screening to low risk travelers, reduce wait times at our nation’s airports, and focus on enhancing security at foreign airports with direct flights to the United States. “Since being elected to represent Central New York in Congress, I’ve worked tirelessly to ensure that we’re taking action to keep the traveling public safe in the current high threat environment,” said Representative Katko, who chairs the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation Security Subcommittee. “Tonight, the President signed into law critical legislation to strengthen security for travelers both domestically and internationally, make travel more efficient at airport checkpoints, and ensure that the Transportation Security Administration is ready to protect our transportation infrastructure.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.15.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – Standing this morning at the Prevention Network alongside local families, advocacy groups, healthcare an 63.d treatment providers and law enforcement, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) applauded the passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), bipartisan, bicameral legislation on its way to the President’s desk to help end the heroin and opioid drug epidemic that is ravaging Central New York. Significantly, the bill includes the Katko-authored Kingpin Designation Improvement Act, which strengthens the ability of the federal government to prosecute international drug traffickers. Representative Katko, who has long-championed action in Congress on addressing this epidemic, was joined this morning by Deanna and Brent Axe, the mother and uncle of Morgan Axe, a 24-year-old Central New York woman who tragically lost her life to a heroin overdose while pregnant, as well as many families from the Heroin Epidemic Action League (HEAL), a grassroots advocacy group of parents and community members who are focused on addressing the heroin and opioid epidemic. Katko was also joined by Beth Hurny, Executive Director of the Prevention Network, Monika Taylor, Director of Behavioral Health at Crouse Hospital, and Deputy Onondaga County Sheriff Joe Ciciarelli. “As I’ve traveled throughout Central New York, holding multiple forums on combating the heroin and opioid drug epidemic, I’ve heard heartbreaking stories from families who have lost loved ones and from those who continue to struggle,” said Representative Katko. “That’s why I never wavered in my efforts to ensure that the House took action to address this epidemic. In a time of continued gridlock in Washington, both sides came together to pass this legislation, which makes significant reforms to bolster support for our law enforcement, improve prevention, treatment, and education efforts, and ensure that everyone who seeks treatment is able to receive it.” Holding a photo of her daughter, Morgan, Deanna Axe said this morning, “Today is an emotional day. Congressman Katko has been in the trenches with all of us battling the Heroin & Opioid Epidemic, attacking it from all sides. He took our pleas for help, our tears of anguish, our cries for justice and our longing for hope; and made sure they were woven into the very fiber of this comprehensive bill. I know I speak for hundreds of families when I say thank you Congressman Katko. Thank you for helping in giving us the tools we need to begin to put the pieces of so many shattered lives back together. I know that I will a sleep a little better tonight knowing my daughter’s death was not in vain and that her voice is being heard.” Specifically, the bill: Expands prevention and educational efforts—particularly aimed at teens, parents and other caretakers, and aging populations—to prevent the abuse of methamphetamines, opioids and heroin, and to promote treatment and recovery. Creates multiple comprehensive opioid abuse grants to expand alcohol and drug prevention. Creates prescription drug monitoring programs to help at-risk individuals’ access critical services. Increases availability of treatment by improving the ability for healthcare providers to prescribe medications. Expands the availability of Naloxone for law enforcement and other first responders. Makes reforms to federal punishment related to opioid possession by increasing collaboration with law enforcement and criminal justice systems. Expands disposal sites for unwanted prescription medications to keep them out of the hands of our children and adolescents. New York has been particularly hard hit by the heroin and opioid epidemic. In 2014 alone, heroin-related overdose deaths hit a record 825, up by 159, or 24%, over 2013. Meanwhile, overdose deaths involving prescription opioids totaled a record 1,008 in 2014, nearly quadruple the number in 2005. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.15.2016	Syracuse, NY – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the below statement following the terrorist attack in Nice, France: “Following the deadly terrorist attack in Nice, my heart goes out to all of the victims, their families, the first responders, and the people of France during this incredibly difficult time. We stand in solidarity with our ally, France, and must unite to prevent these horrific attacks. As Chair of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel, I recognize that there is more we must do to counter terrorism both at home and abroad and I am committed to continuing my efforts to do so in Congress.” Congressman John Katko serves on the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement on the failure of the U.S. House of Representatives to take up H.R. 5611, the Homeland Safety and Security Act, legislation aimed at bolstering anti-terrorism efforts and keeping guns out of the hands of terrorists. “This has been an important week. Congress will be sending legislation I offered to President on opioids and homeland security reforms. However, it’s time for Congress to take action to keep guns out of the hands of terrorists. It’s unfortunate that partisan intransigence on both sides of the aisle kept a workable solution from getting a vote in the House of Representatives this week, but I remain hopeful that common sense will prevail and this bill will get the consideration it deserves. I will continue to urge my colleagues – both Democrat and Republican – to take action on this issue.” Representative Katko was an early co-sponsor of the Protect America Act, legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. Lee Zeldin (NY-1) to keep guns out of the hands of terrorists. Provisions in the Zeldin bill are included in the Homeland Safety and Security Act, which, in addition to instituting a ban on the purchase of weapons by suspected terrorists, strengthens programs to counter violent extremism and reforms passport issuance and revocation procedures to make it easier to deny the benefits of a passport to suspected terrorists. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement on this morning’s announcement that Entergy is in discussions with Exelon for the potential sale of the James A. FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant. “When Entergy made its announcement late last year that it was considering shutting down FitzPatrick Nuclear Plant in Oswego County, I vowed to do whatever I could to ensure these local jobs were protected. I have stood alongside FitzPatrick workers, their families, and our state and local leaders in this fight. I have urged the state to consider FitzPatrick's value to our region, both as an economic engine and as a key part of our state's clean energy portfolio. Like many Oswego County families, I have never given up hope. Today’s news of Exelon’s interest in operating FitzPatrick Nuclear Plant is a welcome development for our community. While this proposal is far from certain, I will remain in close contact with company and state officials as it moves forward” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Following the Obama Administration’s failure to account for the screening and security concerns at Cuban airports, U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today introduced the Cuban Airport Security Act of 2016, which effectively puts a pause on all commercial air travel between the United States and Cuba until the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) certifies that Cuban airports have the appropriate security measures in place to protect American travelers. Just two weeks ago, Representative Katko and a bipartisan group of members of the House Homeland Security Committee were denied visas for a scheduled visit to examine the security measures at Cuban airports. The trip was necessitated after Obama Administration officials refused to answer questions from Members of Congress at a House Homeland Security Committee Transportation Security Subcommittee hearing chaired by Representative Katko on the national security concerns associated with resuming commercial air service to Cuba. Representative Katko spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this afternoon to express these concerns and to urge his colleagues to support his legislation, stating in part, “I still have serious concerns about the capabilities of Cuba’s airport screening equipment and procedures, how Cuban airport workers are vetted, and whether or not Federal Air Marshals will even be able to fly missions on American plans to and from Cuba. As the Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee, I believe it is my duty to do everything in my power to ensure the security of the traveling American public and I take that duty very seriously. That is why I have introduced legislation to stop the Administration from moving forward with flights to Cuba until these security concerns are adequately addressed.” The Cuban Airport Security Act of 2016 requires that the Transportation Security Administration certify that Cuban airports provide adequate security screening of passengers before allowing flights between the United States and Cuba. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10), U.S. Rep. Richard Hudson (NC-8) and Rep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28) joined Representative Katko in introducing the legislation today. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – This evening, U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) applauded action taken by the U.S. House of Representatives to approve an extension of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) authorization, which provides needed stability to our nation’s aviation programs. The measure included three bipartisan measures authored by Representative Katko. The Katko-sponsored measures included in the bill are The PreCheck Expansion Act, The Checkpoint Optimization and Efficiency Act, and his SAFE GATES legislation. Together, these measures will provide expedited screening to low risk travelers, reduce wait times at our nation’s airports, and focus on enhancing security at foreign airports with direct flights to the United States. “In the current high threat environment, it is critical that we take action to secure our aviation sector and work to prevent attacks like those in Istanbul and Brussels,” said Representative Katko. “These three measures provide greater efficiency, enhanced safety, and a reformed TSA that is better prepared to protect our transportation infrastructure.” The measure is now headed to the U.S. Senate for approval by that body. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Following today’s passage of the bicameral Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (S. 524), U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) applauded the House for passing this bipartisan measure and urged the Senate to swiftly take action to ensure that the bill reaches the President’s desk. The conference bill, which includes the Katko-authored Kingpin Designation Improvement Act, was long-championed by Representative Katko, who has worked both locally and in Congress to ensure that action is taken to curb the devastating heroin and opioid epidemic affecting Central New York. “I’ve heard heartbreaking stories from families across Central New York who have lost loved ones to this epidemic, and from those who continue to struggle with opioid and heroin abuse – and I’ve made it a priority to address this epidemic in Congress,” said Representative John Katko. “Today, the House took a major step forward to reduce abuse, improve patient care, and ensure that all individuals who are seeking treatment are able to receive it. Addressing this epidemic requires a multifaceted approach – and this legislation attacks the problem from every angle to curb abuse and to help prevent these tragedies from happening to families in our community.” In addition to the inclusion of the Kingpin Designation Improvement Act, which strengthens the ability of the federal government to prosecute international drug traffickers, the conference report also includes language advocated by Katko to extend eligibility for new community-based coalition enhancement grants to areas – including Central New York – which are suffering from a surge in drug crises related to methamphetamine, in addition to opioids. “Significantly, one of the most far-reaching effects of this measure is to allow nurse practitioners and physicians assistants to begin prescribing buprenorphine,” continued Katko, who has continuously advocated for legislation to expand treatment options for individuals addicted to heroin and opioids. “It should not be the case that accessing life-saving treatments is more difficult than accessing heroin and opioid drugs. This measure explicitly grants the Secretary of Health and Human Services the ability to raise the cap on individuals that are able to be treated, and doing so will allow increased access to medication-assisted treatment to cut down wait times for treatment.” In addition, the bipartisan conference report: Assists rural communities by reserving funds to train first responders in these communities to administer life-saving opioid overdose reversal medication. Modernizes the focus of treatment by shifting away from inpatient-treatment and moving towards office-based treatment from a medical doctor and therapies. Ensures that federal resources are focused on evidence-based prevention, treatment, recovery support, criminal justice reform, overdose reversal, and law enforcement. New York has been particularly hard hit by the heroin and opioid epidemic. In 2014 alone, heroin-related overdose deaths hit a record 825, up by 159, or 24%, over 2013. Meanwhile, overdose deaths involving prescription opioids totaled a record 1,008 in 2014, nearly quadruple the number in 2005. To bring greater attention to this crisis locally, Representative Katko has worked alongside local advocates and hosted a number of town hall events in Central New York to bring local families who are struggling with addiction together with local law enforcement, educators, medical professionals, and treatment and prevention specialists. “This is how the legislative process is supposed to work. Both chambers pass a bipartisan bill. A conference committee resolves the differences,” concluded Katko. “I look forward to the Senate passing this conference agreement to demonstrate that Congress works, and, more importantly, to finally deliver results to combat this growing epidemic.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding the FBI’s recommendation not to prosecute former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. “Today, FBI Director James Comey outlined clearly that Secretary Clinton acted recklessly, and likely illegally. He presented evidence of her carelessness. He openly acknowledged that she communicated top secret information on an unsecured email server, despite her previous statements to the contrary. As a former federal prosecutor, I recognize the level of caution that all federal officials handling classified information must exercise – and I take these violations seriously. There was sufficient misconduct alleged by the FBI Director which, at a minimum, warranted the presentation of this evidence to a grand jury. The law should be applied equally, regardless of political status. Today’s inaction only fuels American distrust in our government and sets a dangerous precedent. As Central New York's Representative in Congress, I have worked to reach across the aisle to restore public trust in our government. I believe that today's announcement is a step backward in that effort. Any candidate for elected office must stand to answer for the double standard applied today and for the careless manner in which Secretary Clinton handled her classified communications.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
07.01.2016	Oswego, New York – Standing with local leaders, community members, elected officials, and stakeholders at Fort Ontario and Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter in Oswego this afternoon, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) outlined progress on legislation that he’s introduced to advance the designation of the site towards National Park status. Katko’s legislation, which was recently unanimously approved by the House Committee on Natural Resources, will soon head to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for a vote. In addition to the swift movement in the House on this legislation, Katko requested in April of this year that the National Park Service (NPS) conduct a reconnaissance study to assess the best way to preserve the site. Today, Katko announced that the NPS has granted his request and will begin the reconnaissance study in 2017. “There is no question that this historic site deserves to be preserved and protected as a national landmark. The legislation that I’ve introduced is continuing to gain support in the House, and today, I’m happy to announce that the National Park Service has agreed to complete a reconnaissance survey of Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum,” said Rep. John Katko. “The survey, a foundational study, begins the process of assessing the significance and suitability of this historic site and is another positive step towards establishing Safe Haven and Fort Ontario as a National Park.” Safe Haven Board President George DeMass said, “The significance of Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter is such a unique part of world history that it deserves National Park status. We are so appreciative of Congressman Katko’s constant endeavor and strong support to make this a reality.” “This site is one of our greatest assets in the City of Oswego,” said Mayor Billy Barlow. “I greatly appreciate Congressman Katko’s efforts and commitment in spearheading this effort in Congress. Marking Fort Ontario and Safe Haven as a National Park will undoubtedly grow our region’s tourism-based economy and bring much well-deserved attention to this destination.” “As Oswego County Clerk, protecting and preserving our history is a key function of my job. I am thrilled to see Congressman Katko’s legislation to recognize Fort Ontario and Safe Haven a National Park gain momentum both in the House of Representatives and with the National Park Service. Our entire community looks forward to seeing this historic local treasure recognized nationally,” said Oswego County Clerk Mike Backus. The bill commissions a special resource study of Fort Ontario to evaluate the site’s national significance and determine the suitability of its designation as a part of the National Park system. This study is a prerequisite for receiving a National Park designation. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.24.2016	Washington, D.C. – Members of the House Homeland Security Committee, including U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24), have been blocked by the Cuban government from entering the country to assess security risks associated with resuming air travel between the United States and Cuba. A Congressional Delegation visit was forced to cancel following the Cuban government's failure to issue Members of Congress visas for travel. On February 16 of this year, U.S. and Cuban officials signed an accord which will allow more than 100 daily round-trip flights between the U.S. and Cuba. Representative Katko, who chairs the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation Security subcommittee, had previously held a public hearing to address national security concerns associated with resuming air travel to Cuba. However, these efforts were stonewalled when Department of Homeland Security officials refused to answer questions posed by Representative Katko and members of his subcommittee, despite these same officials having previously expressed concerns that Cuba lacks the necessary aviation security capabilities to safely resume air travel between the two countries. “The Obama Administration has failed to adequately answer basic security questions relating to screening processes in Cuba – and today, the Cuban government has continued to obstruct Congress from gaining answers by blocking Congressional travel to examine these national security concerns,” said Representative Katko. “We still don’t know if Cuba has the adequate body scanners and explosive detection systems in place, whether it has the technology to screen for fraudulent passports or ID, whether or how aviation workers are screened, and if Federal Air Marshals will be allowed to fly missions to Cuba. The Administration is eager to have as many people as possible visit Cuba – except for those who are attempting to examine Cuban security infrastructure.” Katko noted that the recent MetroJet crash in Egypt and the bombing of the plane as it departed Mogadishu were facilitated by corrupted and radicalized airport workers. Meanwhile, airlines will now be permitted to have operational staff on the ground at minimally ten new Last Point of Departure (LPD) airports to the United States in Cuba. “From check-in, to screening, to boarding the plane – passengers will only come in contact with personnel working for the Cuban government. This is a government that was only just removed as a state sponsor of terrorism list one year ago and it is not enough to rely on the Castro regime’s word that these airports are secure,” continued Representative Katko. “This Administration is going full speed ahead to open Cuban airports to travel between the U.S. and Cuba while turning a blind eye to major security concerns at a time of heightened terrorist threats.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Legislation authored by U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) was today included as part of a larger, comprehensive piece of legislation aimed at combating terrorism in the wake of the horrific terrorist attack in Orlando. H.R. 5471, the Countering Terrorist Radicalization Act, is comprised of three bills, including bipartisan legislation introduced and passed by Katko, the Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act, which streamlines domestic counterterrorism efforts with the Department of Homeland Security. “Our nation has experienced a tragedy. As we continue to mourn the victims of Sunday’s horrific terrorist attack in Orlando, it is critical that we take action to counter violent extremism and to strengthen our counterterrorism tools here at home,” said Rep. John Katko. “Keeping terrorists off our shores and preventing ISIS from radicalizing Americans requires smarter coordination in our counterterrorism efforts so that we can stop an attack before it happens.” Katko, who lead the House Homeland Security Committee’s bipartisan Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, has looked extensively at many of the vulnerabilities exposed in Orlando, Chattanooga, Garland, and San Bernardino. Speaking on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this morning in support of the legislation, Katko noted that authorities are currently investigating over 800 ISIS-linked cases and have discovered 89 total plots against the West – including 25 in the United States. Katko continued, “Today’s legislation encapsulates several ideas that the House has worked on for months to improve counterterrorism efforts -- including legislation that I authored to integrate intelligence, operations, and policy components so that our law enforcement and intelligence partners can coordinate actions more effectively and expeditiously. It is time for the Senate to take action on this important, bipartisan package of bills so that these measures reach the President’s desk.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This morning, legislation introduced by U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24), H.R. 4202, the Fort Ontario Study Act, was unanimously approved by the House Committee on Natural Resources. The bill advances the designation of Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum in Oswego towards National Park status. Today’s full committee approval comes less than a month after Representative Katko delivered testimony in support of his legislation before the Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee on Federal Lands. The bill now advances to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for a vote. “This legislation takes the first step in preserving the legacy of a historic gem in our community. Fort Ontario has been involved in nearly every war from the French and Indian War through WWII, with Safe Haven providing shelter to over 980 refugees during World War II,” said Representative Katko. “This historic site already draws visitors from across the nation and its designation as a National Park would preserve the history of this site and continue to boost our region’s growing tourism-based economy.” Katko’s legislation would commission a special resource study of Fort Ontario to evaluate the site’s national significance and determine the suitability of its designation as a part of the National Park system. This study is a prerequisite for receiving National Park designation. Over the course of the past several months, individuals from across Oswego County have worked to organize local support for the designation of the 260 year old Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum as a National Park. As a part of these efforts, Rep. Katko has visited the Fort on several occasions, met individually with a cross-section of his constituents in the area surrounding the Fort, and took part in an information and rally event to raise community awareness for this project. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.13.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – In a ceremony held this morning, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) presented a long overdue Prisoner of War (POW) Medal to Mr. Fay C. Bailey, a 94 year-old World War II veteran taken prisoner in 1944 while serving as a Second Lieutenant Pilot in the United States Army Air Forces. Representatives from the 174th Attack Wing at Hancock Air National Guard Base joined Rep. Katko for the presentation. Mr. Bailey left his studies in Mechanical Engineering at Clarkson University in 1942 to enlist in the armed forces. Two years later, while stationed in Southern Italy, Mr. Bailey was flying as a substitute pilot on a B-24 bomber when and his crew were shot down by German soldiers. He was held captive as a Prisoner of War for nine months, until April 1945. In December 1990, Mr. Bailey was informed by the Secretary of the Air Force that he had been awarded the Prisoner of War Medal. However, he never physically received the award. Around Veterans Day 2015, Mr. Bailey saw local news coverage of veterans being awarded medals they were owed. This prompted him to contact Representative Katko, who was able to secure the medal owed to Mr. Bailey from the Department of the Air Force. “Mr. Bailey selflessly served our country and made incredible sacrifices to ensure that our freedoms remained protected,” said Representative John Katko. “At a young age, he joined our nation’s Armed Services and faced the most unimaginable circumstances as a Prisoner of War. He is truly deserving of this recognition, and it is my distinct honor to present Mr. Bailey with this medal today.” Following WWII, Mr. Bailey completed his studies at Clarkson University in Mechanical Engineering. He and his wife, Rita Taylor, reside in the Town of Onondaga. The Prisoner of War Medal was created by Congress and signed into law by President Ronald Reagan in 1985. It is authorized for any person who, while serving in any capacity within the United States Armed Forces, was held as a Prisoner of War after April 5, 1917. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Just over one week following the tragic crash which resulted in the death of Blue Angel Pilot, Marine Corps Captain Jeffrey Kuss, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) this morning delivered remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in his honor. Representative Katko’s remarks come during Syracuse’s first-ever Navy Week, which was expected to culminate with a performance of the Blue Angels at the Syracuse Hancock International Air Show. The airshow will go on this weekend without a performance by the Blue Angels and will include a tribute to Captain Kuss. Video of Representative Katko’s remarks can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the life of Marine Corps Captain Jeffrey Kuss, a pilot with the Navy’s elite Blue Angels flying squadron who tragically lost his life in a fatal crash just over one week ago. This week is the first-ever Navy Week in Syracuse, which is marked by a series of local outreach efforts focused on translating the mission of the U.S. Navy to our community. The week was expected to culminate with a performance of the Blue Angels at the Syracuse Hancock International Airport Air Show. Tragically, Marine Corps Captain Jeff Kuss – a married father of two young children – was killed when his jet crashed two miles from a runway near Nashville, Tennessee. Captain Kuss, a native of Durango, Colorado, devoted his life to serving our country as a U.S. Marine – joining the Blue Angels in September 2014. At 32 years old, he had accumulated more than 1,400 flight hours and 175 carrier-arrested landings. His decorations include the Strike Flight Air Medal, the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal, and various personal and unit awards. While the Syracuse Air Show will go on without the Blue Angels this weekend, our community is deeply saddened by the loss of this fallen pilot – and the show will celebrate and pay tribute to his life. As Captain Kuss’ family and Blue Angels squadron grieve this tremendous loss, Central New York will this weekend remember and honor his life and service to our great nation. Semper Fi Marine. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today unanimously passed bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) to address the growing TSA wait times at airports nationwide. The Checkpoint Optimization and Efficiency Act of 2016, introduced by Representative Katko less than two weeks ago, directly addresses the TSA’s current, flawed staffing model and works to ensure that the agency’s resources are utilized and allocated in the most efficient and effective manner to reduce wait times. “With the summer travel season upon us, it should not be the case the passengers are missing flights or that airports are approaching operational ground stop due to long lines at security TSA security checkpoints,” said Representative Katko. “Today, the House took action to address this crisis. The bipartisan measure that I’ve introduced and passed through the House overhauls TSA’s current, bureaucratic procedures and implements commonsense practices to help ensure that the TSA and local airports are working in coordination to relieve congestion. Now, it’s time for the Senate to do its job and take action on this measure.” Specifically, the legislation introduced by Representative Katko: Grants TSA the flexibility to utilize all personnel present to compensate for long wait lines, including reallocating Behavior Detection Officers to speed up passenger screening efforts and granting greater authority to Federal Security Directors, who know the individual airport best, to make staffing resource decisions. Ensures that private stakeholders, airports, and government regulators are coordinating response through a staffing advisory committee. Requires TSA to assess its current staffing allocation model and share this model with both air carriers and airports. Reallocates canine team assets to high volume airports and checkpoints. Requires TSA to establish a service level agreement and minimum staffing numbers with air carriers and airports. The legislation is the result of significant feedback from the airline industry as well as airports around the country, including Christina Callahan, Executive Director of the Syracuse Hancock International Airport, who recently testified before Representative Katko’s Transportation Security subcommittee on local efforts to ensure checkpoint efficiency. In addition to today’s action in the House, Representative Katko has called on the U.S. Senate to unblock legislation that he unanimously passed out of the House, the PreCheck Expansion Act. This legislation would expedite airport screenings by requiring the TSA to make the PreCheck process simpler, for example, by allowing travelers to apply online and by expanding enrollment centers. Congressman John Katko serves on the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, following two House Homeland Security inquiries this week into the growing TSA wait lines at airports around the country, Representative Katko introduced the bipartisan Checkpoint Optimization and Efficiency Act of 2016, to overhaul TSA bureaucracy and help relieve congestion at airports as peak travel season approaches. The legislation directly addresses the efficiency of the TSA, as well as the current, flawed staffing model used by this agency. “Travelers are frustrated with TSA’s bureaucracy – facing longer lines, and in some cases, missing flights and having to return home or stay overnight in the airport,” said Representative Katko. “This is a crisis that must be addressed before we head into the busy summer months of travel. Today, I’ve introduced legislation which takes the first step in requiring greater coordination between the TSA and local airports so that we can relieve congestion and ensure that travelers are able to make it to their destinations on schedule.” The legislation introduced by Representative Katko today is the result of significant feedback from the airline industry as well as airports around the country, including Christina Callahan, Executive Director of the Syracuse Hancock International Airport, who testified this morning before Representative Katko’s Transportation Security subcommittee on local efforts to ensure checkpoint efficiency. “This measure provides greater flexibility and accountability to the TSA – allowing the agency to better utilize its personnel by collaborating with local airports and air carriers to ensure that staffing is best allocated at each individual airport,” continued Representative Katko. “Moreover, by opening communication between local airports, air carriers and the TSA, this commonsense legislation will help ensure that passengers have minimal wait times.” Specifically, the legislation introduced by Representative Katko would: Grant TSA the flexibility to utilize all personnel present to compensate for long wait lines, including reallocating Behavior Detection Officers to speed up passenger screening efforts and granting greater authority to Federal Security Directors, who know the individual airport best, to make staffing resource decisions. Ensure that private stakeholders, airports, and government regulators are coordinating response through a staffing advisory committee. Require TSA to assess its current staffing allocation model and share this model with both air carriers and airports. Reallocate canine team assets to high volume airports and checkpoints. Require TSA to establish a service level agreement and minimum staffing numbers with air carriers and airports. Last week, Representative Katko called on the U.S. Senate to unblock legislation that he unanimously passed out of the House, the PreCheck Expansion Act. This legislation would expedite airport screenings by requiring the TSA to make the PreCheck process simpler, for example, by allowing travelers to apply online and by expanding enrollment centers. Congressman John Katko serves on the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today delivered testimony at a legislative hearing held by the House Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee on Federal Lands in support of legislation that he has introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives which would advance the designation of Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum in Oswego to National Park status. Video of Representative Katko’s testimony can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: I want to thank the Chairman for putting this hearing together and allowing me to speak on my bill, H.R. 4202, the Fort Ontario Study Act. Overlooking the beautiful shores of Lake Ontario, Fort Ontario stands as a testament to the great history of Central New York and the important role the region has played in our nation’s history from the French and Indian War through World War II. Serving first as a military installation during the French and Indian War, the Revolutionary War, and the War of 1812, Fort Ontario went on to be strengthened during the Civil War and utilized as a hospital camp during World War I. In 1944, President Franklin D. Roosevelt declared Fort Ontario as an Emergency Refugee Camp. From 1944 to 1946, Fort Ontario served as the nation’s only Emergency Refugee Camp, providing shelter to over 980 refugees during World War II. In recognition of the Fort’s use as a refugee shelter, primarily for Jews fleeing Hitler’s Europe, the site also hosts the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum. Following World War II, the Fort was transferred to the State of New York to house war veterans and their families until 1953. Fort Ontario, now a New York Historic Site and listed on the National Register of Historic Places, draws residents of New York and visitors from across the nation to experience the rich history of the Fort and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum. After visiting Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum, meeting with the community of Oswego, New York which has rallied behind the 260 year old Fort, and witnessing the tremendous history being preserved and passed on, I introduced H.R. 4202, the Fort Ontario Study Act. This legislation would commission a special resource study of Fort Ontario to evaluate the site’s national significance and determine the suitability of its designation as a part of the National Park system. Preserving this historic location as a National Park will not only preserve the rich history but has the potential to grow tourism and boost the regional economy of Central New York. I appreciate the opportunity to speak today to advocate for the preservation of Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum, irreplaceable and unparalleled pieces of our nation’s history and the fabric of Central New York. Over the course of the past several months, individuals from across Oswego County have worked to organize local support for the designation of the 260 year old Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum as a National Park. As part of these efforts, Rep. Katko has visited the Fort on several occasions, met individually with a cross-section of his constituents in the area surrounding the Fort, and took part in an information and rally event to raise community awareness for this project. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) this evening released the below statement following the House Homeland Security Transportation Security Subcommittee’s hearing on resuming commercial air service to Cuba: “Today, the Department of Homeland Security continued to stonewall the Committee onHomeland Security’s oversight of the Administration’s plans to open up air travel between United States and Cuba.” “Despite having previously expressed concerns that Cuba lacks the necessary aviationsecurity capabilities, representatives from the Department refused to provide sufficient answers to Members’ questions this afternoon and played politics with the security of traveling Americans.” “Further, only under threat of subpoena did the Department agree to provide a witnesswith first-hand knowledge of the current security situation in Cuba. Even then, the Administration failed to allow the witness to openly testify about security concerns that he had previously stated to the Committee.” “This lack of transparency is a clear obstruction of the Committee’s pursuit of conducting reasonable oversight. The Subcommittee on Transportation Security will continue with rigorous oversight to ensure the security and integrity of the United States.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov orwww.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – With TSA wait times skyrocketing at airports nationwide, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation Security Subcommittee today called on the U.S. Senate to take action on his bipartisan TSA PreCheck Expansion Act (H.R. 2843). The TSA PreCheck program is a risk-based security model which provides streamlined screening for low-risk passengers who submit biographical information and undergo a security risk assessment. Katko’s legislation, which unanimously passed the House, would expedite airport screenings by requiring the Transportation Security Administration to make the PreCheck process simpler, for example, by allowing travelers to apply online and by expanding enrollment centers. "Recently, we've seen an added inconvenience at airports as travelers nationwide are forced to endure lengthy waits at TSA checkpoints. As we head into Memorial Day weekend and a busy summer of travel, it is critical that the Senate unblock the bipartisan legislation that I've passed through the House so that we can make travel more efficient,” said Rep. John Katko. Recently, Central New York saw the benefits of expanded access to TSA PreCheck when an additional enrollment center was added at the Syracuse Hancock International Airport. "Expanding the TSA PreCheck program is a common sense, responsible solution to the growing wait lines that are plaguing traveling Americans. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act swiftly to remedy this problem," concluded Katko. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – This afternoon U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Transportation Security subcommittee, will hold a hearing on the Obama Administration’s recent accord that will allow more than 100 daily round-trip flights between the U.S. and Cuba. The Committee has serious concerns with the security implications and is worried that the Administration’s broader policies towards Cuba is impacting the security receives required by U.S. law. “After a 54-year freeze in diplomatic relations, the Administration is attempting to designate ten Cuban airports as last points of departure, or LPDs, to the United States,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Cuba possesses no explosive trace detection equipment, only two body scanners, and poorly trained K9 units. What’s more, flights to and from Cuba have historically been attractive targets for terrorists and hijackers. Today, my subcommittee will today examine the potential risks associated with resuming U.S. flights to Cuba, as well as the ability and willingness of Cuban officials to take airport security and passenger screening seriously.” Details for today’s hearing are below: Flying Blind: What Are the Security Risks of Resuming U.S. Commercial Air Service to Cuba?311 Cannon House Office Building, at 2:00 p.m. Today’s hearing will evaluate the potential risks to national, homeland and passenger security related to the resumption of commercial air service to Cuba as well as understand the process by which TSA, CBP and DHS certify these last points of departure airports, the timeline under which this process will occur and how aviation security and other security concerns informed the Cuba policy development. Live Stream of the hearing is available. Witnesses include: Mr. Larry MizellTSA Representative Transportation Security Administration U.S. Department of Homeland Security Mr.FujimuraAssistant Administrator Office of GlobalStrategies U.S. Department of Homeland Security Mr. John WagnerDeputy Executive Assistant Commissioner Customs and Border Protection U.S. Department of Homeland Security Mr. Seth StodderAssistant Secretary of Homeland Security Border, Immigration & Trade Policy U.S. Department of Homeland Security Mr. Kurt TongPrincipal Deputy Assistant Secretary Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs U.S. Department of State Representative Katko chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee, which has sole jurisdiction over all Transportation Security Administration (TSA) security matters, including the security of passengers and cargo within the U.S. aviation system and TSA’s work to secure various modes of surface transportation such as mass transit systems, railroads, trucks, and pipelines. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visithttps://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) aimed at bolstering counterterrorism efforts in the United States overwhelmingly passed the U.S. House of Representatives this evening. H.R. 4407, the Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act of 2016, emerged as one of several recommendations released by the bipartisan Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel, which Rep. Katko chaired. The legislation establishes a Counterterrorism Advisory Board (CTAB) within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to coordinate and integrate departmental intelligence, activities, and policy related to counterterrorism. Initially established at the end of 2010, this panel brings together the top counterterrorism officials in DHS to respond to and preempt threats. However, the Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel found that the CTAB had neither been codified, nor had its charter kept pace with today’s evolving terrorist threats. Today’s legislation remedies that oversight and will help ensure that DHS is effectively integrating intelligence, operations, and policy to fight terrorism and is quickly exchanging threat information. “The United States faces the highest threat level since 9/11—with open counterterrorism investigations in all 50 states and more than 80 ISIS-related arrests over the past two years. Combating global terrorism and foreign fighter travel requires a smart, coordinated, and collaborative effort,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko following the bill’s passage. “This bipartisan legislation implements one of the Foreign Fighter Task Force’s foremost recommendations and will help ensure that the Department of Homeland Security is acting efficiently and using every tool it has available to respond to terrorist threats and keep our country safe.” The bill is Katko’s eleventh to pass the House since he was sworn in to represent Central New York in Congress in January 2015. Specifically, this legislation: Updates the CTAB Charter to better enable it to confront tomorrow’s challenges and requires the Secretary to appoint a Coordinator for Counterterrorism to oversee the board’s activities. Requires the CTAB to advise the Secretary on the issuance of terrorism alerts, ensuring that top counterterrorism and intelligence officials play a key role in developing these critical notices to the public. Ensures continued Congressional oversight by requiring DHS to report on the status and activities of the CTAB so that we can be certain it is meeting its mandate. The Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel released its final report in September 2015, including 50 recommendations for improving national security. To date, the House Homeland Security Committee has acted legislatively on nearly half. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
05.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Bipartisan legislation introduced by Representative John Katko (NY-24) to crack down on international drug trafficking in the United States and combat the heroin epidemic that is ravaging Central New York today unanimously passed the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill, the Kingpin Designation Improvement Act (H.R. 4985), is Katko’s tenth, bipartisan measure to pass the House, and is part of the House’s efforts this week to tackle the rise in heroin and opioid abuse in this country. This legislation makes important changes to strengthen the federal Kingpin Act, which has been used to sanction individuals involved in international narcotics trafficking for nearly two decades. “I’ve held a number of open forums throughout Central New York, and there is no question that heroin and opioid abuse has hit our community hard,” said Representative John Katko. “For nearly two decades, I worked as a federal prosecutor, fighting organized crime and narcotics trafficking and distribution. In order to effectively combat this epidemic, we must take a multifaceted approach. That includes targeting high-level drug traffickers – both domestically and internationally.” Currently, the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) is able to designate international drug traffickers as “kingpins,” and in so doing, block these individuals from using the U.S. financial system. To date, more than 1,800 individuals – all non-U.S. persons – have been designated drug kingpins by the OFAC. Many of the individuals designated as kingpins are placed on this list on the basis of classified information. The law provides a process by which these individuals can seek removal from the list in federal court. Unfortunately, the law does not currently protect classified information during this process – meaning that the U.S. government risks having classified information being publicly disclosed, opening up the possibility that some kingpins won’t be sanctioned at all, or will be removed from the Kingpin list despite significant evidence of their illicit activities. Katko’s legislation addresses this issue and strengthens the Kingpin Act by simply making clear that OFAC maysubmit classified information to defend its designations in a non-public, protected setting. In doing so, the legislation removes a potential barrier to adding, or keeping a drug trafficker on OFAC’s Kingpin designation list. “This commonsense, bipartisan legislation will help ensure that we are able to impose the toughest sanctions on international drug kingpins. It strengthens the process by which we hold international drug traffickers accountable in Federal court, while protecting classified information from disclosure. Doing so will make it more difficult for these criminals to carry out their dangerous and destructive trade,” concluded Katko. Representative Katko has focused extensively on combating the heroin epidemic that is plaguing Central New York both legislatively in Washington by championing expanded treatment, and locally through a series of town hall meetings across the 24th Congressional District focused on raising public awareness. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
05.10.2016	Syracuse, NY – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that Mia Guariano, a Junior from Westhill High School, has been named the winner of the 2016 NY-24 Congressional Art Competition. Her charcoal drawing, “Displeased” will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one full year. “Once again, I was truly impressed by the caliber of artwork that was submitted by many talented young people across NY-24,” said Rep. John Katko. “I am pleased to announce Mia Guariano’s ‘Displeased’ as the winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition. I look forward to seeing her piece in Washington, where it will be on display for thousands of visitors to the U.S. Capitol.” Congressman Katko’s Syracuse, Auburn, Oswego, and Lyons offices received over 30 unique and creative entries from students across the 24th Congressional District. The winning piece of art was selected by a panel of esteemed judges from each of the four counties of NY-24. Mia will travel to Washington for a reception in June. Second place was awarded to Ally Stewart, a student at West Genesee High School for her mixed media piece entitled, “August.” Honorable Mention was given to Leah King, a student from Skaneateles High School for her photograph entitled, “Trip to New York City.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding the decision to reject construction of the Constitution natural gas pipeline: "I was disappointed to learn that the Constitution pipeline was rejected. Policy makers at every level of government need to look at all opportunities to lower energy costs and create well-paying jobs. I am afraid we missed an opportunity to accomplish both of these objectives." Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.27.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed bipartisan legislation, introduced by Representative John Katko (NY-24), to bolster security at overseas airports with direct flights to the United States. The bill is Katko’s ninth to pass the House since being elected to represent Central New York in Congress. H.R. 4698, the Securing Aviation from Foreign Entry Points and Guarding Airports Through Enhanced Security Act (SAFE GATES), was introduced just last month before the recent bombings at an airport in Belgium and passed unanimously out of the House Homeland Security Committee the day following the attacks. The legislation is the result of tremendous bipartisan efforts on the House Homeland Security Committee to address insider threats both at domestic airports and international airports with direct flights to the United States. “One of the most vulnerable points of attack exists for international-inbound aviation. Terror groups across the world understand the horrific symbolism of bringing down an aircraft and are persistently plotting to take down our planes. Terrorists recognize that it is easier to attack an aircraft destined for the United States from overseas, rather than travel to the United States and then plot a domestic attack. This understanding is nothing new—my own district of Syracuse tragically learned of terrorists’ determination when 35 Syracuse University students, along with my close friend’s sister, were killed in the Lockerbie bombing of Pan-Am Flight 103 in 1988,” said Representative Katko. “Now, with the horrific attacks in Belgium against two transportation modes, including aviation, it has been reiterated that we must not wait for such attacks to occur against us again. We must be as determined to mitigate the threat as extremists are in perpetrating their attacks against us.” Specifically, Katko’s legislation directs the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to assess security at overseas airports and gives TSA new authority to provide screening equipment and technology to foreign airports in order to mitigate risks of terrorism against traveling Americans and US Air Carriers. Additionally, the bill directs the independent Aviation Security Advisory Committee, comprised of representatives from throughout the transportation sector, to make recommendations to TSA on ways to improve passenger screening checkpoint effectiveness and efficiency. Congressman John Katko serves on the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He led the Committee’s bipartisan Task Force on Combating Terrorist & Foreign Fighter Travel, which produced 32 findings and 50 recommendations on combating terrorist travel. More than half of these recommendations are on their way to becoming law. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – Bipartisan legislation introduced by Representative John Katko (NY-24) to crack down on international drug trafficking in the United States today unanimously passed out of the House Committee on the Judiciary and is headed to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for a vote. The Kingpin Designation Improvement Act, H.R. 4985, bipartisan legislation introduced by Representative Katko and Representative Kathleen Rice (NY-4) this week, protects classified information in court proceedings involving international drug kingpins. Currently, under the federal Kingpin Act, the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) is able to designate international drug traffickers as kingpins, and thereby block them from using the U.S. financial system. Designees are able to challenge their listing in federal court. However, unlike a similar statute used by OFAC, the Kingpin Act does not contain a provision to protect classified information when such information is used as the basis for a designation. This means that the U.S. government risks having classified information being publicly disclosed. H.R. 4985 addresses this issue by making clear that OFAC can submit classified information to defend its designations in federal district court without it being publicly disclosed. In doing so, the legislation removes a potential barrier to adding, or keeping a drug trafficker on OFAC’s Kingpin designation list. “As a former federal organized crime and narcotics prosecutor, I recognize that attacking the heroin epidemic requires the targeting of high-level drug traffickers – both domestically and internationally,” said Representative Katko following the Committee’s vote today. “In order to do so effectively, we must ensure that we are able to impose the toughest sanctions on these drug kingpins. This important, bipartisan legislation strengthens the process by which we hold international drug traffickers accountable in Federal court, while protecting classified information from disclosure.” Representative Katko has focused extensively on combating the heroin epidemic that is plaguing Central New York both legislatively in Washington by championing expanded treatment, and locally through a series of town hall meetings across the 24th Congressional District . Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following today’s news that Harriet Tubman will appear on the $20 bill, U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24), who previously introduced bipartisan legislation in the House to place Harriet Tubman’s likeness on a Federal Reserve Note, released the below statement: “It is far past time that our currency honor and celebrate the accomplishments of American women. Today’s historic announcement that the U.S. Treasury will feature Harriet Tubman on the $20 bill is tremendous news for Central New York, and especially for Auburn – a place that Harriet Tubman called home. “This designation is a fitting tribute to a woman who escaped slavery and devoted her life to advancing the freedom and equality of African Americans and the rights of women. With today’s announcement, Harriet Tubman’s legacy, courage, and commitment to others will be forever enshrined on our U.S. Currency. I commend the many advocacy groups, especially those in Cayuga County, who have worked tirelessly to encourage the U.S. Treasury to feature this iconic woman on the $20 bill. “Central New York is privileged to be home to the Harriet Tubman Home in Auburn, which is on the verge of becoming a National Park. Coupled with today’s announcement, our region’s tourism-based economy will only continue to grow as we work to ensure that Harriet Tubman’s legacy lives on for generations. Rep. Katko and Rep. Elijah Cummings (MD-7) last year introduced The Harriet Tubman Tribute Act, to require the Secretary of the Treasury to place Harriet Tubman’s likeness on a Federal Reserve Note by 2017. Just last week, Representative Katko called on Attorney General Loretta Lynch to finalize the agreement establishing the Harriet Tubman Home in Auburn as a National Park., noting the importance of this project to Central New York’s economy and to Harriet Tubman’s legacy. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
04.19.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – In the following op-ed published in the Syracuse Post Standard, U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) highlights the benefits of bipartisan legislation that he introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives to provide tax relief for working families. Parental Savings Account proposal is a better paid family leave option for workers, small businesses Syracuse Post Standard By: Rep. John Katko April 18, 2016 When my oldest son Sean was born 21 years ago, my wife Robin and I, like all new parents, were overjoyed as we brought home our newborn son. But along with that joy came a number of new financial commitments – diapers, formula, healthcare – as well as ongoing costs like mortgage payments, groceries and saving for our new child's college education. As we both took time off to be with our son, our household income went down as our costs went up. Our story is not unique. On average, families spend roughly $12,000 on child-related expenses during the first year of parenthood. In this economy, new parents and families around Central New York make the difficult choice between their jobs and staying home with their newborn child. Like many Central New Yorkers, I have watched a typical Washington political debate ensue on the issue of paid family leave. As a parent and someone who is new to political office, I was eager to re-frame the debate. A current proposal on the federal level would implement new taxes and regulations on working families and small businesses to fund a government-run, one-size-fits-all paid leave program. Nearly every American, regardless of their income or need for family leave, would see an additional tax taken out of their paycheck to form another government trust fund. This misguided proposal even taxes the working poor struggling with every-day expenses. It taxes Americans who are nearing retirement and have already raised their families. Every business, large and small, would be subject to a new payroll tax. This plan is an empty promise. It taxes the very families it claims to help and is fiscally unsustainable. In Congress, I've introduced bipartisan legislation to provide a compromise that both sides can get behind. The plan, which is entirely optional, allows men and women to create a Parental Savings Account. Just like a health savings account, Americans can choose to affordably contribute money, tax-free, to support their family during the first year of parenthood. Funds can be withdrawn and spent on childcare, doctor's visits, diapers or simply to pay the rent or mortgage. It covers more than just the 12 weeks of leave provided under federal law and helps to ease the financial burden during the first year of parenthood. Americans who choose to participate, but do not end up starting a family, are able to roll unused funds into a retirement account or college savings plan. My proposal is personalized and flexible to meet the financial needs of all working parents. For example, if an individual who earns just $20,000 per year chose to contribute $3 per day for just over one year, that person would save more than enough for 13 weeks of paid maternity or paternity leave. Under my plan, small businesses are given the option of contributing into parental savings accounts to help support their employees. One Central New York mother and business owner recounted her experience of raising three young children while simultaneously running her family's 24/7 business. She shared her difficult decision to leave her children at home after only a few weeks and how she has seen many of her employees do the same. As a small business owner, she is unable to provide her staff with paid family leave, but she, and several other local business owners, fully supports an option to provide employees with a tool for saving. We will not strengthen families, or our economy, by increasing taxes on hardworking Central New Yorkers and local small businesses. My plan supports families by providing a flexible, individualized, affordable vehicle for savings without placing a burden on businesses. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ####
04.13.2016	Syracuse, NY – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today urged the U.S. Justice Department (DOJ) to approve a pending agreement currently before the DOJ which would finalize the process of establishing the Harriet Tubman Home in Auburn as a National Park. In a letter sent to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, Representative Katko noted that the project is in a holding pattern until DOJ approves of the agreement. “Harriet Tubman is an American hero who left her mark on Central New York. Her home right here in Auburn is a symbol of her courageous and tireless efforts to advance the rights of African Americans and women,” stated Representative Katko. “The creation of a National Park in her name is not only a fitting tribute to an extraordinary woman, but it will allow Central New York residents and tourists from across our nation to learn more about her life’s work.” For the past four months, the DOJ has been reviewing a pending General Agreement for the purchase of land between Harriet Tubman Home, Inc., and the National Park Service (NPS). Because the property is owned by a religious entity, the transaction is required to receive a mandatory review by the DOJ and approval by the United States Attorney General to ensure that the agreement does not violate the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution. However, as Representative Katko outlined in his letter to Attorney General Lynch, this matter has been before the DOJ for some time, with the draft general agreement being transmitted to the DOJ in early December of last year. “This project is too important to our community and to our nation’s history to be slowed down by government bureaucracy and red tape,” continued Representative Katko. “I’m hopeful that Attorney General Lynch will recognize the importance of establishing the Harriet Tubman Home as a national park, and move quickly to make this project a reality.” A copy of Representative Katko’s letter to Attorney General Lynch is below: Dear Attorney General Lynch: I am writing to inquire about the status of a U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) review of a pending general agreement between Harriet Tubman Home, Inc. (HTH), located in my Congressional District in Auburn, NY, and the National Park Service (NPS) on the purchase of land necessary to create a manageable unit of NPS. To date, the Harriet Tubman Home and the National Park Service have worked hand-in-hand to develop the site into a new national park unit. This unit is of tremendous historical significance, and will give the public a valuable resource to learn about Harriet Tubman’s heroic contributions to our nation. In order to create a manageable unit, NPS must complete the purchase of a parcel of property from HTH, Inc.. Because the property in question is owned by a religious entity, the transaction must additionally receive a mandatory review by the DOJ and approval from the United States Attorney General to ensure that the agreement does not violate the Establishment Clause of the Constitution. This matter has been before the DOJ for some time, with the draft general agreement being transmitted to the DOJ in early December of last year. Until this review is complete, and you have personally approved of the transaction, all work on the establishment of this National Park unit must necessarily be put on hold. I would appreciate an update as soon as possible on DOJ’s timeline for completing this review and rendering a decision. Your assistance in answering this inquiry would be greatly appreciated. Please direct any questions or information regarding this inquiry to my Syracuse District Office at 440 S. Warren Street or by phone at 315-423-5657. Thank you for your assistance. Sincerely, John M. Katko Member of Congress, NY-24 Since being elected to represent Central New York in Congress, Representative Katko has focused on growing tourism to boost our region’s economy. In addition to supporting the establishment of the Harriet Tubman Home as a National Park, he has introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives to elevate Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum in Oswego to National Park Status. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ####
04.07.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement on the inclusion of two of his bills, H.R. 2843, the TSA PreCheck Expansion Act, and H.R. 4698, the Securing Aviation from Foreign Entry Points and Guarding Airports Through Enhanced Security Act (SAFE GATES), in legislation being considered by the U.S. Senate to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration. “I applaud Senator Thune for including two bipartisan bills that I introduced in the House to expand TSA’s PreCheck program and bolster security at overseas airports with direct flights to the United States in re-authorization legislation for the Federal Aviation Administration. “Together, as partners in Congress, we can make the traveling public more secure and promote the free movement of the American people across the country and around the world. As my district understands all-too-well from the Lockerbie Bombing of Pan-Am Flight 103, which took the lives of 35 Syracuse University students and the sister of one of my closest friends, the terrorist threats against are aviation sector are persistent and real. “I am gratified that this amendment passed by a margin by 89-10. It is vital that these two pieces of legislation get to the President’s desk, and I’m glad to see the Senate moving these reforms forward.” Congressman John Katko chairs the House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Transportation Security. He represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties, and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit Katko.house.gov orfacebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.05.2016	Syracuse, NY – Following the recent release of two ‘high risk’ detainees from Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement: “It is clear from the recent release of two individuals from Guantanamo Bay that the Administration’s dangerous foreign policy puts our national and global security at risk. Both men -- Salem Abdu Salam Ghereby and Omar Khalif Mohammed Abu Baker Mahjour Umar -- were classified as ‘high risk’ detainees, have close ties to al-Qaieda, and are known explosive experts. The Pentagon has previously determined these two terrorists, if released, were likely to pose a threat to the United States. What’s more, their release comes just days after the Obama administration confirmed that former Guantanamo detainees have killed American citizens. “Once again, the Administration has bypassed Congress and acted unilaterally to pursue unworkable policies. The Administration has been unwilling to alter their policy goals even after previously released detainees have returned to the battlefield. By prioritizing the closure of Guantanamo Bay, this Administration continues to push a misguided foreign policy that further degrades American national security.” Congressman John Katko sits on the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the Western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ####
04.05.2016	Syracuse, NY – Joined today at Onondaga Community College by students and administrators from both public and private higher education institutions from across the 24th Congressional District, U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) hosted a roundtable discussion on making college more affordable and addressing the crushing burden of student debt. According to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, student loan debt in the United States currently totals 1.2 trillion dollars and has become the largest form of consumer debt other than mortgages. “Student loan debt is dragging down economic growth and keeping the American Dream out of reach for many young people. In this economy, new graduates are faced with many difficulties as they transition out of college and enter the workforce – and student loan debt is at the top of that list,” said U.S. Representative John Katko at today’s roundtable. “While this problem will not be solved overnight, it is vital that we engage students and higher education institutions to explore potential solutions so that higher education can remain accessible to students from all backgrounds. I’m thankful for all of the students and administrators from around Central New York who have joined us today, and I’ll take what I’ve learned from our conversation to Washington.” In Congress, Representative Katko has cosponsored legislation to address the student loan crisis program by allowing increased refinancing of federal student loans, restoring bankruptcy rights to student loan borrowers, and expanding Pell Grants. “Addressing the high cost of college and the crushing burden of student loan debt requires innovative, thoughtful changes in policy and in student loan borrowing,” continued Congressman Katko. “In Congress, I’ve focused on three areas where I think we can come together in a bipartisan manner to make borrowing simpler and more manageable for students. First, student loan debt is uniquely difficult to discharge in cases of bankruptcy and personal hardship. Second, recent graduates are currently unable to refinance their student loans more than once. Finally, Pell Grants are currently only available to students during the Fall and Spring semesters, and unavailable to students who are working to complete their postsecondary education more quickly by taking courses during Summer semesters. Making changes in each of these areas will help reduce the heavy debt burden on students.” Specifically, Representative Katko has cosponsored: H.R. 499, the Discharge Student Loans in Bankruptcy Act, which effectively restores bankruptcy rights to student loan borrowers. Unlike credit card, auto loan, or mortgage debt, student loan debt currently cannot be discharged in bankruptcy. H.R. 649, the Student Loan Refinancing Act, which would allow individuals to refinance their federal student loans (Direct Loans, Direct PLUS Loans, and Direct Consolidation Loans) more than once. Doing so would enable borrowers to take advantage of lower interest rates during more favorable economic conditions. Moreover, refinanced rates would be fixed, protecting them from interest rate hikes when economic conditions worsen. H.R. 3180, Flexible Pell Grants for 21st Century Students Act, expanding the eligibility window for Pell Grants so that students may take advantage of them during summer months. These grants are currently only available for qualifying students during the Fall and Spring semesters. Expanding this program would allow students to complete a postsecondary education more quickly and at a lower cost. Representative Katko was joined for today’s conversation by students and administrators from Le Moyne College, Wells College, SUNY Oswego, SUNY ESF, Onondaga Community College and Cayuga Community College. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the Western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ####
04.04.2016	Syracuse, N.Y. – As opioid and heroin related deaths in New York continue to climb, U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative John Katko along with families and advocates are calling on Congress to pass bipartisan legislation to help end the opioid epidemic. Senator Gillibrand introduced the Preventing Overprescribing for Pain Act, legislation that would require the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to issue guidelines for the safe prescribing of opioids for the treatment of acute pain. The CDC recently finalized guidelines for opioids prescribed to treat chronic pain. However, many individuals become addicted to opioids after taking prescriptions for acute pain. Acute pain includes pain following a broken bone, wisdom tooth extraction, or other surgeries, whereas chronic pain is long-term pain that can last weeks, months, or years. According to the most recent data from the New York State Department of Health, opioid related deaths in Central New York have increased by 2,900 percent from 2 deaths in 2004 to 60 deaths in 2013. 51 people die each day in the United States from overdoses related to prescription opioids according to the CDC, nearly five times the number in 1999. Between 1999 and 2010, there was a 400% increase in sales of prescription opioid pain relievers in the United States. However, in that same period, there was no increase in the amount of pain Americans reported, according to the CDC. “As the opioid epidemic continues to grow in New York and across the country, we can’t wait any longer to take action and curb this growing crisis,” said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. “Part of this epidemic can be attributed to some medical providers over-prescribing opioids. When someone gets a tooth out and only needs medication for three days - why are they sent home from the doctor’s office with 30 Percocet? I’ve introduced bipartisan legislation that will help fix this problem by requiring the CDC to issue clear guidelines to help medical providers safely prescribe opioids for these common types of acute pain. I am urging my colleagues in Congress to pass this measure to help curb the growing opioid crisis.” “There is no question that the heroin and opioid epidemic has hit Central New York hard. Far too many lives have been lost to opioid and heroin addiction, and families throughout our community are struggling to find treatment for their loves ones,” said U.S. Representative John Katko. “Heroin addiction all too often begins with the misuse of prescription drugs, turning to crippling abuse and ending all too often in death. That’s why I’m proud to stand with Sen. Gillibrand today in support her bipartisan, commonsense proposal to help prevent new cases of opioid addiction, while we continue to work to expand access to treatment for individuals who are already addicted.” “It’s often said too much of a good thing is not good. The overprescribing of opioid base pain killers is helping to fuel a deadly epidemic never before seen,” said John Socci, Father and Member of Heroin Epidemic Action League (HEAL). “Senator Gillibrand’s proposed legislation is a courageous first step in addressing this issue.” “As the region’s only hospital-based provider of substance abuse treatment services, Crouse Hospital is on the front lines of the opioid abuse issue, and we strongly support the establishment of guidelines for prescribing opioids to treat acute pain. Senators Gillibrand and Capito are to be commended for encouraging the CDC to address this important issue, which crosses all socio-economic lines,” said Monika Taylor, Director of Chemical Dependency Treatment Services for Crouse Hospital. “The only way the opiate epidemic is going to be addressed for the long term is through the collaborative efforts of all levels of government and community. Policy change has been proven to be one of the most successful prevention strategies and ultimately will have the most significant impact for the individuals we serve,” said Beth Hurny, Executive Director, Prevention Network. The Facts On the Growing Opioid Epidemic: Nearly 2 million Americans abuse or are addicted to prescription opioids, and nearly half a million more are addicted to heroin according to SAMHSA. In 2014, nearly 19,000 people died in the United States from overdose related to opioid pain relievers, nearly five times the number in 1999 according to CDC. The increase in opioid addiction is linked to an increase in opioid prescriptions. Between 1999 and 2010, there was a 400% increase in sales of prescription opioid pain relievers in the U.S. Over the same time period, there has not been an increased in the amount of pain Americans report according to CDC. In 2012, health care providers wrote 259 million prescriptions for opioid pain relievers – enough for every American adult to have a bottle of pills according to CDC. Teenagers who receive an opioid prescription by 12th grade are 33% more likely to abuse opioids after high school. The risk for opioid abuse is even higher among teenagers who report little to no previous use of illicit substances according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse. Of teenagers who abuse opioids, roughly half obtained the opioids from a friend of family member, according to research by the National Institute on Drug Abuse. In a paper published by the American Dental Association in 2011, 64% of dentists surveyed preferred prescribing hydrocodone with acetaminophen for a third molar extraction, for an average of 20 pills per prescription. 4 in 5 individuals who use heroin report prior abuse of prescription opioids, according to SAMHSA. ###
03.30.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he will host his fourth public town hall event focused on combating heroin and synthetic drug abuse. The event will be held next Monday, April 4 at 6:30 p.m. at Cayuga Community College’s Fulton Campus. Like his past events, Representative Katko will be joined by a panel of community advocates and parents, healthcare professionals, educators, prevention and treatment specialists, as well as law enforcement and first responders to answer community questions. “Heroin and synthetic drug abuse has hit our region especially hard – and in Oswego County, I’ve heard from countless families who are struggling to find treatment,” said U.S. Representative John Katko. “These important conversations help to educate our entire community on the dangers associated with heroin and synthetic drug abuse and provide resources for parents, young people, and those struggling with addiction.” The event is free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Details are as follows: A Conversation on Heroin and Synthetic Drug Abuse in FultonMonday, April 4th at 6:30 p.m. Cayuga Community College Fulton Campus CNY Arts Center, Inc. 11 River Glen Drive in Fulton The meeting will be moderated by Oswego County District Attorney Greg Oakes. Panelists will include: Assistant Fulton Fire Chief David Eiffe Fulton City School District Superintendent William Lynch Jiancheng Huang, Director of Public Health, Oswego County Health Department Michael Batstone, Investigator with the Oswego County Drug Task Force Monika Taylor, LCSW, CASAC, Director of Chemical Dependency Treatment Services for Crouse Hospital Gina Atkins, RN, Associate Administrator for Behavioral Services at Oswego Health Penny Morley, MS, CAS, Prevention Services Director at Farnham Family Services & Member of the Coalition to Combat Substance Abuse Alan Francis, MS, Chemical Dependency Counselor for County of Oswego Council on Alcoholism and Addictions, Inc. (COCOAA) Teresa Woolson, President of the VOW Foundation & Member of the Coalition to Combat Substance Abuse Cori Welch, Leader of “Addiction Awareness, Sharing Without Shame” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.24.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – Following the arrest of a flight attendant in New York who has been accused of using her secure access credentials to smuggle 70 pounds of cocaine through airport security in Los Angeles, U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today stressed the need for the U.S. Senate to act on his bipartisan legislation which has already passed the U.S. House of Representatives, H.R. 3102, the Airport Access Control Security Improvement Act. Katko’s bipartisan legislation to improve airport access control measures passed the U.S. House of Representatives last fall, and was produced in response to several incidents over the course of the past year and a half in which airport and airline employees used security credentials to bypass security screening and transport prohibited items, including illegal drugs and guns, into secure areas of airports and onto commercial flights. “It is unacceptable that a flight attendant in Los Angeles was able to bypass security and smuggle drugs into the secure area of an airport,” said Congressman John Katko. “Moreover, it demonstrates the serious need in this country to bolster our efforts to monitor and detect insider threats at airports. The bipartisan legislation that I’ve introduced and passed through the House would increase random screenings and help ensure that the individuals who work for airports or airlines are held to the same scrutiny as the traveling public.” The Airport Access Control Security Improvement Act streamlines and strengthens the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) screening procedures for airport and airline employees by requiring the TSA Administrator to establish a risk-based, intelligence-driven screening model that subjects employees to more frequent, more randomized security screenings and minimizes the number of employee entry and exit points. It also directs the TSA Administrator to determine whether TSA should expand the number of criminal offenses that disqualify an individual from obtaining a job that requires access to secure areas of airports, as well as to determine whether TSA should lengthen the “look-back period” when reviewing an individual’s criminal history. Specifically, this legislation: Requires TSA to develop procedures for risk-based screening of airport and airline employees. Makes critical reforms to the employee screening process to ensure those who have access to our nation’s airports do not pose a threat. Provides additional law-enforcement resources to screen employees. Establishes an oversight framework to ensure Congress can closely monitor improvements surrounding employee vetting and screening Codifies an important set of recommendations offered by the Aviation Security Advisory Committee (ASAC), which includes industry stakeholders and TSA. Over the last few months, ASAC has conducted a review of these issues. “Threats to our aviation sector are very real, and today’s news is yet another indication that we must redouble our efforts to ensure that airport and airline employees cannot smuggle guns, illegal substances, or other dangerous items into secure areas of airports and onto flights,” continued Katko. “This legislation presents commonsense reforms to address insider threats at airports nationwide, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to move swiftly to pass this important legislation and to help keep American travelers safe.” Representative Katko chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee, which has sole jurisdiction over all Transportation Security Administration (TSA) security matters, including the security of passengers and cargo within the U.S. aviation system and TSA’s work to secure various modes of surface transportation such as mass transit systems, railroads, trucks, and pipelines. Reps. Katko has led the Committee’s effort this Congress to address employee access control issues. This oversight has complemented a broader and ongoing review of TSA’s operations, policies and procedures. The Subcommittee’s oversight over these instances has revealed shortcomings in employee vetting, improper use of employee credentials, and a range of challenges that have inhibited employee screening. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Following yesterday’s terrorist attacks in Brussels, the House Committee on Homeland Security today passed out of committee bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24), H.R. 4698, the Securing Aviation from Foreign Entry Points and Guarding Airports Through Enhanced Security Act (SAFE GATES), to improve passenger and airline safety at foreign airports that have direct flights to the United States. Representative Katko’s legislation is now headed to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for a vote. The legislation, introduced by Representative Katko earlier this month, is the result of tremendous bipartisan efforts on the House Homeland Security Committee to address insider threats both at domestic airports and international airports with direct flights to the United States. “In the wake of yesterday’s horrific attacks in Brussels, there is no question that terrorists remain committed to attacking aviation. As Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee, I have looked extensively at insider threats at airports both domestically and abroad, and as a result, we’ve acted to pass security reforms. Still, we must redouble our efforts in Congress to keep our country safe in this heightened terrorist threat environment,” said U.S. Representative John Katko. “Today the House Homeland Security Committee passed important, bipartisan legislation that I introduced to help keep our country safe by improving security at foreign airports with direct flights to the United States. This bill will help ensure that individuals traveling from these airports are held to the same scrutiny as individuals within our country.” Combining Representative Katko’s work with the Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel and the Transportation Security subcommittee, the Securing Aviation from Foreign Entry Points and Guarding Airports through Enhanced Security Act: • Directs the TSA to conduct and implement a ‘security coordination enhancement plan’ to improve passenger and airline safety at Last Point of Departure (LPD) Airports, airports that have direct flights to the United States. • Authorizes the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to donate security equipment to foreign LPD Airports. • Functions to increase cooperation between partner nations to ensure safe skies. • If TSA finds that a LPD Airport does not meet requisite standards, TSA will have the authority to quickly fill security gaps with screening assistance. • Requires an assessment of foreign cargo security programs to ensure that our federal law enforcement agencies, as well as Congress, are informed of the current security environment to prevent any shipment of nefarious materials via air cargo. Congressman John Katko serves on the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He led the Committee’s bipartisan Task Force on Combating Terrorist & Foreign Fighter Travel, which produced 32 findings and 50 recommendations on combating terrorist travel. More than half of these recommendations are on their way to becoming law. Since being elected to represent Central New York in Congress, Congressman John Katko has fought through gridlock to deliver results for his constituents and has focused extensively on improving airport security. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement regarding the terror attacks in Brussels this morning: “My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Belgium, and especially with the victims and their families, following this morning’s horrific terrorist attacks. “While the details are still emerging, these attacks are yet another tragic reminder of the heightened terrorist threat environment and the grave need to address vulnerabilities in our international security. As Chairman of both the House Homeland Security Committee’s Foreign Fighter Task Force and Subcommittee on Transportation Security, I have looked extensively at airport security vulnerabilities and worked both to combat foreign terrorist travel and to close global counterterrorism gaps. We have moved important reforms through the House, but it is clear that we must redouble our efforts in Congress. “Today, we stand with Brussels. Now, more than ever, we must remain committed to working with Brussels and all of our international partners in their efforts to counter violent extremism and to fight global terrorism.” Congressman John Katko serves on the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He led the Committee’s bipartisan Task Force on Combating Terrorist & Foreign Fighter Travel, which produced 32 findings and 50 recommendations on combating terrorist travel. More than half of these recommendations are on their way to becoming law.
03.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he has introduced bipartisan legislation, the Securing Aviation from Foreign Entry Points and Guarding Airports through Enhanced Security Act (H.R. 4698) to improve passenger and airline safety at Last Point of Departure airports, foreign airports that have direct flights to the United States. U.S. Rep. Bill Keating (MA-9) joined Rep. Katko in introducing this legislation. Following several high profile breaches at airports nationwide where guns and illegaldrug trafficking schemes were exposed, Representative Katko led the House Homeland Security Committee’s efforts to examine these breaches and to improve airport access controls and employee vetting throughout the United States. However, the October 2015 downing of Metrojet Flight 9268 highlighted airport vulnerabilities from insider threats overseas. “In my role as Chairman of the Transportation Security subcommittee, I’ve looked extensively at insider threats at airports both domestically and abroad,” said Representative Katko. “In order to keep our country safe, we must ensure that individuals traveling from last point of departure airports are held to the same scrutiny as individuals within our country. Today’s legislation is a result of tremendous bipartisan efforts on the House Homeland Security Committee to improve airport access controls and employee vetting both throughout theUnited States and at foreign airports that have direct flights to the United States.” Combining Representative Katko’s work with the Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel and the Transportation Security subcommittee investigation on airport security, the Securing Aviation from Foreign Entry Points and Guarding Airports through Enhanced Security Act: · Directs the TSA to conduct and implement a ‘security coordination enhancement plan’ to improve passenger and airline safety at Last Point of Departure (LPD) Airports, airports that have direct flights to the United States. · Authorizes the Transportation Security Administration to donate security equipment to foreign LPD Airports. · Functions to increase cooperation between partner nations to ensure safe skies. · If TSA finds that a LPD airport does not meet requisite standards, TSA will have the authority to quickly fill security gaps with screening assistance. · Requires an assessment of foreign cargo security programs to ensure that our federal law enforcement agencies, as well as Congress, are informed of the current security environment to prevent any shipment of nefarious materials via air cargo. Since being elected to represent Central New York in Congress, Congressman John Katko has fought through gridlock todeliver results for his constituents. In a time of divided government, he has introduced 21 bills in the U.S. House of Representatives, with 8 passing the House and 2 signed into law. As Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee, he has held 13 hearings to date, more than any subcommittee Chairman on the House Homeland Security Committee. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.09.2016	LIVERPOOL, NEW YORK – Standing this afternoon at Pioneer Warehousing & Distribution, LLC in Liverpool, U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) announced the introduction of the Working Parents Flexibility Act, bipartisan legislation that he recently introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives with U.S. Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9) to support Central New York working families without placing a burden on businesses. Katko was joined in announcing his legislation by many local business owners, Chambers of Commerce, and working parents. In this economy, it has become increasingly difficult for Central New York parents to balance work and family. By allowing men and women to contribute money, tax-free, into a Parental Savings Account, Representative Katko’s legislation addresses these difficulties. The Working Parents Flexibility Act provides a savings vehicle for parents, empowering men and women to save for the first year of parenthood without placing a burden on small businesses or taxpayers. “In order to support Central New York families and our local workforce, we must act to address the hardships facing new families and do more to ensure that hardworking moms and dads can afford to stay home with their newborn children,” said Congressman Katko. “But we must do so without implementing another tax or burdening small businesses with another mandate. That’s why I’ve taken action to introduce bipartisan legislation that will allow families an individualized, flexible, affordable, and optional method to start saving for parenthood.” Katko’s legislation provides an optional, private alternative to addressing parental leave: Allows men and women and their employer, to affordably contribute pre-tax income or wages into a “Parental Savings Account.” Funds within the account can be withdrawn, tax-free, from the account within one year of the account owner giving birth to or adopting a child to help pay for expenses associated with parenthood, such as childcare and living expenses. Encourages flexibility by allowing accounts owners to contribute and invest as much or as little as he or she sees fit. The account has no time or age constraints, in order to accommodate multiple children or starting a family later in life. If left unused, funds can be rolled into a qualifying retirement, 529 College Savings Account, or 529 ABLE Account without facing tax penalties. Incentivizes businesses to recruit young professionals and to partner with employees in saving for early parenthood without burdensome regulations. By using compound interest, and keeping contributions tax free, account holders can see their savings grow. Congressman Katko’s proposal works to bridge the gap and provide a compromise that Central New York employees and businesses can get behind. At today’s event, Lisa Conway, Vice President & Owner of Pioneer Warehousing and Distribution said, “Our company’s goal is provide custom solutions to our clients while saving them time and money. The people that make this possible are either standing behind me or working hard throughout this building. We have a strong philosophy, and it’s simple. Taking care of our employees is number one. Employees are the forefront of this business and without their help, Pioneer wouldn’t be what it is today – celebrating 40 years and growing! After reading Representative Katko’s proposal, I was overjoyed. Not only do I run this company, but I am also a mother to three beautiful children. I know the costs associated with being a parent to a newborn – from diapers, to clothing, to formula, to daycare. Many parents are not adequately prepared to survive on a reduced income while meeting the additional costs of a new baby. Allowing men and women to affordably contribute their pre-tax income into a parental leave savings account is a bill that I can truly stand being with no question. This legislation is certainly a step in the right direction for new parents and a great way for businesses to retain and incentivize our employees.” "I care about my employees and their families and I want to help. I know the benefits a plan like this brings to parents, children and society as a whole. And for the first time, because of Congressman John Katko I can say I can actually be part of the solution to the problem! I fully endorse the Congressman’s proposal,” said Mary Anne Giacona, founder and CEO of The Center in Auburn. “It is truly a win/ win plan that gives both the employee and employer the discretion to contribute tax free dollars for parental leave without burdensome mandates to business owners and it fosters accountability, planning and flexibility without tax penalties. In my opinion it doesn’t get any better than that!" "I am proud to support Representative Katko in seeking legislation to provide affordable, personalized, paid parental leave without burdening businesses,” said Eileen Brophy, President of Brophy Services, Inc. “Allowing workers to save for parental leave through a pre-tax account similar to a health savings account is a great way for employees to save a little each week if they are anticipating the birth or adoption of a child. The option to then roll the account into a college savings or retirement account without tax penalties is a win, win, win for both business and employees. As a small business owner, we want to support programs for our employees. If we can do that without heavy burdens on businesses to monitor and report then that allows us to remain competitive in our market." Stella Penizotto, Co-owner of Shining Stars Daycare, Inc. said, “I am in support of Congressman Katko's Working Parents Flexibility Act. This is a bill that addresses the needs of parents, employees and business owners. Parents should be able to stay home with their newborn or newly adopted child in those important first crucial months without the stress of how to make ends meet. Employees need an affordable way to put money aside to help accomplish this and the bill also provides alternatives if all the funds are not used such as rolling the funds into a college or retirement fund. Employers need a program that is not burdensome to implement and sustain. This bill addresses all of this! That is why I support John Katko's bill. His bill ‘thinks outside the box!’” Representative Katko was also joined in announcing his proposal by representatives from ASR Systems Group, Inc., City Electric Company, Inc., Bosco & Geers, Mello Velo Bicycle Shop & Café, and Central Building, LLC. In addition to the support of many local businesses, Katko’s legislation has earned the support of the Cayuga County Chamber of Commerce as well as the Greater Oswego-Fulton Chamber of Commerce. Andrew Fish, Executive Director of Cayuga County Chamber of Commerce said, “Workforce development and employee retention is a struggle that businesses face in all industries, particularly here in Central New York. The Working Parents Flexibility Act offers employers the opportunity to support their employees and offer great benefits without additional and costly mandates and regulations. This legislation strikes the often difficult balance between protecting the working family and protecting the businesses that employ them. We are grateful that Congressman Katko developed this flexible parental leave option, reaching across the aisle, to bring forth commonsense legislation that will help secure a healthy business environment throughout our region.” “The Greater Fulton-Oswego Chamber is proud to support Representative Katko in introducing this legislation,” stated Greater Fulton-Oswego Chamber Executive Director Greg Mills. “His proposal gives our local businesses an incentive to attract and retain young talent – and does so without imposing a harmful new tax or regulation on small businesses or employees.” “This fiscally responsible proposal provides hardworking families in Central New York with an affordable, personalized way to provide for basic needs of a family during the first year of parenthood, and I’m grateful to have the support of so many in our community,” concluded Representative Katko. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ####
03.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This morning, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) delivered remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to raise awareness for Vera House, Inc.’s 22nd annual White Ribbon Campaign. Video of Rep. Katko’s remarks can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak out about an important issue that faces our society – domestic violence and sexual abuse. “Violence against women is a worldwide but under examined problem. Sadly, we are still far from a world where women are free from the threat of harassment, battering and sexual assault. “Consider some of these statistics. According to the FBI, a woman is battered every 15 seconds. 2-4 million American women are abused each year. And up to 50% of homeless women and children in this country are fleeing domestic violence. “Our country has a moral obligation to stand up against those who exploit their power to commit violence against women and children. “In an effort to raise awareness and put an end to domestic violence and sexual abuse, Vera House in Syracuse will be kicking off the White Ribbon Campaign. “The White Ribbon Campaign is one of the largest efforts in the world to prevent and end domestic violence and sexual assault. It will begin this Friday, March 4th and run through March 31st. “During the month of March, thousands of my constituents in central New York will be wearing a white ribbon or a white wristband to raise awareness about domestic violence and sexual abuse. Wearing the white ribbon demonstrates a personal pledge to never commit, condone, or remain silent about violence against women or children. “I encourage my colleagues to join me and the 24th District of New York in wearing a white ribbon to support survivors of abuse, and to stop the scourge of violence against women.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.29.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he will host a town hall event focused on combating the devastating heroin epidemic next Tuesday, March 8th at 6:30 p.m. at Cayuga Community College. Representative Katko will be joined by a panel of community advocates, healthcare professionals, educators, prevention and treatment specialists, as well as law enforcement and first responders to answer community questions. “There is no question that the heroin epidemic has taken a toll on our community,” said Representative John Katko. “In Cayuga County, we’ve heard far too many heartbreaking stories from families who have lost loved ones and from parents who are struggling to find treatment for their children. I look forward to continuing the public dialogue on this devastating epidemic in Auburn with our local healthcare providers, prevention and treatment specialists, grassroots community advocates, and law enforcement.” The event is free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Details are as follows: Addressing the Heroin Epidemic in Cayuga County Tuesday, March 8th at 6:30 p.m. Cayuga Community College Student Lounge Room 197 Franklin Street in Auburn The meeting will be moderated by Cayuga County Sheriff David Gould. Panelists will include: Cayuga County District Attorney Jon Budelmann City of Auburn Fire Chief Jeff Dygert Monika Taylor, LCSW, CASAC, Director of Behavioral Health at Crouse Hospital Kevin Hares, Executive Director of Confidential Help for Alcohol & Drugs Inc. (CHAD) Ray Bizzari, Director of Community Services, Cayuga County Department of Mental Health, Cayuga County Department of Social Services Amy Cox, Health & Physical Education Educator at Auburn High School Kevin Jones, Heroin Epidemic Action League (HEAL) Lynette Wilson, Parent and Community Advocate John Socci, Parent and Community Advocate Rep. Katko has previously public town hall meetings focused on addressing the heroin epidemic in the City of Oswego and in Dewitt. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
02.25.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – With the support of both local and national animal advocacy groups, U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today introduced the Help Extract Animals from Red Tape (HEART) Act, bipartisan legislation to expedite the disposition of animals seized in animal fighting or gambling cases. The reforms will reduce the length of time animals are held in shelters and ensure that the individuals responsible for the animals are held responsible for their cost of care. Currently, when an animal is seized under federal animal fighting and gambling statutes, it is treated as evidence by our justice system. This requires that the animal is held by the government at a temporary shelter until courts determined the animal’s disposition. Lengthy forfeiture cases often leave abused animals in shelters for months while ownership is resolved and the cost of care for the animals during this time period is rarely, if ever, reimbursed. Instead, taxpayer dollars and nonprofit animal protection agencies are left covering the bill for the care of these abused animals as the court case drags on. “As a former federal prosecutor I recognize that in cases that involve senseless cruelty to animals, the system unfairly places the financial responsibility of care for abused animals on the American taxpayer. In Central New York, this unjust burden is placed on many of our local shelters and nonprofit organizations who work tirelessly to provide safety, shelter and care for abused animals,” said Representative Katko. “I’m proud to stand alongside these organizations in introducing this legislation, which maintains important due process protections and shifts the cost of care for animals seized under federal animal fighting and gambling statutes from the taxpayer to the individual responsible.” "Cuse Pit Crew applauds Representative Katko for drafting this important bill that will provide a safety net for dogs saved from organized animal fighting operations,” stated Stefanie Heath-Higgins, Cuse Pit Crew Founder & President. “We have seen dogs, mostly pit bulls, after they have been used for fighting or bait dogs. They are mentally, emotionally and physically debilitated from the abuse and horrors of being forced to fight. Creating a process that will save these victims from languishing during often drawn out court proceedings will undoubtedly benefit the dogs overall well-being. Furthermore, it will increase their opportunity for adoption into a loving home." Kathy Gilmour, Director of Helping Hounds Dog Rescue said, “The HEART act gets right to the core of the problems in our current system and addresses all of the issues that currently work against the innocent victims of these crimes. The brutality of animal fighting sports and the abuse they endure should not be compounded by a system that shows no compassion or urgency to their needs after they are rescued. Helping Hounds Dog Rescue stands behind this legislation and see it as a positive step to recognizing we must do more to ensure they have every chance of being placed into loving, adoptive homes.” “Animal fighting victims have suffered enough at the hands of their abusers,” said Nancy Perry, senior vice president of ASPCA Government Relations. “They shouldn’t suffer further while caught in the red tape of the federal forfeiture system. The ASPCA applauds Representatives Katko and Chu for their leadership in streamlining the process to get these victims of cruelty rehabilitated and into loving homes.” “I’m appreciative for the many animal advocates – both in Central New York and on the national level – who brought this issue to my attention,” continued Representative Katko. “With this legislation, we’ve streamlined the process so that our local shelters can more quickly provide rehabilitation services and find loving homes for victimized animals.” Importantly, this legislation: Prioritizes the care of victimized animals by reducing the period of time that the Government has to notify interested parties following the seizure of animals under the federal animal fighting or gambling statues from 60 days to 30 days. Gives judges the discretion to require that the cost of care for seized animals be paid during the period of seizure by the individual who is seeking ownership of the animal. Requires immediate forfeiture of the animals to the seizing agency if the court-ordered payment is not posted. If the owner prevails in the forfeiture proceedings, requires that the full payment be returned. Representative Katko was joined by Representative Judy Chu (CA-27) in introducing this bipartisan legislation. Congresswoman Chu stated, “Animal cruelty such as dog fighting is a particularly heinous crime against a defenseless creature. Our government is rightfully vigilant and active in shutting down these rings, but when the animals are seized, the cost and care falls on local shelters. Court proceedings can take over a year, which means the cost of doing the right thing can total millions of dollars. Additionally, shelters are unable to rehabilitate these animals until the proceedings have completed, which leaves animals stressed and hostile. It’s unjust that taxpayers and local shelters are picking up the tab for the care of these animals. This bill would help remedy that. I am so pleased to be able work bipartisanly with my colleague, Rep. Katko, to help keep animals safe and place responsibility where it belongs.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.25.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today issued the following statement regarding the President’s plan to close Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility: “The Administration’s irresponsible and ill-considered proposal to close down the Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility will make our country, and the world, less safe. I stand unequivocally opposed to bringing hardened terrorists to our shores, or to surrendering custody of these individuals, who have sought to harm our troops and nation. This plan does nothing to address how future detainees might be handled, and leaves far too many questions unanswered on the handling of current detainees. “The President should work with Congress on addressing the international terror threat rather than forcing this vague, unwise, and unworkable proposal that would harm our ability to deal with terrorists. Congress has been clear on this issue for many years – we have not, and will not support, moving these detainees to the United States. “This proposal should not be enacted, and I will stand in firm opposition.” Congressman John Katko sits on the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
02.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) this evening announced that two bipartisan bills that he authored, the National Strategy to Combat Terrorist Travel Act and the Transportation Security Administration Reform and Improvement Act, have both passed the U.S. House of Representatives. Since being elected to represent Central New York inCongress, Representative Katko has introduced 18 bills in the U.S. House ofRepresentatives, with tonight’s bills as Katko’s seventh and eighth to pass the House. As Chair of the House Homeland Security Committee’s bipartisan Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel, Representative Katko has led the Committee’s effort to examine the evolving threat posed by extremists fighting overseas. Following an extensive six month review, the Task Force released a comprehensive assessment on U.S. government efforts to counter terrorist travel. “Our Task Force took an in depth look at the surging threat of terrorist and foreign fighter travel, and we found that the United States lacks a coherent national strategy for keeping terrorists from infiltrating our country and crisscrossing the globe undetected,” said Representative Katko following the passage of today’s bills. “Today, the House passed legislation that I introduced to require a more substantive strategy from this Administration in order toprotect Americans both at home and abroad.” The Task Force’s final report outlined over 50 recommendations for improving national security. To date, the House Homeland Security Committee has acted legislatively on almost half, including the introduction and passage of the National Strategy to Combat Terrorist Travel Act. This legislation, which passed the House just three weeks after introduction, requires the creation an “implementation plan” from the President in order to ensure that our defenses against terrorist travel are streamlined and that existing security gaps are closed. House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul said, “I commend Representative Katko for these strong, bipartisan bills and for his continued national-security leadership in Congress. The legislation he has authored will help close security vulnerabilities and keep our country safe in this high threat environment. His bill requiring a National Strategy to Combat Terrorist Travel is badly needed. Without such a plan, we run the risk of terrorists slipping through the cracks and entering our country, undetected. Representative Katko’s legislation will also help improve airport security at a time when extremists continue to target our aviation sector. We need these bills, and I urge the Senate to vote to send them to the President’s desk.” The House also passed another bipartisan measure introduced by Katko, the Transportation Security Administration Reform and Improvement Act. This legislation ensures several Congressional oversight priorities for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) are addressed, including the authorization of the PreCheck program, the advancement of risk-based security initiatives, the enhancement of aviation worker vetting, and the improvement of airport screening technologies. As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation Security Subcommittee, Representative Katko has worked tirelessly to conduct rigorous oversight of the troubled TSA and to improve the efficiency of agency’s programs in order to improve travel safety for the American public. “In a time of divided government, I am committed to fighting through gridlock and delivering results for Central New York. I’m proud to have had my 7th and 8th bills pass the U.S. House of Representatives this evening with bipartisan support,” concluded Representative Katko. “These measures will help keep our community and our country safe and I urge the Senate to act swiftly to consider both pieces of legislation.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) this evening announced that two bipartisan bills that he authored, the National Strategy to Combat Terrorist Travel Act and the Transportation Security Administration Reform and Improvement Act, have both passed the U.S. House of Representatives. Since being elected to represent Central New York inCongress, Representative Katko has introduced 18 bills in the U.S. House ofRepresentatives, with tonight’s bills as Katko’s seventh and eighth to pass the House. As Chair of the House Homeland Security Committee’s bipartisan Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel, Representative Katko has led the Committee’s effort to examine the evolving threat posed by extremists fighting overseas. Following an extensive six month review, the Task Force released a comprehensive assessment on U.S. government efforts to counter terrorist travel. “Our Task Force took an in depth look at the surging threat of terrorist and foreign fighter travel, and we found that the United States lacks a coherent national strategy for keeping terrorists from infiltrating our country and crisscrossing the globe undetected,” said Representative Katko following the passage of today’s bills. “Today, the House passed legislation that I introduced to require a more substantive strategy from this Administration in order toprotect Americans both at home and abroad.” The Task Force’s final report outlined over 50 recommendations for improving national security. To date, the House Homeland Security Committee has acted legislatively on almost half, including the introduction and passage of the National Strategy to Combat Terrorist Travel Act. This legislation, which passed the House just three weeks after introduction, requires the creation an “implementation plan” from the President in order to ensure that our defenses against terrorist travel are streamlined and that existing security gaps are closed. House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul said, “I commend Representative Katko for these strong, bipartisan bills and for his continued national-security leadership in Congress. The legislation he has authored will help close security vulnerabilities and keep our country safe in this high threat environment. His bill requiring a National Strategy to Combat Terrorist Travel is badly needed. Without such a plan, we run the risk of terrorists slipping through the cracks and entering our country, undetected. Representative Katko’s legislation will also help improve airport security at a time when extremists continue to target our aviation sector. We need these bills, and I urge the Senate to vote to send them to the President’s desk.” The House also passed another bipartisan measure introduced by Katko, the Transportation Security Administration Reform and Improvement Act. This legislation ensures several Congressional oversight priorities for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) are addressed, including the authorization of the PreCheck program, the advancement of risk-based security initiatives, the enhancement of aviation worker vetting, and the improvement of airport screening technologies. As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation Security Subcommittee, Representative Katko has worked tirelessly to conduct rigorous oversight of the troubled TSA and to improve the efficiency of agency’s programs in order to improve travel safety for the American public. “In a time of divided government, I am committed to fighting through gridlock and delivering results for Central New York. I’m proud to have had my 7th and 8th bills pass the U.S. House of Representatives this evening with bipartisan support,” concluded Representative Katko. “These measures will help keep our community and our country safe and I urge the Senate to act swiftly to consider both pieces of legislation.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives John Katko (NY-24) and Richard Hanna (NY-22), both members of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure, this afternoon announced that The Aviation Innovation, Reform & Reauthorization Act (“AIRR Act”), a long-term aviation bill, yesterday passed out of Committee after a 9.5 hour debate during which nearly 100 amendments were considered, and is now headed to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for a vote. Significantly, this legislation expands the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) Test Sites and promotes their expanded use, which is crucial for growing the region’s economy. NUAIR Alliance, which has teamed with Griffiss International Airport in Rome, New York, is one of six FAA Designated Test Sites. With the use and economic investment in UAS on the rise globally, Upstate New York is poised to continue its development as a competitive, economic hub for innovation and research in the industry. With the advocacy of Reps. Katko and Hanna, the legislation includes the following important components for Central and Upstate New York: • Reauthorizes the Griffiss NUAIR test site for 6 years. The 2012 FAA Modernization and Reform Act authorized six test sites to test integrating UAS into the national airspace, which NUAIR successfully competed for and won. This bill ensures NUAIR can continue its work as a leading innovator in UAS technology and integration. • Makes significant strides in safely and efficiently integrating unmanned aircraft systems into the National Airspace. This legislation promotes greater utilization of test ranges, like NUAIR, to ensure safe integration of UAS into national airspace. It also makes the permitting process less burdensome for commercial use of UAS, fostering innovation and growth in this budding industry. • Prioritizes UAS work already underway at Griffiss, including studying sense-and-avoid technology and low-altitude UAS traffic management (UTM) systems. • Creates risk-based UAS permitting program. Directs the FAA to move away from its cumbersome one-size-fits-all to allow commercial and recreational drone users easier access to the national airspace under certain low-risk conditions. • Creates a remote air traffic control tower pilot program to study technology that would give smaller, remote airports that currently do not have air traffic control towers the opportunity to obtain affordable and safe air traffic control. The inclusion of this language in today’s legislation has the potential to grow businesses based in Central and Upstate New York that produce this technology. “The unmanned aerial systems industry has the potential to generate great economic growth in our region,” said Representative John Katko. “With one of six designated FAA test sites right in our backyard at Griffiss International Airport, this legislation takes significant strides to grow our region into a national research center as we work to integrate UAS into the national airspace. Moreover, this transformative legislation makes critical updates to ensure that our country’s aviation system is safe, modern, and competitive for all who depend on it.” “Creating these test sites in the 2012 FAA bill is among my proudest legislative accomplishments,” said Representative Richard Hanna. “I am confident that Upstate New York, anchored by Griffiss Airport and the hub of advanced technology surrounding it, will emerge as the leading incubator for UAS innovation and integration as a result of the reauthorization and reforms included in the AIRR Act. I look forward to having a robust and open debate on the House floor in the coming weeks and getting this bill to the President’s desk.” “We are especially proud of the leadership demonstrated by Congressman Katko and Congressman Hanna by early-on recognizing the transformational economic opportunity for Upstate New York that is unmanned aerial systems. Their work to establish one of the six FAA Designated UAS Test Sites at Griffiss International Airport and to strengthen the UAS Test Site program in this year's FAA Re-Authorization will insure Central New York remains at the forefront of the industry," said Lawrence Brinker, Executive Director of the NUAIR Alliance. The long-term bill makes significant strides to enhance aviation safety, modernize our nation’s aviation system and airport infrastructure, replace the outdated Air Traffic Control system, and streamline processes to eliminate waste and duplicity and keep the United States competitive in this crucial economic sector. ####
02.09.2016	Syracuse, NY – Standing at Feldmeier Equipment, U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand along with U.S. Representative John Katko and local economic development leaders today announced the Senator’s bipartisan Made in America Manufacturing Communities Act legislation. Senator Gillibrand’s legislation would grow the manufacturing industry in Upstate New York by creating a permanent program that designates local regions as “Manufacturing Communities,” which would put them in the front of the line to receive federal economic development funding specifically for the purpose of investing in manufacturing. “Upstate New York has one of the greatest manufacturing traditions in the country, and we need to help ensure that our local communities have the chance to become leading national manufacturing hubs in the 21st Century,” said Senator Gillibrand. “This bipartisan legislation will unlock millions of dollars in federal economic development funds for smart investments in high impact projects and leverage public-private partnerships to help create good-paying manufacturing jobs, jumpstart new businesses, and grow our economy for years to come.” “Manufacturing is the backbone of Central New York’s economy. In order to move our region’s economy forward, we must work to move manufacturing forward,” said U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24). “This bipartisan, bicameral legislation does just that by ensuring that manufacturers in our region are able to compete for federal funding for education, modernization, and skills training for our workforce. I thank Senator Gillibrand for her bipartisan efforts on this legislation.” “Upstate New York has a proud history of being a manufacturing hub from its earliest days,” Rep. Richard Hanna said. “Over the years that edge dwindled and we saw stalled growth, but now we are back on the upswing with new interests in nanotechnology and other tech-related manufacturing fields. We have seen public dollars enhance private investments to translate into more jobs and a better local economy. I support this bill because our communities in Central New York and the Southern Tier can not only compete to be manufacturing hubs, but with an extra push can transform themselves into globally competitive markets.” “Feldmeier Equipment would like to thank Senator Gillibrand and Congressman Katko for their support of Upstate New York Manufacturing,” said Dave Pollock, Vice President of Sales for Feldmeier Equipment. “Feldmeier Equipment is a proud New York State company, making products locally, shipped all over the world, fabricated of raw materials made only in the USA. With their continued dedication to keep manufacturing in New York strong and their assistance in training and education we look forward to continued growth and success, and a very bright future.” MACNY President & CEO Randy Wolken stated, "It is well known that a robust Manufacturing sector is critical to our thriving economy. In order to grow our region, Government needs to create legislation that helps foster a friendlier business climate to allow our businesses and manufacturers to thrive. Senator Gillibrand is supporting this need as well as the manufacturing community through her "Made in America Manufacturing Communities Act." Senator Gillibrand's bill will allow access to federal funding for manufacturers and encourage them to make capital investments in their businesses that will help increase production and grow community-supporting jobs. “The Made In America Manufacturing Communities Act holds promise for regions like ours with strong manufacturing bases because it leverages communities’ existing strengths,” said Robert Simpson, President of CenterState CEO. "This bill's regionally-driven approach to strengthening U.S. manufacturing will support existing manufacturers and drive new opportunities for growth across our region." New York has struggled with manufacturing job losses despite manufacturing job growth in other areas of the country. To bolster more growth in the New York manufacturing industry, Senator Gillibrand’s bill would create a permanent program to competitively award regions with the “Manufacturing Community” designation. This designation would give these communities preferred consideration when applying for up to $1.3 billion in currently available federal economic development funding for manufacturing. This legislation encourages a regionally-driven approach to strengthening the manufacturing industry. To compete for funding through this program and earn the “Manufacturing Communities” designation, communities would create regional partnerships with key stakeholders such as local and state economic development officials, local governments, manufacturers, labor organizations, and higher education or other training providers. In order to earn the Manufacturing Communities designation, communities would demonstrate the significance of manufacturing in their region and develop strategies to utilize their “Manufacturing Communities” designation in making investments in six areas: Workforce training and retraining; Advanced research; Infrastructure and site development; Supply chain support; Promotion of exports and foreign direct investment; and Operational improvement and capital access for manufacturers that supports energy or process efficiency, equipment or facility upgrades, the development of business incubators, among other activities. Senator Gillibrand’s bipartisan legislation is cosponsored by Senators Mark Kirk (R-IL) and Jerry Moran (R-KS), and a bipartisan House version is led by U.S. Representative David Cicilline (D-RI), and is cosponsored by U.S. Representatives Richard Hanna (R-NY), Tom Reed (R-NY), and Tim Ryan (D-OH), and John Katko (R-NY). ###
02.06.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – This week, House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) announced that Congressman John Katko (NY-24) would deliver the Weekly Republican Address today, Saturday, February 6, 2016. In his address, Representative Katko, a former federal prosecutor and leader of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, discusses House Republicans’ efforts to keep Americans safe and ensure that a new law designed to strengthen our visa waiver program is properly enforced. “The first responsibility of the federal government is to keep the American people safe,” Speaker Ryan said. “John Katko has been at the forefront of congressional efforts to strengthen our nation's security. I appreciate him delivering our weekly address on this important issue.” The full text of Representative Katko’s address can be found below. Video of the weekly address can be found here, and audio is available here. Remarks of Rep. John Katko of New YorkWeekly Republican AddressWashington, DCFebruary 6, 2016 In today’s interconnected world, hundreds of thousands of people enter and leave our country every day. One of the greatest security challenges we face is eliminating vulnerabilities in our visa system so terrorists can’t slip into our country. In December, we passed a law to tighten the rules of our Visa Waiver Program so terrorists could not use it to come to the United States. The program allows people from certain countries to come here for up to 90 days without a visa. This is to make it easier for tourists and businesspeople from friendly countries like Britain to come here. And on the whole, the program works very well. But ISIS has been recruiting people from these very same countries. So as a precaution, we added a new rule: If you have traveled to a country with significant terrorist activity—like Iraq, Iran, or Sudan—any time after 2011, you are not eligible for the program and must apply for a visa. We negotiated this requirement with the administration, and the president signed it into law. Unfortunately, the administration is now carving loopholes into the law. Last month, the administration announced that it would grant waivers to people engaged in journalism, humanitarian work, or, for people traveling to Iraq or Iran, “legitimate business-related purposes.” These waivers have no basis in law. In fact, members of Congress explicitly rejected this idea when negotiating the bill with the administration. The bill we passed allows the secretary of Homeland Security to offer waivers for “law enforcement” or “national security” reasons only. But it is not at all clear how granting a waiver to a New York Times reporter is in our “law enforcement” or "national security" interests. That’s why Congress is pressing this administration for a full report on who exactly are getting these waivers. We expect, at a minimum, the name and nationality of each traveler; the explicit, detailed national security or law enforcement justification for granting the waiver; and the number of people who are asking for and using these waivers in each category. I am a former federal prosecutor, and I can tell you a law is only as good as how you enforce it. This is not a time to start lowering our guard. And we should not put Iran’s feelings before America’s security interests. This law is a common sense measure we need to keep us safe, and we House Republicans will do all we can to make sure the administration enforces it in full. Thank you. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) announced that two of his bipartisan pieces of legislation, theNational Strategy to Combat Terrorist Travel Act and the Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act, both passed out of the House Committee on Homeland Security and are headed to the floor of the House of Representatives for a vote. As Chair of the bipartisan Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, Representative Katko has led the House Homeland Security Committee’s effort to examine the evolving threat posed by extremists fighting overseas. Following an extensive six month review, the Task Force released a comprehensive assessment on U.S. government efforts to counter terrorist travel. Importantly, this report revealed the lack of a national strategy to combat terrorist travel, as well as an overall ineffectiveness to combat ISIS’s ability to radicalize disenfranchised people around the world. The failure to produce a national strategy to combat foreign fighters and terrorist travel leads to duplication, waste, and miscommunication. By articulating national security goals, the President, Congress, and federal law enforcement agencies will be able to respond to new and persistent threats. “Our Task Force found that our country lacks a comprehensive plan to address foreign fighter travel and to combat the surging threat of ISIS. It is clear that we must do more to protect Americans both at home and abroad,” said Representative Katko. “The pieces of legislation that I introduced today take important steps towards the development of a national strategy to address this threat, as well as to ensure that our government agencies collaborate to fight terrorism.” The Task Force outlined over 50 recommendations. As of today, the House Homeland Security Committee has acted legislatively on almost half of those recommendations in order to make our country safer. Details on Katko’s legislation can be found below: · H.R. 4408- National Strategy to Combat Terrorist Travel Act of 2016: Requires the creation of a National Strategy to Combat Terrorist Travel, requiring an “implementation plan” from the President to ensure that our defenses against terrorist travel are streamlined and that existing security gaps are closed. · H.R. 4407- Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act of 2016: Ensures that the Department of Homeland Security coordinates all of its counterterrorism efforts to limit duplication, inefficiency, andwaste. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.28.2016	Syracuse, NY – In a ceremony this morning at Hancock Field Air National Guard Base, U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) presented the Purple Heart Medal to the family of the late John D. Smith for wounds sustained while serving in World War I in Vele River, France. In October 2015, upon discovering that his late grandfather’s discharge papers showed injuries sustained from Mustard Gas, Paul Smith II contacted Representative Katko for assistance in obtaining the Purple Heart Medal. The family knew that Mr. Smith had been wounded, but had previously been unaware that he was eligible for this award. Following a congressional inquiry to the U.S Department of the Army, Representative Katko was able to secure this medal. John D. Smith’s son, Paul Smith – a WWII Veteran, and his grandson, Paul Smith II, both of Auburn, accepted the awards at today’s ceremony. “It was my distinct honor to assist the family of John D. Smith in acquiring the Purple Heart Medal, and to present it to them today – nearly 100 years after he was wounded,” said Representative Katko at today’s ceremony. “At the young age of 30, Mr. Smith put his life on the line for our country to ensure our freedom. Today, we honor him for that with this medal and we pay tribute to him as an American hero.” John D. Smith, of Elbridge, enlisted in the U.S. Army when he was 30 years old. His served with Company H, 2d Battalion, 308th Infantry Regiment, 154th Infantry Brigade, 77th Division, American Expeditionary Forces in France. He was wounded in August, 1918. In addition to the Purple Heart, Representative Katko presented Mr. Smith’s family with the World War I Victory Medal with Oise-Aisne and Meuse-Argonne Bronze Battle Clasps and France Service Claps, as well as World War I Victory Button – Silver. The Purple Heart is awarded to members of the United States Armed forces who have been wounded or killed as the result of hostile actions while actively serving our country. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visithttps://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ####
01.14.2016	SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today announced the hiring of Patricia Vail Dellonte as District Director for the 24th Congressional District of New York. In this role, Dellonte will lead Katko’s district operations and will serve as the primary liaison for constituents in Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego counties. “I’m incredibly pleased to announce that Trish Dellonte will be joining my district team and leading our local efforts to help serve the people of Central New York,” said Representative Katko. “Trish has an extensive background in public service and a vast knowledge of our community. She is dedicated to ensuring that residents in Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties receive accessible, quality constituent services.” A Cayuga County native and resident, Dellonte will leave her position after five years as District Director for U.S. Rep. Richard Hanna (NY-22) to lead Representative Katko’s district team. Dellonte began her lifelong career of public service in the Reagan White House. Upon returning home to Central New York to raise her daughter, Dellonte worked as Regional Representative in the Auburn office of former Rep. Sherwood Boehlert. She will begin her position with Representative Katko’s office on February 1st. With offices in each of the four counties of NY-24, Rep. Katko has remained committed to providing excellent constituent service to all of Central New York. His constituent service team is made up of experienced caseworkers who specialize in helping individuals and their families navigate federal agencies. Representative Katko has returned over $1,100,000 in benefits to constituents across the 24th Congressional District, with the most dollars reimbursed to Social Security and Medicare recipients and U.S. military service members and veterans. His office has responded to over 30,500 constituent letters and phone calls since taking office in January 2014. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Joined in Washington, D.C. this morning by retiring SUNY Upstate Medical Center President, Dr. Gregory Eastwood and his family, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) delivered remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor Dr. Eastwood’s distinguished career and his impact on Central New York. Video of Rep. Katko’s remarks can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the distinguished career of Dr. Gregory L. Eastwood. “I am incredibly privileged to be joined here today by Dr. Eastwood and his wonderful family. “Celebrated throughout our entire region for his commitment to service, Dr. Eastwood first served as President of the State University of New York Upstate Medical University from 1993 until 2006 – the longest in the history of the institution and of all sitting presidents on SUNY campuses. Dr. Eastwood returned to the President’s seat in October 2013 when the campus was in dire need of his capable leadership. “Dr. Eastwood has served our community for years with distinction, holding leadership roles and partnering with many different organizations in the region. “He advanced an aggressive vision for the SUNY Upstate -- which has grown under his leadership through the establishment of the University Health Care Center, the Joslin Diabetes Center, and the Golisano Children’s Hospital. “A clinician, scholar, educator, community leader, and author, Dr. Eastwood has had a remarkable career. “Today, I want to thank Dr. Eastwood for his excellence, professionalism, caring presence and commitment to SUNY University and to Central New York. Our community is stronger now, because of your work. We will sorely miss you, Dr. Eastwood.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today announced that H.R. 4314, the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act, legislation tohelp close overseas security gaps in the wake of recent terror attacks, moved unanimously out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee this morning. The legislation, introduced by Reps. Katko and Zeldin earlier this week, emerged from the recommendations from the Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel, which Representative Katko chaired. Representative Katko stated, “Not only must Congress act to bolster our country’s counterterrorism efforts, but it is vital that we take action to close security gaps in international travel. This legislation does that by helping to ensurethat our overseas partners have the tools that are needed to prevent terrorists and foreign fighters from traveling between countries. This effort is the result of collaboration in the House, and I thank my colleague from New York, Rep. Lee Zeldin, for his leadership in helping to combat foreign fighter travel and to keep America safe.” Importantly, this legislation: · Makes it harder for terrorists to cross borders undetected by helping foreign countries enhancecounterterrorism screening · Requires U.S. security assistance to be directed to the places it is needed most, based on risk · Gives the Secretary of State authority to suspend certain types of foreign aid to countries that fail to close security gaps · Prevents government waste, overlap, and duplication by requiring U.S. agencies—for the first time ever—to fully coordinate their efforts abroad for cracking down on terrorist and foreign fighter travel The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act is the direct result of close collaboration between the House Homeland Security Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “I commend Congressman Katko for his hard work on this legislation and his strong leadership as the head of the Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel,” said Chairman Michael McCaul. “His panel identified overseas security gaps that are enabling terrorists and foreign fighters to sneak across borders undetected. These weaknesses put our country and our allies in danger. We saw this happen with the attacks in Paris, which were perpetrated by jihadists who moved freely between Europe and the terrorist safe haven in Syria. This commonsense legislation will help our allies ramp up screening of travelers and enhance counterterrorism vetting, which will ultimately help keep terrorists and foreign fighters from reaching the battlefield—and returning to our shores.” Congressman John Katko serves on the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the Subcommittee on Transportation Security. He represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement on the bipartisan passage of the FY 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill, as well as a tax package, which passed the House this week with his support. “With my support, the U.S. House of Representatives has passed a bipartisan agreement to fund the government through the 2016 Fiscal Year, as well as a package to make a number of critical tax credits permanent. While this agreement is far from perfect, I believe that it puts us on a sustainable path forward towards a predictable government funding process – and takes us away from the course of governing from crisis to crisis. “Like my constituents, I know that we must prioritize and invest in our national security. As a member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Chairman of the Committee’s bipartisan Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel, I am pleased that this agreement contains key provisions from our Task Force’s findings to strengthen the Visa Waiver Program and to help prevent terrorist travel. It also includes provisions that I authored which will help counter violent extremism in our local communities. This measure provides more funding for defense and gives our troops the resources that they need -- while bolstering cybersecurity and providing additional resources to the FBI, DHS, and local law enforcement to prioritize counterterrorism efforts. “Significantly for Central New York, this agreement contains a number of bipartisan provisions that I’ve supported this Congress, including the reauthorization of the 9/11 first-responder health care and victim compensation programs. It suspends the Medical Device Tax for two years – a relief for the small business and manufacturing innovators in our community that produce life-saving devices used around the globe. It allocates funding to support child nutrition programming in our schools and supports medical research for Alzheimer’s and other diseases for which we desperately seek cures. And importantly, it increases support for our ongoing effort to combat opioid addiction. “I was sent to Washington to represent Central New York, and to do so in a bipartisan manner. I’ve spend the past twelve months doing that – working to fight through partisan gridlock to deliver results for our community. While our work is far from complete, this bipartisan, bicameral legislation puts us on a path towards both a predictable budgeting process and comprehensive tax reform.
12.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – With the support of U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24), the U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act, bipartisan, bicameral legislation which places a two-year moratorium on the 2.3% tax on medical device manufacturers that was put in place to fund Obamacare. “Under the onerous Medical Device Tax, innovators, small businesses, and manufacturers right here in Central New York and across the country have slowed hiring, slowed investment in research and development, and slowed expansion – all in order to compensate for this misguided tax policy,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Repealing this tax is critical to allowing our regional businesses to invest, to grow, and to prosper. Today’s bipartisan legislation places a two year pause on this significant tax burden, which is a critical first step forward in eliminating this harmful tax altogether.” The Medical Device Tax places a unique threat on Central New York’s economy and on New York State as a whole. New York’s vibrant med-tech industry is the 8th largest in the nation, employing over 8,000 employees in Upstate New York. The 24th Congressional District is home to small business innovators and large medical device manufacturers, including Welch Allyn and MedTech Association. Since taking office, Representative Katko has been a staunch advocate for the repeal of the Medical Device Tax, serving as an original co-sponsor on legislation to repeal the tax. Hill-Rom President & CEO John J. Greisch said, “Hill-Rom and Welch Allyn are established industry leaders in medtech innovation – we are constantly searching for new ways to help improve the quality of care for patients and their caregivers. Our work to develop new technologies depends on our ability to take calculated risks and make strategic investments, efforts challenged by this medical device excise tax, which stifles innovation and reduces our ability to invest in R&D. Hill-Rom and Welch Allyn are grateful that Congress passed a two year reprieve. On behalf of the patients we serve, thank you to Congressman Katko, Senator Schumer and Senator Gillibrand for taking the lead and ensuring this tax is no longer an impediment to developing important new medical technologies. We look forward to continue working together to permanently repeal this onerous tax.” “On behalf of nearly 350 medical technology companies across New York State, their employees and the patients they serve, MedTech applauds members of the New York congressional delegation for their unwavering support to repeal this onerous tax,” said Jessica Crawford, MedTech Association president. “Suspension is an important step toward full repeal of the medical device tax and preserving more than 13,000 jobs and $4.6 billion in economic impact across New York. The efforts of our delegation will help boost innovation, job creation and patient care.” In addition to the two-year moratorium on the Medical Device Tax, today’s bipartisan tax measure includes provisions to: Provide Central New York families with the certainty that they need to plan by extending tax relief policies and making permanent the enhanced child tax credit, and important enhancements to the American Opportunity Tax credit, and the Earned Income Tax Credit. For the first time in thirty-four years, make the Research & Development tax credit permanent, offering incentives for innovation by small businesses. Prevent tax increases for small businesses, and extending tax credits to promote small business growth, innovation, and investment. Place a two year pause on the “Cadillac tax,” on expensive health insurance plans. Provides a two year extension for alternative fuel tax credits heavily utilized by Centro. Representative Katko concluded, “For far too long, Congress has waited until the last minute – arbitrarily making changes or adding temporary extensions. Central New York families and businesses, and farms need predictable, certain policies that they can depend on. This legislation does that, and lays the groundwork for comprehensive tax reform in Congress.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.14.2015	ONONDAGA COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY BILL FITZPATRICK JOINS REP. KATKO IN ANNOUNCING PUSH TO CRACK DOWN ON SYNTHETIC DRUGS Local Law Enforcement, Healthcare and Treatment Professionals, Advocates Join Katko and Fitzpatrick to Raise Awareness for Growing Synthetic Drug Epidemic in CNY SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) was today joined by Onondaga County District Attorney Bill Fitzpatrick, as well as local law enforcement, healthcare and treatment service providers, and prevention advocates, in announcing that he has introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 4229, the Protecting Our Youth from Dangerous Synthetic Drugs Act, which would make it easier to prosecute the sale and distribution of synthetic drugs. Central New York has seen a stark increase in the distribution and use of synthetic drugs, especially in our youth. While Congress took action in 2012 to outlaw several synthetic drugs, manufacturers and distributors of these substances are able to slightly alter the chemical structure of drugs to circumvent this law and avoid law enforcement scrutiny and prosecution. Current laws are not keeping up with the producers of these poisonous substances, and consequently, substances designed to mimic the effects of LSD, Ecstasy, cocaine, marijuana, and other hard drugs are sold openly at convenience stores, gas stations, head shops and other outlets, and giving some users the assumption that they are not as dangerous as other, illegal substances. Representative Katko, who served as an organized crime and drug prosecutor for over twenty years, stated, “As a federal prosecutor, I saw first-hand the dangerous impact of synthetic drug use on individuals and families in our community. That’s why, as Central New York’s Representative in Congress, I’ve committed to working with local law enforcement, healthcare providers, and community advocates to raise awareness of the dangerous effects of these drugs. This legislation will help this effort by giving law enforcement and prosecutors the flexibility that they need to crack down on the manufacturers and sellers of these substances.” Katko and Fitzpatrick, both critically aware of this troubling epidemic, have committed to partnering on a state and federal level to address the problem in both in a legislative and prosecutorial manner.Onondaga County District Attorney William J. Fitzpatrick said, "The scourge of synthetic drugs has destroyed lives in communities across the country, including ours. Responding to the waves of this poison inundating central New York over the last several years has been particularly challenging for law enforcement and local governments. During that time, I have advocated for federal laws to adequately address those challenges. It took someone with John Katko's background and experience to understand the deadly nature of this problem. He listened and as he has already shown in his short time in Congress, he acted. This legislation is smart, timely, and badly needed. I applaud the efforts of Congressman Katko and I urge his colleagues in Congress act swiftly." Specifically, the Protecting Our Youth from Dangerous Synthetic Drugs Act would: Establish an inter-agency committee of experts, headed by the Drug Enforcement Administration, which would be responsible for establishing and maintaining an administrative list of synthetic drugs or controlled substance analogues. The committee would be structured so that it could respond quickly and robustly to the threat. Prevent the importation of synthetic drugs unless they have express approval to do so. Direct the U.S. Sentencing Commission to review, and if appropriate, amend the federal sentencing guidelines. Dr. Indu Gupta, MD,MPH,MA,FACP, Onondaga County Health Department Commissioner said, “Increasing use of synthetic cannabinoids can result in serious health consequences from bizarre behavior, paranoia, seizures, kidney failure, heart injury including death. Frequent changes in the chemical structure of these products pose challenges to health care providers, public health, and law enforcement officials alike. This is a serious public health threat and requires a joint approach from all of us to combat it. " Teresa Woolson, President of the VOW Foundation — an organization named in honor of her son, Victor, who died from a fatal reaction to synthetic marijuana – said, "There is a new type of drug dealer, the entrepreneur. I applaud Congressman Katko for continuing to tackle this health crisis." Onondaga County Sheriff Eugene Conway said, "This drug is pervasive throughout all of Onondaga County and its makeup and resulting behavior by those who use it is deadly. The Sheriff's Office is committed to ending its being available." "Synthetics are taking lives in our community. As the region's leader in treatment services, Crouse Hospital applauds Congressman Katko's proposed federal legislation that aims to stop the manufacturing and sale of these substances," said Monika Taylor, Director of Behavioral Health for Crouse Hospital. Dr. Louise Prince, MD, FACEP, Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine at SUNY Upstate Medical University said, “The creation and availability of synthetic drugs has rapidly increased causing widespread use, abuse, and addiction. This has put a tremendous stress on our health care delivery system affecting all of our patients due to the resources required to treat this epidemic. Measures to decrease the availability of these drugs are urgently needed to preserve the emergency medical system's ability to care for all patients.” Melissa Carr, AEMT-CC, APIO, M.A., Market Development Manager for Rural/Metro said, "Rural/Metro supports the collaborative efforts of the Central New York community in addressing the ongoing epidemic of synthetic drug use. Rep. Katko's proposed legislation is an important element in the overall response to eliminate this problem." “Prevention Network commends Congressman Katko for his imperative attention to the synthetic drug epidemic in Onondaga County. From a prevention perspective, legislation such as The Protecting Our Youth from Dangerous Synthetic Drugs Act is exactly the type of strategy that needs to be implemented,” said Beth E. Hurny, LMSW, CASAC, Executive Director of the Prevention Network. Representative Katko was joined by Rep. David Cicilline (RI-1) in introducing the bill. Rep. Louise Slaughter (NY-25) has also joined as a co-sponsor on this legislation. This bill is the House companion to a bipartisan bill introduced in the Senate by U.S. Sens. Diane Feinstein (CA) and Rob Portman (OH). Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24), Chair of the of House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Transportation Security, today called on the nation’s top counterterrorism officials to provide details that many Americans seek surrounding the U.S. terrorist watchlists. Katko expressed his shock and concern – echoed by many Americans – in the wake of the San Bernardino shooting, to learn that neither of the identified shooters was on any of the U.S. government’s terrorist watchlists, despite having been radicalized for well over a year, according to Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigations James Comey. Additionally, Katko noted the failure of the TSA to identify 73 aviation workers who had potential links to terrorism earlier this year. Representative Katko stated, “These examples raise serious questions about the methodology used to identify potential terrorist threats and appropriately place individuals on terrorist watchlists. I am deeply concerned that we are failing to identify the real and current threats, while placing innocent Americans on lists that restrict their freedom of movement and travel.” “Terrorist watchlists, including the no-fly list, are often based on incomplete information and unreasonable suspicions,” continued Katko. “While I understand that the redress process has greatly improved over the last several years, there remains a lack of robust and complete due process for individuals who learn they are on the watchlist.” Specifically, Katko asked Nicholas Rasmussen, Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, and Christopher Piehota, Director of the Terrorist Screening Center, to provide answers to the following questions, within the next 12 days: How many individuals are in the Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment (TIDE) and of this number, how many are U.S. Citizens and how many are resident aliens? What criteria are used to determine if someone should be placed into the Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment (TIDE) database? How many individuals are in the Terrorist Screening Database (TSDB) and of this number how many are U.S. Citizens and how many are resident aliens? How many individuals are listed in the FBI’s Automated Case Support System (ACSS)? What agencies are permitted to submit data for inclusion into TIDE and TSDB? What are the specific criteria for being on the No Fly list? What is the process for putting an individual on the No Fly list? Who ultimately makes the decision to put an individual on or take an individual off the No Fly list? How often is the No Fly list reviewed and updated to ensure that individuals listed align with the current threat environment? Are there currently any individuals under the age of 18 on the No Fly list? Since 2005, how many individuals have been mistakenly placed on the No Fly list? “I am greatly concerned that our nation’s current terrorist watchlists – including the no fly list – fail to fix our nation’s security vulnerabilities,” Katko said after calling for the investigation. “We cannot rely on inaccurate data, and we must make sure if someone is placed on a no fly list, that they actually pose a security risk. In addition to this investigation, I will continue to work with our intelligence communities to determine which individuals on the lists are actual terror threats and establish a framework to ensure Americans have due process protections.” Additionally, the House Homeland Security Transportation Security Subcommittee will hold a classified subcommittee review of terror watchlists. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives which will advance the designation of Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum in Oswego to National Park status. U.S. Representative Richard Hanna (NY-22), whose district also includes a portion of Oswego County, joined Rep. Katko as an original co-sponsor in the introduction of this legislation today. “Fort Ontario is one of our state’s -- and our nation’s -- greatest and most unique historical assets. In fact, it is the only Fort that has been involved in every war since the French and Indian war,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Preserving this historic location as a National Park has the potential to grow tourism and boost the regional economy of not only Oswego County, but all of Central New York.” “I am pleased to cosponsor this bill to promote our proud upstate New York history,” U.S. Rep. Richard Hanna said. “It is important to recognize our historical assets and to do so in a way that promotes and encourages tourism for our region. I look forward to the results of this comprehensive study to determine how to best preserve and protect Fort Ontario.” Over the course of the past several months, individuals from across Oswego County have worked to organize local support for the designation of the 260 year old Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven Holocaust Refugee Shelter Museum as a National Park. As a part of these efforts, Rep. Katko has visited the Fort on several occasions, met individually with a cross-section of his constituents in the area surrounding the Fort, and took part in an information and rally event to raise community awareness for this project. Judy Rapaport, Advisory Board Member for Safe Haven and Past President said, "Ever since its inception, Safe Haven Museum has been struggling to tell the story as the only refugee shelter for victims of the Holocaust during WWII. The initiative to begin the study for National Park status will help achieve that goal. I want to thank Congressman Katko for his critical role in this process." “Fort Ontario and the Fort Ontario Refugee Shelter have been the sites of significant national and international events,” said New York State Assemblyman Will Barclay (120th District). “I am pleased to support this effort that would give the Fort and Oswego the recognition it deserves for having been home to many important battles, treatment centers for military and civilian victims of the Spanish Influenza and, of course, the only refugee shelter in the U.S. for victims of the Holocaust. This site is of local, state, federal, and international significance and deserves to be recognized as such and I commend Congressman Katko for his efforts in this regard.” “Protecting and preserving our history is a central function of my job as Oswego County Clerk. I am thrilled that Congressman Katko has introduced legislation to make Fort Ontario a National Park. We know locally the treasure that is Fort Ontario and this designation will help boost our recreational tourism so that we can share Fort Ontario with the rest of the nation,” said Oswego County Clerk Mike Backus. “I want to thank Congressman Katko for all his efforts and commitment to the City of Oswego and spearheading the movement to make Fort Ontario a National Park,” stated Oswego Mayor Thomas Gillen. “His successful leadership will create a major economic engine for the growth of the entire Central New York Community.” Oswego Mayor-elect Billy Barlow said, “Fort Ontario is undoubtedly one of our greatest assets in the City of Oswego and I am ecstatic with Congressman Katko’s ambitious effort to promote Fort Ontario as not only a regional attraction but a National Attraction, so that Fort Ontario and all of the City of Oswego can be recognized and marketed as a desirable destination.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and the western portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) this evening spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act of 2015, bipartisan legislation which overwhelmingly passed the House by a 407-19 margin. The Visa Waiver Program (VWP) Improvement Act includes significant recommendations from the Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel, which Rep. Katko chaired. This legislation makes security improvements to the Visa Waiver Program’s Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA) form, supports the use of e-passports and other biometric data, and calls for a regular review of the program. By including these measures, H.R. 158 will dramatically improve the amount of accurate information used to vet individuals who come to the United States without a visa for 90 days. Video of Rep. Katko’s remarks can be found here. Representative Katko’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, can be found below: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015. “This bill, which I cosponsored, will close a critical gap in our nation’s border security that is vulnerable to exploitation by terrorists and other nefarious actors seeking to do us harm. “This bill does not seek to eliminate the VWP, but strengthens the security of the program by requiring participating nations to increase counterterrorism information sharing, screen travelers against INTERPOL’s databases and enhance passport security features. “As Chair of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Foreign Fighter Task Force, I spent countless hours examining weaknesses in our nation’s defenses against the threat posed by foreign fighters. “The provisions in this bill address several of the key findings in our report, and I thank Mrs. Miller for her leadership on this important issue. I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation, and yield back the balance of my time.” Upon the passage of the bill, Representative Katko stated, “This bill, which passed the House in a bipartisan manner, includes several of the recommendations that were outlined in the Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Report. Having led this task force, I am pleased to see these recommendations being considered by Congress. I congratulate Chairwoman Miller the passage of this legislation, and for the bipartisan efforts of the entire Committee to improve our national security.” Congressman John Katko serves on the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the Subcommittee on Transportation Security. He represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion ofOswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.04.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – Standing before the aging I-81 viaduct in Syracuse this morning, U.S. Rep. John Katko was joined by a bipartisan group of elected officials from Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego counties, as well as local business, transportation, and labor organizations, for a press conference to the discuss yesterday’s passage of the bipartisan conference report for H.R. 22, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. This long-term, multi-year highway bill passed both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate yesterday and is now headed to the President’s desk for signature. Representative Katko shared significant wins for all of Central New York in the bill stating, “I am proud to have been able to take a leadership role on this bipartisan, long-term bill. I saw legislation through Committee, to the House floor, through Conference – and we ended up with a quality product that is good for Central New York. This fully offset, five year bill provides the stability and funding that Central New York needs to plan for the long-term. I’m grateful for the support of the local business, transportation, and labor organizations that are here with me today, and for their recognition of the important role that this long-term bill will play in improving our community’s infrastructure.” Katko, who served as a negotiator of the bill as a member of the House and Senate Conference committee on the legislation, emphasized the importance of breaking through gridlock in Washington, noting “I recognize that there is gridlock in Washington, and that the institution as a whole may not be working as it should, but I will continue to work – as I did to produce this bill – every day in Washington to produce bipartisan results for Central New York.” Katko was joined today by New York State Assemblyman Bob Oaks (130th District), Chairman of the Onondaga County Legislature Ryan McMahon, Oswego Mayor-elect Billy Barlow, Oswego County Clerk Mike Backus, Cayuga County Legislator Tim Lattimore, Auburn City Clerk Chuck Mason, Auburn City Councilor-elect James Giannettino, representatives for New York State Senators John A. DeFrancisco (50th District) and David J. Valesky (53rd District), as well as representatives from the Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council, Centro, the Manufacturers Association of Central New York (MACNY), the Cayuga County Economic Development Agency, United Association of Plumbers & Steamfitters Local 267, Laborers’ Local 633, the International Union of Operating Engineers, the Central New York Building and Construction Trades Council, and IBEW Local 43. These individual and organizations, as well as a number of others who were unable to attend today, praised the bipartisan passage of the highway bill and applauded Representative Katko’s efforts in Congress to ensure that, among other things, I-81 was designated as a high priority corridor, and his work to ensure that funding remained secure for Centro. “We are very, very pleased the House – Senate Conference Committee has agreed to preserve the high density state funding formula,” said Rick Lee, Deputy Executive Director of Centro. “Had this formula not been preserved, Centro would lose $2 million per year for six years for a total of $12 million. On behalf of all of our customers and our communities, I would like to thank Congressman Katko for his tireless effort to ensure these drastic funding cuts would not be included in the final transportation bill. His leadership on the House –Senate Conference Committee was critical to his success in preserving this funding for all Central New York communities. Congressman Katko has been a longstanding leader in support of public transportation in our community, and our community is a better place for his effort. Mr. Katko knows how devastating these cuts would have been to the people who rely on Centro to go to work, to provide for their families, visit retail stores and businesses, and gain access to healthcare. He also understands Centro is the sole source of transportation for many persons with disabilities who live in Central New York. Strong local economies are built on strong public transportation systems and thanks to Mr. Katko’s leadership we are moving in the right direction.” Greg Lancette, Business Manager of United Association of Plumbers & Steamfitters Local 267 and President of Central and Northern New York Building and Construction Trades Council stated, “The passage of the FAST Act ensures a level of stability for the hard working men and women that build and maintain our interstate system. Interstate 81 in New York receiving ‘High Priority Corridor’ status is a direct result of Congressman Katko's determination to fight for Central and Northern New York.” MACNY Vice President of Communications & Government Relations Karyn Burns stated this morning, “I am pleased to be here today with many of my Central New York colleagues and Congressman Katko talking about this very important piece of legislation impacting our State’s infrastructure. MACNY has long maintained that in order for the manufacturing sector to thrive, government needs to support infrastructure investments that will enable us to remain successful in serving global markets. Infrastructure investments will assist in the transportation of U.S. goods and products, allowing the manufacturers to be truly competitive. On behalf of MACNY and the statewide manufacturing community, I thank Congressman Katko for his leadership on this critical issue and for working with his colleagues to ensure this highway bill was successfully addressed and passed into law.” "This bill offers a measure of certainty and predictability needed as Central New York plans for its future,” said Robert Simpson, president of CenterState CEO. "Making I-81 a high priority corridor stands to streamline the approval and funding process for this important community project. Additionally, this bill increases funding for mass transit – including critical support needed for CENTRO, and restores funding to the Ex-Im Bank, which will enable more businesses, especially smaller firms, to export their products and services. I am grateful to Representative Katko and Senator Schumer for their leadership and support of transit and infrastructure investments for Central New York.” “We are grateful for Congressman Katko and the work he has done with his colleagues to get the Highway Bill passed,” expressed Cayuga Count Economic Development Agency Executive Director Andrew Fish. “There are so many important provisions in this bill that will help economic development thrive in Central New York. From expanding the funding options for critical public transit like Centro, to ensuring that we can continue to invest in infrastructure to create efficiencies in freight handling and safety. Congressman Katko has once again represented the interests of Central New York well and I am grateful for his leadership.” James D’Agostino, Director of the Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council (SMTC), stated, “The passage of a multiyear transportation bill allows the agencies responsible for the maintenance, planning, and construction of our transportation infrastructure the ability to reasonably plan for their projects and needs with a knowledge of the available federal funding. The dire condition of much of our transportation infrastructure warrants immediate attention and bills such as this one allow us to provide that. The SMTC recently completed our Long Range Transportation Plan (2050) in conjunction with all our member agencies in the area and the needs and priorities identified within can now be moved forward towards meeting our goals and objectives as a community.” “We appreciate Congressman John Katko’s leadership in getting a long term highway bill through the House of Representatives,” said Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney. “His bipartisan collaboration with Senator Chuck Schumer and the rest of the conference committee resulted in restoring critical funding to Centro and once again demonstrated Congressman Katko’s commitment to work with everyone in order to help his constituents.” “On behalf of the residents of the City of Oswego, I am both thankful and grateful for Congressman Katko’s hard work to ensure the passage of the FAST Act,” said City of Oswego Mayor-elect Billy Barlow. “Addressing and investing in our infrastructure is essential to our long term economic health and vitality as a region and I look forward to the benefits it will reap for the City of Oswego.” New York State Assemblyman Bob Oaks (130th District), who represents Wayne County and portions of both Oswego and Cayuga Counties, said “This important legislation gives us the flexibility to help invest in Central New York’s aging infrastructure – including the many rural road and bridges that desperately need repair in Wayne, Oswego, and Cayuga counties.” Congressman John Katko serves as a member of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and was selected to serve as a conferee on the House and Senate Conference Committee on the bill. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – After thirty seven short-term extensions, the U.S. House of Representatives, with the support of Rep. John Katko (NY-24), today passed the bipartisan conference report for H.R. 22, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. This bill represents the first long-term highway bill in over a decade, and will assist in the improvement of surface transportation infrastructure –including roads, bridges, transit systems and rail transportation networks – in Central New York and across the country. U.S. Rep. John Katko, who helped to negotiate the final bill as a member of the House and Senate Conference Committee said, “Today’s legislation includes significant wins for Central New York, including the designation of Interstate 81 as a high priority corridor, continued funding for Centro, and the overall stability that our community needs to plan for long term investment in our infrastructure.” At Representative Katko’s request, the bill designates I-81 through Central New York as a ‘High Priority Corridor.’ This signifies recognition of the importance of I-81 to Central New York as well as its importance to the national economy. Additionally, Representative Katko worked in a bipartisan manner, together with Senator Schumer and other members of the New York delegation, to ensure that Centro continues to receive sufficient funding. Significantly, Representative Katko advocated for the following items to be included in the bill for the benefit of Central New York: Creation of a National Surface Transportation and Innovative Finance Bureau which will aid state and local governments in securing financing for projects, navigating the regulatory process, and the creation of public-private partnerships to aid in financing. This will make project delivery easier and more navigable for state and local governments, which has been a priority for Rep. Katko. Protects current funding formulas to ensure that states like New York don’t lose out on funding due to new means of allocating money. Provides states new flexibility in the use of funds for bridges that aren’t a part of the National Highway System, which is the case for the vast majority of bridges in NY-24. This will make it easier for states to fix bridges in need of repair that may not have received funding before. Continues and increases grant programs for bus programs and facilities, of benefit to agencies like Centro. Establishes a National Highway Freight Program, and a National Multimodal Freight Program to provide ways of breaking up freight bottlenecks around the country, and focus resources improving the nation’s freight infrastructure. All interstates, including I-81, are part of the National Highway Freight Program under the bill. Rep. Katko asked the Committee to consider the importance of multimodal programs to improve connectivity and the movement of goods and traffic. Representative Katko will join tomorrow in Syracuse with local elected officials from Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties as well as local business, transportation, and labor organizations, for a press conference to the discuss passage of this long-term, multi-year highway bill. Details will be forthcoming to local media. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, visit Katko.house.gov or Facebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this afternoon, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) paid tribute to longtime Wayne County Board of Supervisors Chairman Jim Hoffman upon his retirement from a lifetime of public service. Video of Representative Katko’s floor speech can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor one of Wayne County’s most dedicated public servants, Jim Hoffman, and to send him off on a well-deserved retirement. Jim’s esteemed career in public service began when he enlisted in the U.S. Navy as a young man. It continued with 30 years with the New York State Police, five terms serving his community as Town Supervisor in Williamson, and ten years as Chairman of the Wayne County Board of Supervisors. Jim has faithfully served his constituents both in the Town of Williamson and across Wayne County. Under Jim’s leadership, Wayne County is a better place to live. He’s lowered taxes in Williamson, kept taxes stable across the County, supported our region’s vast community of growers and farmers, emerged as a leader in the fight against Plan 2014, and made the Town of Williamson the first in all of New York State tofunction with 100 percent solar power. There is no question that Jim’s lifetime of service deserves recognition. He has been a great friend, mentor, and confidant throughout my campaign for election and whilerepresenting the people of the 24th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. I congratulate Jim on his long and distinguished career, and wish him a happy retirement with his children and his grandchildren. Chairman Jim Hoffman will retire at the end of December. He has served as Chairman of the Wayne County Board of Supervisors for ten years and as Supervisor for the Town of Williamson for twelve years. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, pleasevisit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the support of Rep. John Katko (NY-24), the U.S. House of Representatives this evening passed H.R. 5, The Every Student Succeeds Act of 2015. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation represents the first education reform bill in over fourteen years. The bill, which is a product of the House and Senate conference committee empowers local educators and replaces the fundamentally flawed No Child Left Behind law. “Central New York parents, educators, and administrators know best when it comes to educating our children and improving education in our schools. We must credit our teachers with the ability to make decisions on the local level and give them the flexibility they need to teach students using unique, inventive, and creative methods reflective of local conditions,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “We can’t teach students in the City of Syracuse the same way that we teach students in Fulton, in Auburn, in Palmyra, or Fayetteville-Manlius. Each school district -- and each child -- is different. Our education standards must reflect that.” This bill eliminates the one-size-fits-all policy of education and shifts authority from the federal government to the states in order to give local school administrators and teachers the power to define what it means for a school to be successful. Importantly, the federal government may not mandate or incentivize states to adopt or maintain any particular set of standards, including Common Core. Katko explained, “The Every Student Succeeds Act significantly scales back the federal government’s role in education, providing greater flexibility so that decisions on education can be made at the state and local level.” The bill reduces testing requirements, giving state and local school districts the flexibility to design their own systems for judging school performance and the ability to measure academic progress through test scores, graduation rates and English language acquisitions. Katko, who has focused intensively on the rate of local poverty in Syracuse and the correlation between poverty and education added, “There’s no question that education is key to addressing the devastating rate of poverty in the City of Syracuse — and in communities nationwide. This legislation supports at-risk, impoverished and homeless student populations and gives schools the tools that they need to address to help these students succeed in school." "The Every Student Succeeds Act of 2015 is an important step towards bringing sanity back to testing and accountability," said NYSUT Executive Vice President Andrew Pallotta. "In addition to preserving investments in early childhood education and equity for poor students, it gives states like New York much greater flexibility to decide what their teacher evaluation and accountability systems look like, and how they work. Most importantly, the re-authorization of ESEA takes the government out of the business of teacher evaluations, and de-links studenttest scores from teacher evaluations. That can lead to a welcome path here in New York State." Specifically, the Every Student Succeeds Act: • Prevents the federal government from mandating states to adopt Common Core, allowing each state to set its own challenging academic standards in reading and math. • Repeals the one-size-fits-all “Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP)” system and replaces it with a comprehensive, state-designed accountability system that will evaluate school performance using multiple measures beyond test scores to help identify and support low-performing schools. • Supports Teachers, Principals, and Other Educators by ending mandates on teacher evaluations, and instead provides high quality training, ongoing evidence-based professional development, and recruitment opportunities for new educators. • Prioritizes learning outcomes for students of all abilities, setting high standards for students with disabilities and focusing on the unique needs of students who are studying English as a second language. • Provides states flexibility to monitor student performance, empowering states and local districts to develop and implement their own innovative assessments. • Enhances support for schools, through a grant program which gives school districts the ability to target specific needs and better serve students, for example, through the effective use of technology. • Promotes high quality choices for parents by both expanding current high-quality charter school models and investing in models while incentivizing charter school accountability, transparency, and community engagement practices. • Maintains, strengthens, and streamlines existing critical programs by supporting those that emphasize innovation, teacher quality, afterschool programing, STEM education, arts education, and accelerated learning, safe and healthy students, literacy, and community involvement inschools, among others. • Allows states to limit the amount of time students spend taking annual tests and gives parents the right to the right to opt their children out of statewide academic assessments where state and local policies allow them to do so. The legilsation embodies the expectation that all students will learn at high levels and that schools will receive vitally needed resources. Significantly, it clearly and repeatedly places prohibitions on the U.S. Secretary of Education, limiting the authority of the Department of Education to guarantee an end to the prescriptiveness and required federal approval that made No Child Left Behind increasingly problematic. Katko concluded, “The current approach to education is failing our children and their teachers. With more and more children falling through the cracks, it is evident that more federal control of education is not the answer. This bipartisan agreement gives opportunity to students across our country and is the first step in fixing our broken education system.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, visit Katko.house.gov orFacebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
11.30.2015	Syracuse, NY – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), member of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and Surface Transportation Conference Committee member, today released the following update regarding the conference report on the surface transportation reauthorization legislation: “From Syracuse, to Auburn, to Oswego, families and individuals across the 24th Congressional District depend on the critical transportation services that Centro provides for access to jobs, to school, and to ensure care for their families. While funding for these transit services was threatened by an amendment to the highway bill, my colleagues and I on the House and Senate Conference Committee have made progress on an agreement that will ensure Centro continues to receive sufficient funding. “As a member of the House selected to join with our colleagues in the Senate to conference on this bill, it has been my top priority to restore funding for transit programs. Senator Schumer, Rep. Nadler, and other members of the New York delegation have played critical roles in our bipartisan effort to communicate Centro's needs. “While talks are still ongoing, an agreement on this long-term, bipartisan bill will not only allow Centro to continue to provide vital services across CNY, but the bill as a whole will provide Central New York with the stability and flexibility that our community needs to invest in our infrastructure." Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), member of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and Surface Transportation Conference Committee member, today spoke at a public meeting on the surface transportation reauthorization legislation to express concerns over an amendment that was added to the House bill which would eliminate funding for the 5340 High Density States bus program and result in funding cuts for Centro. Video of Rep. Katko’s remarks can be found, here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery are below: “I’d like to thank Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio for their hard work in crafting this bill. It’s been a pleasure serving on Transportation and Infrastructure. “I want to express my concern over an amendment that was added to the House bill on the floor, which eliminates funding for the 5340 High Density States bus program. “The seven states that receive funding through this program provide half of all the public transit use in the country. “This important program simply ensures that states with the most need receive the funding they need to maintain robust transit programs. “This misguided amendment redirects this money to a discretionary program controlled by the Department of Transportation, and in doing so would wreak havoc on the most heavily used transit agencies in the country without providing ANY increased funding certainty to agencies in other states. “Centro, the transit agency that serves my district would see a cut of more than 20%, and this agency already faces dire financial difficulties. “The same devastating cuts would be inflicted on agencies throughout the northeast, where this funding is needed the most, unless we act. “We should act and restore this program, because this is how our federal system is supposed to work. States with more transit needs should get more transit funding just as states with more agriculture will benefit disproportionately from the farm bill. “We should act, because if we don’t half the nation’s transit users will instantly be worse off. “We should act, because if we don’t, the economies of these states, which are among the foremost drivers of our nation’s economy and are highly dependent on transit, will suffer greatly, and the nation’s economy will suffer as a result. “We should act because it’s the prudent thing to do, and the right thing to do. “I urge the Committee to recede to the Senate’s position on this issue, and get us back to the spirit of cooperation and compromise that ensured that the Committee-passed bill received unanimous support. “Thank you for your consideration. I’m eager to serve on this conference committee with you.” In addition to his delivered remarks, Rep. Katko submitted a statement for the record calling for Interstate-81’s “High Priority Corridor” status to be maintained. An amendment submitted by Rep. Katko in the House-passed language conferred this designation on I-81. Finally, Rep. Katko called for the maintenance of provisions he inserted at the Committee level protecting the safety of highway workers and bus operators, as well as “Safe Streets” language that ensures that new infrastructure is designed in a manner that protects pedestrians. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.14.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement regarding the terrorist attacks in Paris: "My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Paris, as we mourn the innocent victims of these horrific and coordinated terrorist attacks. We must continue to pray for their loved ones and for all of the first responders who put their own lives on the line in the aftermath of these attacks. “The news today that ISIS has claimed responsibility is yet another reminder that America and her allies must stand together with France to fight ISIS, their hateful ideology, and the violence it incites. As Chairman of both the Foreign Fighter Task Force and the House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Transportation Security, I am all too aware of the lengths to which ISIS will go to try and inflict terror. We must remain vigilant to combat global terrorism, and recognize that ISIS is intent on inflicting harm on anyone who opposes their radical beliefs.” Congressman John Katko serves on the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the Transportation Security Subcommittee. He chaired the Committee’s bipartisan Task Force on Combating Terrorist & Foreign Fighter Travel. Congressman Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ####
11.13.2015	PALMYRA, NY – At a ceremony this afternoon at Palmyra Village Hall, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) presented the Village of Palmyra Historic Preservation Commission with a two-star rear admiral’s flag on behalf of the Department of the Navy and the Naval Historical Foundation. Earlier this year, Representative Katko was contacted by the Palmyra Historic Preservation Commission for assistance in obtaining a replacement two-star rear admiral’s flag from the U.S. Navy. Over a century ago, a flag was presented to the Village of Palmyra by the Department of Navy upon the 1902 death of Palmyra native and Civil War and Spanish American War hero, Rear Admiral William T. Sampson. Representative Katko was able to contact the Department of the Navy and the Naval Historical Foundation, a non-profit organization dedicated to preserving and commemorating the Navy’s history, to receive a replacement flag. “With this flag, the Village of Palmyra will be able to revive a tradition dating back to over a century ago, when the village flew a similar flag in the years following the death of Rear Admiral Sampson,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko at today’s ceremony. “This flag highlights the special naval heritage of the Town and Village of Palmyra, and it is my distinct pleasure to provide it to the Rear Admiral Sampson’s great-great niece, Merilee Sampson Fisk.” “This replacement Admiral Sampson Flag will revive Village tradition,” said Eleanor Drake, Chair of the Palmyra Historic Preservation Commission. “We are so very grateful to Congressman Katko for his assistance in helping us obtain a replacement flag, and to the Naval Historical Foundation for donating the flag.” Assemblyman Bob Oaks joined Katko in today’s presentation, stating, “Wayne County is rich in history, and I thank Congressman Katko for his efforts in assisting our community and helping to preserve and showcase the accomplishments of our past. This flag will nicely complement all of the ongoing efforts by the Palmyra Historic Preservation Commission to enhance and protect the landmarks and history of the Village of Palmyra.” The great-great niece of Admiral Sampson, Merilee Sampson Fisk, was present to receive the flag. In addition members of the Palmyra Preservation Commission, Representative Katko was joined today by Assemblyman Bob Oaks (130th District), Town of Palmyra Supervisor Kenneth Miller, Deputy Mayor of the Village of Palmyra David Husk, Members of the Village Board, as well as the combined Color/Honor Guard from the Palmyra American Legion and VFW. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.10.2015	Syracuse, NY – In advance of Veterans Day, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following video message honoring Central New York veterans: “Throughout the course of our nation’s history, courageous men and women have served our country to protect our freedoms. “Central New York is home to thousands of veterans – men and women who have served in wars from World War II, to Korea, to Vietnam, Iraq, and Afghanistan. Many of these service members have also served our local communities in response to natural disasters, like Hurricane Sandy. “The memorials on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. allow Americans from across the county to pay tribute every day to our nation’s great veterans and to extend gratitude to those who have put their lives in harm’s way for our freedom and for our democracy. “At home, I’ve recently had the opportunity to honor two great American heroes and to thank them for making our freedom possible. “I was able to award these great men – Private Anthony Tangretti, who served in WWII, and Sargent Gary Janis, who served in Vietnam – the medals that they were due for their service. “These memorials are a testament to the loyalty and the courage of these men, and so many like them, who have answered the call of duty. They are a forceful reminder of the debt that we owe our nation’s veterans – and I’m committed, as Central New York’s Representative in Congress, to ensuring that veterans from all generations are given the care and benefits that they are owed. Our nation’s brave veterans have earned a lifetime of gratitude. “As we celebrate Veterans Day, let us take a moment to thank those brave men and women, both in our community and nationwide, who have served this great country of ours. Since taking office in January, Congressman Katko has prioritized service to veterans in Central New York. He has assisted in the return of nearly $600,000 in benefits to veterans and active U.S. service members in the 24th Congressional District. Recently, Rep. Katko’s office was selected to participate in the Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program. Through this program, Tom Parody – a former U.S. Marine and Central New York native – has recently joined Rep. Katko’s district team as a Veterans Case Worker. In this role, Mr. Parody assists veterans, active duty military, and their families navigate federal agencies. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan, six year highway bill that will provide state and local governments with funding and planning certainty. Representative Katko was selected by Speaker of the House Paul Ryan to serve on the House and Senate conference committee, which will work to reconcile differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. The fully offset bill authorizes $325 billion in federal funding to improve and modernize our nation’s aging infrastructure. “Our state and local governments need predictability as we move forward to plan for local projects like the I-81 rebuild,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “After 35 short-term extensions to federal highway programs, this fiscally-responsible bill provides Central New York with the stability and flexibility that we need to make long-term investments in our infrastructure.” Katko, who sits on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, has repeatedly advocated for a long-term highway bill to fully provide for the needs of Central New York. Earlier this week, he spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of this legislation. His remarks can be found here. Katko, one of sixteen Members of the House appointed to the House and Senate conference continued, “I look forward to representing the interests of Central New York as we work together with our colleagues in the Senate to produce a long-term, sustainable bill to send to the President’s desk.” MACNY and Manufacturers Alliance of New York State President Randy Wolken stated, “MACNY and the Alliance have long maintained that in order for the manufacturing sector to thrive, Government needs to support infrastructure investments that will enable us to remain successful in serving global markets. Today’s passage of the Highway bill under the leadership of Congressman Katko and his colleagues does just that. Infrastructure investments will assist in the transportation of US goods and products, allowing the manufacturers to be truly competitive. On behalf of the statewide manufacturing community, I thank Congressman Katko for his leadership on this critical issue despite the challenges. We look forward to continuing to work with him on creating a better business climate for New York State manufacturers and businesses.” “CenterState CEO commends the House of Representatives for passing the first, long-term, and fully funded highway bill since 2009", said CenterState CEO President & Chief Executive Officer Rob Simpson. “This bill offers a measure of certainty and predictability that Central New York needs to plan its transportation infrastructure for the future. As the House and Senate move into conference to work out their differences on this legislation, we’re glad Representative Katko will be at the table to ensure that Central New York’s voice is heard, including the need to protect vital transit funding for our communities.” When the bill passed out of the Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure, Rep. Katko ensured that it designated I-81 through Central New York as a ‘High Priority Corridor.’ This designation signifies the Committee’s recognition of the importance of I-81 to our region as well as to the national economy. Representative Katko also advocated for the following items included in the bill, which will be of benefit to CNY: Creation of a National Surface Transportation and Innovative Finance Bureau which will aid state and local governments in securing financing for projects, navigating the regulatory process, and the creation of public-private partnerships to aid in financing. This will make project delivery easier and more navigable for state and local governments, which has been a priority for Rep. Katko. Protects current highway funding formulas to ensure that states like New York don’t lose out on funding due to new means of allocating money. Provides states new flexibility in the use of funds for bridges that aren’t a part of the National Highway System, which is the case for the vast majority of bridges in NY-24. This will make it easier for states to fix bridges in need of repair that may not have received funding before. Continues grant programs for bus programs and facilities, which may be of benefit to agencies like Centro. Establishes a National Highway Freight Program, and a National Multimodal Freight Program to provide ways of breaking up freight bottlenecks around the country, and focus resources improving the nation’s freight infrastructure. All interstates, including I-81, are part of the National Highway Freight Program under the bill. Rep. Katko asked the Committee to consider the importance of multimodal programs to improve connectivity and the movement of goods and traffic. Requires a new federal rulemaking to protect bus operators from assault. A separate Katko amendment was also included in the bill to ensure that the Federal Highway Administration finalizes regulations to protect the lives and safety of construction workers and motorists in highway work zones. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
11.02.2015	Washington, D.C.—U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and Richard Hanna (NY-22) today released the below statement following the most recent news on FitzPatrick Nuclear Energy Plant: “We were incredibly disappointed to learn that Entergy announced its intent to close the FitzPatrick Nuclear Plant. As our community moves forward, we will do everything that we can to support FitzPatrick employees, their families, local leaders and all of Oswego County. There is no question that the plant’s closure would be a huge loss to our region. “Over the course of the past month, Entergy has been in talks with State of New York about the future of FitzPatrick. We hope the company will detail these conversations and inform the community as to what efforts were made to prevent the closure of the plant. “We also urge the company and the State to continue their dialogue in the hopes of reversing the decision. Absent a solution, our hope is that the company and the State will do everything possible to mitigate the challenges faced by the community.” ###
10.30.2015	Syracuse, NY - U.S. Rep. John Katko today announced the introduction of the Improving School Nutrition Training Act, bipartisan legislation which protects school nutrition professionals who manage and operate within the National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs. School nutrition professionals are now mandated to complete an annual nutrition training program if operating within the National School Meals Program. These training programs often occur during off hours and do not guarantee compensation. Representative Katko and Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-02) introduced the Improving School Nutrition Training Act to ensure that food service men and women are paid for time spent complying with federal mandates and given the ability to comply during regular, paid work hours. “Nutrition is a key aspect of ensuring the success of students in Central New York and nationwide,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “As the House begins to consider the reauthorization of the Child Nutrition Act, this legislation sets forth basic provisions to ensure that the individuals who work to make healthy meals in our schools are trained professionally and properly.” “Healthy bodies and minds are essential to setting every student in America toward a great future,” said National Education Association President Lily Eskelsen García. “Every day in schools across the country, food service employees are playing a key role in making sure students receive the healthiest meals possible. The Improving School Nutrition Training Act will ensure food service professionals receive the time and financial support they need to seek adequate professional training and continue their contribution to the education of the whole child, regardless of the zip code in which that child lives.” Specifically, this bipartisan legislation: Promotes hands-on, in-person training when appropriate. Ensures that training sessions occur primarily during work hours. When the training is unable to occur during scheduled work hours, ensures that employees are informed in advance and compensated appropriately. Prevents penalization of workers who are unable to attend training sessions outside of work hours. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed bipartisan legislation, H.R. 455, the Northern Border Security Review Act, introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24). This bill, the seventh sponsored by Katko to pass the House, would require the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a much-needed analysis of current and potential threats along our nation’s northern border. “While great attention is justifiably given to the challenges of securing our southern border, ensuring the safety of our vast northern border is also critical to our national security,” said Congressman Katko. “I served as a federal prosecutor on our border both at home in New York and in El Paso, Texas. I’ve seen first-hand the issues that our nation faces countering violent drug trafficking, organized crime, and potential terrorist acts.” The United States shares nearly 4,000 miles of border with Canada in the lower-48 states alone. However, a GAO report indicated that only 69 miles, or about 2%, of the Northern Border are currently under operational control. The assessment prescribed under this legislation will assist in determining the resources needed to increase operational control along the northern border. “I’ve spent time with Customs and Border Protection officers and Border Control agents in my district,” continued Rep. Katko. “This bill will help these officials address threats at and between ports of entry along the northern border.” Speaking on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this evening, Rep. Katko noted that several major terrorist plots have been uncovered and disrupted along the northern border in recent years. He also noted the significance of his recent work as Chair of the bipartisan Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel. “As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s bipartisan Task Force on Combating Foreign Fighter Travel, I’ve recently had the opportunity to conduct an in-depth examination of the vulnerabilities that we face at our northern border along with other gaps in our nation’s security,” concluded Rep. Katko. “Tough border security will ensure the safety of Upstate New York and the sovereignty of our nation. Requiring timely assessment of the threats posed by illegal entry on both the northern and southern border and adequately responding to these threats is crucial to making that happen.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
10.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today released the following statement on the proposed federal budget: “As I travel throughout the 24th Congressional District, meeting with individuals and families in our community, I continue to hear frustration from Central New Yorkers about the dysfunction in Washington. “Just last week, the partisanship was so severe in Washington that the President vetoed the national defense bill to achieve additional spending. This put our national security and our country’s overall budget process in a dangerous place. “I’ve heard the concerns of my constituents loud and clear. I was sent to Congress to fight through partisan gridlock and deliver results for Central New York. While the budget agreement before the House today is far from perfect, it moves us away from governing from crisis to crisis and from deadline to deadline to put us a sustainable path towards predictable government funding over the course of the next two fiscal years. “Importantly, this bipartisan budget protects our economy from a dangerous default. It strengthens the long-term solvency of Medicare and Social Security by eliminating abuse and fraud, making changes that will yield as much as $168 billion in savings. It will also prevent significant increases in Medicare premiums for seniors in NY-24. “This fully offset agreement strengthens our defense, rolls back harmful provisions in Obamacare, and rejects all increases in taxes proposed by the Obama Administration. “This bipartisan budget is not without flaws, but I believe that it provides us with the best means currently available to put our country on a path towards a normal, predictable budgeting process.
10.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Joined in Washington, D.C. this morning by the family of the late Bill Carey, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) delivered remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor the life of the beloved Central New York journalist. Video of Rep. Katko’s remarks can be found here. His remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: “Thank you Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the life of Bill Carey, a beloved Central New York television and radio journalist. “For over four decades, Bill’s familiar voice could be heard in households throughout Central New York. “His stories were always memorable. He possessed the stunning ability to transform ordinary news into a fascinating story. “As Sean Kirst of the Syracuse Post Standard recently wrote, ‘If Syracuse had a voice, it would sound like Bill Carey.’ And it’s true. “Bill’s love for his work earned him a special place in the hearts of hundreds of Central New Yorkers. “Less than a year ago, I was joined here, in Washington, by Bill on the day that I was sworn in to represent Central New York in the House of Representatives. When I looked up from the podium where the Speaker was administering my oath, Bill’s was a welcome face amongst a crowd of national reporters. “Today, I’m joined here by Bill’s beloved wife of more than forty years, MaryEllen, and his daughter, Joelle. “I’d like to tell them that Bill was a great reporter – and an even better friend. That he touched the lives of so many in our community. That he took genuine interest in every aspect of the stories that he covered -- his honesty, wit, and passion apparent in each piece. And most importantly, that Bill was loved by Central New York. “But they already know that. They know it from the tributes that ran on every news station in Central New York. They know it from the countless social media posts from the community that Bill touched through his storytelling. And they know it from the hundreds of Central New Yorkers who attended his services. “Bill made stories count. He will forever be remembered as one of the best journalists that our town has ever known.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
10.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), member of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure, today announced that the Committee has unanimously passed the bipartisan Surface Transportation Reauthorization & Reform Act, a long-term highway bill that addresses many of Central New York’s pressing infrastructure needs. Importantly, the bill will provide stability as NYSDOT moves forward with the Interstate 81 Rebuild. “I’ve consistently advocated for a long-term highway bill to fully provide for the pressing infrastructure needs of Central New York,” said Rep. John Katko, who has repeatedly raised the issue with House leadership and his colleagues on the Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. “This bill will break the cycle of short-term extensions that make planning and investment nearly impossible for our state and local governments.” At Representative Katko’s request, the bill designates I-81 through Central New York as a ‘High Priority Corridor.’ This signifies the Committee’s recognition of the importance of I-81 to Central New York as well as its importance to the national economy. “Local projects, especially the I-81 rebuild, require funding stability,” continued Katko. “This fiscally-responsible proposal delivers that stability so that Central New York can plan for the long term.” Significantly, the bill will make it easier for major projects, like the I-81 rebuild, to move forward by streamlining permitting and study requirements that often take years to complete. Representative Katko also advocated for the following items included in the bill, which will be of benefit to CNY: · Creation of a National Surface Transportation and Innovative Finance Bureau which will aid state and local governments in securing financing for projects, navigating the regulatory process, and the creation of public-private partnerships to aid in financing. This will make project delivery easier and more navigable for state and local governments, which has been a priority for Rep. Katko. · Protects current funding formulas to ensure that states like New York don’t lose out on funding due to new means of allocating money. · Provides states new flexibility in the use of funds for bridges that aren’t a part of the National Highway System, which is the case for the vast majority of bridges in NY-24. This will make it easier for states to fix bridges in need of repair that may not have received funding before. · Continues grant programs for bus programs and facilities, which may be of benefit to agencies like Centro. · Establishes a National Highway Freight Program, and a National Multimodal Freight Program to provide ways of breaking up freight bottlenecks around the country, and focus resources improving the nation’s freight infrastructure. All interstates, including I-81, are part of the National Highway Freight Program under the bill. Rep. Katko asked the Committee to consider the importance of multimodal programs to improve connectivity and the movement of goods and traffic. · Requires a new federal rulemaking to protect bus operators from assault. “This bill reduces red tape and streamlines regulations, while providing increased flexibility and predictability for our state so that we can preserve and expand our federal transportation investments. I am hopeful that we can move forward to pass this bill out of the House to ensure a long-term, sustainable solution,” concluded Katko. Since 2009, there have been 34 short term extensions to highway programs enacted by Congress. This bill, if ultimately enacted with a proper funding component, will provide a minimum of three years of stable transportation investment that keeps up with inflation and could provide as many as six uninterrupted years of funding authorization if reforms yield new sources of revenue for transportation programs. A separate Katko amendment was also included in the bill to ensure that the Federal Highway Administration finalizes regulations to protect the lives and safety of construction workers and motorists in highway work zones. While the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure authorized policies to keep transportation programs working nationwide, the House Committee on Ways and Means is tasked with determining the bill’s funding component. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
10.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Chris Gibson (NY-19), John Katko (NY-24,) and Elise Stefanik (NY-21) today released the following statement voicing their support for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY 2016: “The President has issued a veto threat and continues to use the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) as a bargaining chip to increase spending. We came to Congress to fight through precisely this type of gridlock. “As representatives for Central and Upstate New York in Congress, we urge the President to reconsider his veto threat and to sign the defense bill into law. “At a time when the United States faces a new age of ever-evolving threats at home and abroad, the NDAA authorizes funding to increase pay for service members and ensure that our military has the modern resources and support necessary to provide for the safety of our nation. From weapon systems that protect our men and women in uniform, to funding electric bills on base -- this bill represents everything the Department of Defense needs to keep Americans safe. Among the provisions are benefits for service members who currently receive no retirement, increased protections against sexual assault, and assistance to our foreign allies. “Upstate New York is home to Fort Drum and the 174th Attack Wing at Hancock Field. By failing to fund the Department of Defense, President Obama puts Fort Drum, New York’s largest single-site employer and one of the largest training bases in the U.S., at tremendous risk. A veto would also jeopardize the 174th Attack Wing, one of only three Formal Training Units for unmanned aircraft. In total, these bases contribute over one billion dollars annually to our region’s economy. That economic impact could abruptly end. “What’s more, many Upstate New York industries rely on defense dollars to keep their facilities open and large numbers of our constituents employed. Companies like Lockheed Martin, Harris Corp., Saab-Sensis, and SRC would be faced with the cold reality of the need to layoff valuable employees. “It is clear that a veto of this bill would not only put our national security at risk, but that it could irreversibly harm our regional economy. “This bill includes dollar-for-dollar what the President requested at the beginning of the year. Yet, the President has threated a veto. He continues to push an ambiguous foreign policy that alienates our closest allies and fails to adequately fund the Department of Defense. A veto of this bill would prevent pay and healthcare for our nation’s service members and force private sector companies to potentially lay-off thousands of workers. The President’s disregard for this legislation jeopardizes our service members around the world and here at home. “The federal government has no greater responsibility than providing for the common defense of U.S. citizens. We believe that it is imperative that the President – our Commander in Chief – stop playing partisan politics with our country’s national security and move quickly to sign this critical legislation into law. Congressman Chris Gibson represents the 19th Congressional District of New York and serves on the House Armed Services Committee. During his 24-year career in the U.S. Army, which included service at Fort Drum, Congressman Gibson deployed seven times and rose to the rank of Colonel. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, and serves on the House Committee on Homeland Security where he chairs the Subcommittee on Transportation Security. Congresswoman Elise Stefanik represents the 21st Congressional District of New York is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and Vice Chair for the Subcommittee on Readiness. She was the sole freshman negotiator on the bipartisan, bicameral NDAA conference committee. ####
10.20.2015	Syracuse, NY –U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that the Federal Bureau of Prisons will not relocate a Residential Reentry Center (RRC) and Home Detention Services, commonly known as a halfway house, to the Tipperary Hill neighborhood. Rep. Katko previously expressed grave concern for the relocation of the halfway house to the City of Syracuse’s Tipperary Hill neighborhood and outlined his position to the Federal Bureau of Prisons. “As a former federal prosecutor in the City of Syracuse, I fully understand and appreciate the need for comprehensive and regimented re-entry services. But a halfway house requires the support of its community,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “This historic neighborhood is home to countless families, young professionals, growing businesses, and churches. A halfway house is simply not conducive to the well-being and safety of this neighborhood.” In August, Rep. Katko outlined his concern to the Bureau of Prisons, noting the proximity of the potential site of the halfway house to the Syracuse Boys & Girls Club, a number of schools, churches of many faiths, libraries, family parks, and residences. He expressed concern that the location would not be ideal for a rehabilitation center. Rep. Katko thanked community advocates today for their hard work over the past two years, noting the efforts of the Tipperary Hill Neighborhood Association. Janice McKenna, President of the Tipperary Hill Neighborhood Association said, "The Tipperary Hill Neighborhood Association is very grateful to Congressman Katko and his staff for their efforts on our behalf on this halfway house issue. They heard our neighborhood when we said we did not want an RCC on Tipp Hill and then they took our concerns to the Bureau of Prisons. They also encouraged us to wage an aggressive letter-writing campaign voicing our opposition to this proposal and the neighborhood came through for us as well." “Since taking office in January, I have been contacted by many families, homeowners, and businesses in the Tipp Hill community who have worked to raise awareness of the impact the relocation of a halfway house would have on this residential neighborhood,” Rep. Katko continued, “It was clear to me that the perceived benefits were far outweighed by a multitude of risks. I had the opportunity to relay these concerns to the Federal Bureau of Prisons and I’m happy to announce that our advocacy has been successful.” The current RRC in Syracuse is operated by a non-for-profit, Firetree, and is located in an urban and commercial section of Erie Boulevard in the City of Syracuse. The Federal Bureau of Prisons was required to solicit competitive bids for the services, and Boston-based Community Resources for Justice had proposed relocating the halfway house to West Fayette Street in the Tipperary Hill neighborhood. The solicitation for the halfway house contract took into account community support, or lack thereof, as well as proximity to sensitive sites such as schools, churches, and residential neighborhoods. Firetree’s contract has been renewed and operations will continue at that location. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
10.20.2015	Rochester, N.Y. – U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Representative John Katko today announced $1,658,429 in federal funding for the Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Rochester. The grant was allocated through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Healthy Marriage and Education Grant Program to fund a new family initiative in Wayne County. Catholic Charities of Wayne County (CCWC), a sub-agency of the Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Rochester will launch the Thriving Family Program to provide services to help families, at-risk youth and unemployed and underemployed individuals in the region. “This federal grant will provide the Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Rochester’s Wayne County organization with the resources needed to continue providing support and educational services to families, young people and those looking for employment throughout the area,” said Senator Schumer. “Organizations like this are essential in providing New Yorkers with the training and help they need to get back on their feet and succeed.” “This critical federal funding through the Department of Health and Human Services will allow Catholic Charities of Wayne County to invest in additional resources to support programs for families in need,” said Senator Gillibrand. “I wrote to Secretary Burwell urging funding for new initiatives to expand more opportunities to help at-risk youth and unemployed individuals in the community.” “It is critical that we support the work of local organizations like Catholic Charities of Wayne County that do so much to put families and individuals in our community on the path to self-sufficiency,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “I’ve spent time working with the wonderful advocates at Catholic Charities in Wayne County, and was proud to support this application for funding. I’ll continue to work in Congress and at home in Central New York to help end multi-generational poverty and create a stronger community.” “Catholic Charities of Wayne County is most grateful to Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Senator Chuck Schumer, Rep. John Katko, and Rep. Louise Slaughter for their combined support in our securing a federal grant for our newly-created and collaborative Thriving Family Program in Wayne County,” said Peter S. Dohr, Executive Director and Inga Rojas, Director of Clinical Services. “We so appreciate our Senators' and Representatives' assistance in providing us the opportunity to introduce this innovative program to our area and improve the lives of individuals and families in our local communities for years to come!” Catholic Charities of Wayne County will work in partnership with six agencies through its new Thriving Family Program to bring new resources for case management, assessment, and family education services to County residents. CCWC in collaboration with Family Counseling Service of Finger Lakes, Literacy Volunteers, Victim Resource Center, Wayne County Action Program and Ad Council to use educational programs to foster increased economic stability and mobility. ###
10.15.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – At a ceremony this morning at Hancock Field Air National Guard Base, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) presented two veterans from the 24th Congressional District with medals and awards that they were due for their service in the U.S. Army. The two veterans, Anthony Tangretti and Gary K. Janis, served in WWII and Vietnam, respectively. Earlier this year, Representative Katko was contacted on separate occasions by Mr. Gary Janis, of Auburn, and by the family of Mr. Anthony Tangretti, of Syracuse. Representative Katko was able to start congressional inquiries on behalf of both veterans for their missing service awards. “Central New York veterans have put their lives on the line for our freedom and for our democracy -- and they deserve the best quality of care and service that we can provide,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “I am thankful for the service, dedication, and contributions that both Mr. Janis and Mr. Tangretti have made to our great nation and proud to honor them today with the awards that they are due for their service.” Mr. Janis was awarded, per orders, the Bronze Star, but never physically received the award during his military tenure. He had requested his award in October 2014 through a County agency, but his request was denied due to his inability to locate his service records. He contacted Representative Katko in June of this year for assistance in finding his records. Following a congressional inquiry to the National Personnel Record Center, Representative Katko was able to assist Mr. Janis in acquiring his service records, which prompted the Department of the Army to provide Mr. Janis with his earned Bronze Star. Congressman Katko this morning presented Janis with the Department of the Army’s Bronze Star Medal with a re-created certificate for his meritorious service in connection with military operations against a hostile force in the Republic of Vietnam, as well as the Cold War Recognition Certificate for honorable service to the U.S. during the Cold War period. Mr. Tangretti had never received his WWII occupation of Japan Medal. After a congressional inquiry by Representative Katko, he was presented today with this medal as well as well as a number of other awards that he was due. Tangretti was presented Department of the Army entitlement awards for WW II Victory Medal, Army of Occupation Medal with Japan Clasp, National Defense Service Medal, and Honorable Service Lapel Button –WWII. Representative Katko was joined today by U.S. Army officials from the 27th Infantry Brigade in presenting the awards. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
10.13.2015	Syracuse, NY – U.S. Representatives John Katko (NY-24) and Richard Hanna (NY-22) this week sent a letter to New York State Public Service Commission Secretary, Hon. Kathleen H. Burgess, urging the Public Service Commission to consider the effect that the closure of FitzPatrick Nuclear Plant would have on the regional economy of Central and Upstate New York, as well as the importance of clean, reliable, and efficient energy generation in Oswego County. The letter follows a rally hosted last week by Reps. Katko and Hanna, as well as state and local lawmakers. The text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Burgess, As you know, there are discussions underway at Entergy Corporation about whether to carry out a scheduled refueling of the FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant in Scriba, NY. The company cites difficult market conditions as a reason that it may decide against refueling the plant, and if that is indeed the decision, the plant will be forced to shut down. To the extent that the Public Service Commission becomes engaged on this issue, and in any future discussions over what may be done to make market conditions more favorable to the plant, we implore you to consider the effect that closure would have on the regional economy, and the importance of maintaining a diverse portfolio of emissions-free energy production in our state. The FitzPatrick plant accounts for 600 highly-technical, well-paid jobs that make up a very large portion of the region’s tax base. Closure of the plant would very likely force many laid-off employees to leave the area, which would further harm the local economy and result in the elimination of even more jobs. Additionally, property values could fall, which would further reduce the tax take and the money available to support public schools and other vital public services. FitzPatrick produces enough electricity to power 800,000 homes, and it does so without emitting any greenhouse gases. As the State pursues its ambitious goal of reducing carbon emissions by 80% by 2050, it will need a diverse array of emissions-free energy sources. FitzPatrick, and other nuclear facilities in the region will play a vital role in meeting these long term goals. We believe that this should be an important consideration as the state decides what it may do to maintain the plant’s production capacity. We have visited FitzPatrick, and seen firsthand the professionalism of its workforce. These men and women work tirelessly to ensure that the plant operates in a safe, efficient manner. These workers, and the families they support, are a credit to the community in Central New York, and we hope that all parties involved make every reasonable effort to keep this important source of clean energy and economic vitality open. Please let us know if we can be of any assistance on this, or any issue. We look forward to staying in touch. U.S. Rep. John Katko U.S. Rep. Richard Hanna ####
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced his steadfast commitment to ensuring that government remain open and that Congress continue to function, despite the current uncertainty in Washington surrounding changes in leadership and threats of a future government shutdown. Government shutdowns add to our nation’s deficit. Representative Katko today signed on as the Republican Lead on The Shutdown Prevention Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. Gwen Graham (D, FL-2) that implements a series of measures to alleviate the prospect of a government shutdown. “Central New Yorkers are frustrated. I’m committed to working in Congress to fight through Washington gridlock, and I am very proud to have already produced legislative results for my constituents,” said Rep. John Katko. “It is ok to have a debate, but as lawmakers, we have a duty to ensure that the government is funded and continues to run. That’s why I’ve introduced bipartisan legislation this week which would move us away from governing from crisis to crisis.” The legislation follows last week’s vote for a clean continuing resolution, which prevented government shutdown just hours before funding lapsed. Representative Katko’s bill was the vehicle for that measure. Specifically, the Shutdown Prevention Act would require that Congress take the following action in the event of a government shutdown: Within 24 hours of a government shutdown, any Member of Congress would be permitted to offer a clean, 30-day continuing resolution. During the ensuing 30-day period, travel funds for Members of Congress would be limited, Congressional recesses forbidden, and weekends limited to just two days. Members would be under these limits until they pass a funding bill through the end of the fiscal year. “There is no question that we have a heavy agenda ahead of us this Congress. We need to pass a long-term highway bill, negotiate a budget that meets the needs of the American people, and address our country’s growing deficit. This legislation will force Members of Congress to reach across the aisle to negotiate and will ensure that we recommit to addressing the priorities of the American people,” concluded Katko. Last month, Rep. Katko joined a number of his freshman colleagues in urging the entire House Republican Conference to pass a funding measure and avert a harmful and unnecessary government shutdown. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties, and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit Katko.house.gov or facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives tonight passed H.R. 3102, the Airport Access Control Security Improvement Act of 2015, legislation introduced by U.S. Representatives John Katko (R-NY-24) and Kathleen Rice (D-NY-04), Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security’s Transportation Security Subcommittee. Both freshmen members of Congress, Reps. Katko and Rice have focused on fighting through Washington gridlock to deliver bipartisan legislative outcomes. H.R. 3102 comes in response to several recent incidents in which airport and airline employees used their security credentials to bypass security screening and transport prohibited items, including illegal drugs and guns, into secure areas of airports and onto commercial flights. The legislation will streamline and strengthen the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) screening procedures for airport and airline employees by requiring the TSA Administrator to establish a risk-based, intelligence-driven screening model that subjects employees to more frequent, more randomized security screenings and minimizes the number of employee entry and exit points. H.R. 3102 also directs the TSA Administrator to determine whether TSA should expand the number of criminal offenses that disqualify an individual from obtaining a job that requires access to secure areas of airports, as well as to determine whether TSA should lengthen the “look-back period” when reviewing an individual’s criminal history. “Threats to our aviation sector continue to evolve, as evidenced by the recent security breaches at airports nationwide where airport and airline employees have been able to bypass security and smuggle drugs, illegal substances, and guns into secure areas of domestic airports,” said Representative John Katko. "This legislation presents commonsense reforms to address these gaps in security and ensure the safety of the traveling public." “As several recent incidents have shown, weak access controls can too easily allow airport and airline employees to sneak weapons, drugs and other dangerous items into secure areas of airports and onto commercial flights, and that’s a risk we simply cannot accept,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “In response to the Aviation Security Advisory Committee’s recommendations and the bipartisan investigations we’ve conducted on the Transportation Security Subcommittee, this legislation takes action to tighten access controls, beef up employee vetting and screening, and better protect the millions of passengers who pass through our nation’s airports and fly on our planes. I’m grateful to Chairman Katko for his leadership on the Subcommittee, and I’m eager to work together to ensure this bill is taken up by our colleagues in the Senate and sent to the President’s desk.” Specifically, this legislation: Requires TSA to develop procedures for risk-based screening of airport and airline employees. Makes critical reforms to the employee screening process to ensure those who have access to our nation’s airports do not pose a threat. Provides additional law-enforcement resources to screen employees. Establishes an oversight framework to ensure Congress can closely monitor improvements surrounding employee vetting and screening Codifies an important set of recommendations offered by the Aviation Security Advisory Committee (ASAC), which includes industry stakeholders and TSA. Over the last few months, ASAC has conducted a review of these issues. Reps. Katko and Rice serve as the Chairman and Ranking Member, respectively, of the Transportation Security Subcommittee, which has sole jurisdiction over all Transportation Security Administration (TSA) security matters, including the security of passengers and cargo within the U.S. aviation system and TSA’s work to secure various modes of surface transportation such as mass transit systems, railroads, trucks, and pipelines. Reps. Katko and Rice have led the Committee’s effort this Congress to address employee access control issues. This oversight has complemented a broader and ongoing review of TSA’s operations, policies and procedures. The Subcommittee’s oversight over these instances revealed: shortcomings in employee vetting, improper use of employee credentials, and a range of challenges that have inhibited employee screening. Rep. Katko represents New York’s 24th congressional district, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties, and a portion of Oswego County. Rep. Rice represents New York’s fourth congressional district, which is located on Long Island and includes parts of south and central Nassau County. ###
10.05.2015	OSWEGO, NY – Federal, state, and local officials tonight joined over one thousand concerned FitzPatrick Nuclear Plant employees, their families, and community members to express support for FitzPatrick. Earlier this month, Entergy officials announced that the plant may not be refueled. Together with leaders from IBEW Local 97, Operation Oswego County, and Mexico Academy and Central School District, U.S. Reps. John Katko (NY-24) and Richard Hanna (NY-22), State Senator Patty Ritchie (48th District), Assemblymen Robert Oaks (130th District) and Will Barclay (120th District), and Oswego County Legislature Chairman Kevin Gardner gathered to show support for the hundreds of highly technical jobs that the plant provides and for carbon-free and efficient energy. “There is no question that the loss of FitzPatrick nuclear energy plant would affect not only Oswego County, but our entire Central New York region,” said U.S. Representative John Katko at tonight’s rally. “Tonight, we heard that message loud and clear from hundreds of FitzPatrick employees, their families, and community members. We’re here to support these individuals tonight – and in the future.” “FitzPatrick is part of the makeup of this community,” U.S. Representative Richard Hanna said. “It is a place where our neighbors work, a place that supplies clean energy to so many in this region, and it is a place that needs to not only stay in Oswego County, but continue to thrive in Oswego County. We stand today in support of keeping FitzPatrick open.” “From people who work at the plant to representatives of the businesses and organizations that rely on the economic boost it provides, the hundreds of people at tonight’s rally sent a strong message to Entergy – we need FitzPatrick to remain in Central New York,” expressed State Senator Patty Ritchie. “Tonight’s rally however is just the first step. It’s my hope that moving forward, we can harness this momentum and continue our joint efforts to work together and save FitzPatrick.” “The great turnout here tonight illustrates our community’s support for the FitzPatrick plant and its employees,” said Assemblyman Will Barclay. “This clear showing of solidarity should send a message to Entergy, the Governor and other New York state policymakers that we need to do what we can to keep the plant in operation and encourage nuclear energy in New York state. Keeping FitzPatrick open is good for our area, our environment, and our economy.” “I am pleased to be joining with numerous leaders and citizens throughout our region to support the on-going operation of the FitzPatrick Nuclear Power plant,” Assemblyman Bob Oaks continued. “It is critical for our economy, Oswego County, and our future energy needs.” “FitzPatrick is at the core of helping to create a sustainable Oswego County,” said Oswego County Legislature Chairman Kevin Gardner. “I’m happy to join with our federal and state employees tonight, as well as our local partners, to show the strong support that FitzPatrick has in our community.” “The vitality of our region depends on the economic boost and jobs that FitzPatrick Nuclear Plant supports,” stated Michael Treadwell, Executive Director of Operation Oswego County. “We all know what’s at stake here, and we’ll be continuing to fight alongside one another to keep Entergy in Central New York.” Superintendent of Mexico Academy and Central School District Sean Bruno said, “I’m grateful for the opportunity tonight to be a part of this rally, to express our support and gratitude for FitzPatrick and all of its employees, and to support them in this time of uncertainty. Their dedication to this community and our school, and the role they have here in Oswego County, is evident once again here tonight.” “It is refreshing to see our local elected officials take such a proactive approach to try and address this issue,” expressed IBEW Local 97 President and Business Manager Theodore Skerpon. “Even though Entergy has not notified the state of its intent to close, it is imperative that we start looking for ways to make sure our Nuclear Stations are part of the REV initiative and operate well into the future. All state officials need to take note as to what was said were today in order to secure New York State’s future to supply safe, reliable, low emission power and continue to provide employment that helps support and grow the economy.” Hundreds of highly skilled men and women from across Central and Upstate New York are currently employed at FitzPatrick, with salaries that average over $80,000. With an additional 1,000 specialty jobs created at the plant during its biannual fueling, these technical jobs support a great number of Oswego County families. FitzPatrick also provides upwards of $18 million in property tax revenue and makes thousands of dollars in charitable contributions annually to local community events and not-for-profit organizations in the region. Community members are encouraged to tweet #SaveFitzPatrick to support keeping the plant in Central New York. ####
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Less than one week after his first bill was signed into law by President Obama, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that the TSA Office of Inspection Accountability Act has been signed into Public Law. The legislation ensures that employee qualifications for high-pay positions within the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) match job descriptions. The legislation was the vehicle for the Continuing Resolution for Fiscal Year 2016, which will ensure that funding is provided to keep the government open. “I’ve worked alongside my colleagues on both sides of the aisle this Congress to help bolster security and improve productivity in our nation’s airports – and I’m happy to announce that the President has signed into law commonsense, bipartisan legislation to reform TSA practices and ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent efficiently,” said Rep. Katko. Two years ago, the Department of Homeland Security’s Inspector General (IG) found that the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) could not confirm that individuals working under the title of ‘Criminal Investigator’ had the requisite qualifications for TSA law enforcement positions. The IG’s report noted that the TSA’s misclassification of these employees would cost taxpayers as much as $17 million over five years if left uncorrected. Katko’s legislation corrects the misclassification by requiring TSA investigators to spend at least 50 percent of their time conducting criminal investigations in order to receive premium law enforcement pay, training, and benefits. “This legislation clarifies TSA employee position descriptions so that wage matches workload and position,” continued Katko. “I will continue to work in Congress to fight for these types of reforms to protect hard-earned taxpayer dollars and ensure that government agencies are held accountable.” Representative Katko chairs the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation Security Subcommittee. In this role, he has focused extensively this Congress on ensuring safety and efficiency for travelers across the country. Of the twelve bills that Representative Katko has introduced in the House of Representatives this Congress, this is the second that has been signed into law. Alongside his bipartisan efforts on the House Committee on Homeland Security, Rep. Katko has introduced and championed district-inspired legislation to stimulate local tourism, develop the nation’s first Mesothelioma Patient Registry Act, secure our northern border, and prevent the IRS from wasting taxpayer dollars. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chair of the House Homeland Security Committee’s bipartisan Foreign Fighter Task Force, today joined House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul and other members of the Task Force to publicly release their final report on combating terrorists and foreign fighter travel. “This task force has devoted six months to examining the dangers of foreign fighter travel and America’s strategy to combat this multifaceted global threat,” said Republican Lead, Rep. John Katko (R-NY). “We are seeing a surge of foreign fighters from Western Europe and the U.S. These individuals make terrorist groups like ISIS stronger, they pose the threat of bringing their terror skills back home, and they have the capability to radicalize others online from abroad.” The Foreign Fighter Task Force, commissioned in March by Chairman McCaul, was formed in response to the evolving threat posed by extremists fighting overseas. The six-month review was the most comprehensive, public assessment of U.S. government efforts to counter terrorist travel since the 9/11 Commission’s final report. It included 16 member briefings and site visits, 29 staff briefings, and travel to 6 foreign countries, including Israel, Iraq, Turkey, Germany, Belgium and France. “The United States lacks a comprehensive plan to address the threat of foreign fighters,” continued Katko, “As we move forward to implement the findings of this report, it is critical that we focus on boosting global intelligence measures, producing an updated national strategy, halting the online recruitment of Americans by terrorist groups, and encouraging more efficient information sharing between state, local and federal law enforcement.” “I commend Congressman Katko for leading the Task Force on this serious homeland security issue, a grave and growing threat from foreign fighters,” said Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10). “Sadly, global efforts have failed to stop the flow of these aspiring jihadists into Syria, and we have already seen ‘returnees’ from the conflict zone come home to America and Europe and plot acts of terror. Even more, those still on the battlefield are radicalizing their peers online and inciting them to launch homegrown attacks. In light of the Task Force’s findings, I urge American leaders to develop a strategy to combat terrorist and foreign fighter travel and eliminate the ISIS threat." Among the findings, the report shows that gaping security weaknesses overseas—especially in Europe—are putting the U.S. homeland in danger by making it easier for foreign fighters to migrate to terrorist hotspots and for jihadists to return to the West. Key findings include: Despite concerted efforts to stem the flow, the U.S. government has largely failed to stop Americans from traveling overseas to join jihadists. Of the hundreds of Americans who have sought to travel to the conflict zone in Syria and Iraq, authorities have only interdicted a fraction of them. The U.S. government lacks a national strategy for combating terrorist travel and has not produced one in nearly a decade. Gaping security weaknesses overseas—especially in Europe—are putting the U.S. homeland in danger by making it easier for aspiring foreign fighters to migrate to terrorist hotspots and for jihadists to return to the West. Katko concluded, “Combating this ever-evolving terrorist threat will require a smart, coordinated, and international effort. I thank Chairman McCaul and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their commitment to this long-term fight.” The full report can be found here. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), has been signed into Public Law by President Obama. Of the twelve bills that Representative Katko has introduced in the House of Representatives this Congress, this bill is the first that has been signed into law. “I’m proud to announce that the President has signed into law this important, bipartisan legislation to mitigate threats at our nation’s airports,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Named in honor of the TSA agent who tragically lost his life in the November 2013 shooting at Los Angeles International Airport, this measure will allow for better coordination by our state, local, and federal law enforcement in responding to and assessing threats.” Since taking office in January, Rep. Katko has focused on fighting through Washington gridlock to deliver bipartisan legislative outcomes. To date, Katko has introduced twelve bills, four of which have passed the U.S. House of Representatives. As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation Security subcommittee, he has worked in a bipartisan manner to lead the Committee’s efforts to address gaps in the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) employee access screening and vetting procedures, and as a result, has put forth legislation prioritizing the safety of travel for all Americans. “While there is still much to be done to enhance security measures at airports nationwide, increasing preparedness requirements will go a long way in helping to ensure that the traveling public is kept safe,” concluded Katko. “Coordination by local law enforcement, emergency first responders, and TSA is the first step towards helping our nation’s transportation systems overcome the challenges experienced during the LAX shooting.” The legislation requires enhanced security and communication at airports nationwide. Specifically, it requires TSA to verify that all airports and high-risk surface transportation hubs have an appropriate security response plan in place to effectively train for and respond to security incidents when they occur. Further, it will ensure that emergency communications equipment is regularly tested and that emergency first-responders are able to communicate with each other and the public during a major security incident. Katko commended his colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their work on this effort, noting that that the legislation not only improves airport security but also demonstrates that Washington can still work in a bipartisan way. Alongside his efforts on the House Committee on Homeland Security, Rep. Katko has introduced and championed district-inspired legislation to stimulate local tourism, develop the nation’s first Mesothelioma Patient Registry Act, secure our northern border, and prevent the IRS from wasting taxpayer dollars. Click here for video of Rep. Katko’s remarks on this legislation on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives last week after the bill passed both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate. Congressman John Katko chairs the House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Transportation Security. He represents the 24thCongressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties, and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit Katko.house.gov or facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.23.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – In a call with the nation’s top transportation official, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) outlined a series of infrastructure projects critical to the future of Central New York, including the Interstate 81 rebuild. Katko also expressed to U.S. Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx his commitment to producing a long-term highway bill. Following the call, Rep. Katko stated, “I had the privilege of speaking directly with Secretary Foxx on local projects of importance, and I appreciate his willingness to learn more about the infrastructure needs of our region. I am committed to providing a strong voice for Central New York on local infrastructure projects – and especially on the reconstruction of Interstate 81. ” Since taking office in January, Rep. Katko has fostered an ongoing discussion with local, state, and federal leaders on the Interstate 81 reconstruction project. He has met with numerous constituents, businesses, and civic groups on local concerns associated with this project. Earlier this year, he urged the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) to ensure that a full range of options for the Interstate 81 reconstruction project were included in the New York state’s final scoping document for further study. “The I-81 reconstruction project is a once-in-a-generation decision that will shape our community’s infrastructure and economy for decades to come,” continued Katko. “I expressed to Secretary Foxx the importance of getting this project right for Central New York, and emphasized my willingness to be a partner for DOT.” In addition to focusing on regional infrastructure, Rep. Katko highlighted the importance of delivering a sustainable, long-term highway bill as soon possible. “Like Secretary Foxx, I am committed to working in a bipartisan manner to find a long-term solution to transportation funding so that we can provide stability and certainty for our local, state, and national infrastructure planning purposes. I look forward to working with him as we move forward to produce a comprehensive bill,” concluded Katko. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. He currently serves on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), has passed both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate and has been sent to the President for signature. This legislation is named in honor of Gerardo Hernandez, a TSA agent who tragically lost his life in the November 2013 shooting at Los Angeles International Airport. Transportation Security Officer Hernandez was shot and killed by an active shooter, becoming the first TSA employee to be killed in the line of duty. Two other Transportation Security Officers and a passenger were also injured during the attack. Since taking office in January, Rep. Katko has focused on fighting through Washington gridlock to deliver bipartisan legislative outcomes. As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Transportation Security subcommittee, Representative Katko held six hearings to date, the most of any subcommittee on the Committee on Homeland Security. He has worked in a bipartisan manner to lead the Committee’s effort to address gaps in the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) employee access screening and vetting procedures, and as a result, has put forth legislation prioritizing the safety of travel for all Americans. “The tragic shooting at LAX in 2013 is a reminder that there is still much work to be done to enhance security measures at our domestic airports, especially when it comes to coordinating our local, state, and federal law enforcement efforts in responding to these incidents,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “This legislation makes important strides in enhancing preparedness to mitigate threats in our nation’s airports.” The legislation addresses gaps in security at domestic airports by requiring enhanced security and communication at airports nationwide. Specifically, it requires TSA to verify that all airports and high-risk surface transportation hubs have an appropriate security response plan in place to effectively train for and respond to security incidents when they occur. Further, it will ensure that emergency communications equipment is regularly tested and that emergency first-responders are able to communicate with each other and the public during a major security incident. “Developing preparedness in our airports will go a long way in helping to ensure that the traveling public is kept safe. Improving the response to threats to public safety will allow our nation’s transportation systems to overcome the challenges that were experienced by law enforcement, emergency first responders, TSA, and the public during the LAX shooting.” concluded Katko. Click here for video of Rep. Katko’s remarks on this legislation on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman John Katko chairs the House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Transportation Security. He represents the 24thCongressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties, and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit Katko.house.gov or facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.16.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – Joined by a number of Vietnam veterans and local veterans outreach groups today at the Onondaga County War Memorial, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) announced legislation that he will introduce in the U.S. House of Representatives creating a task force to explore ways to help provide care and compensation for veterans who have been exposed to Agent Orange. The Lawrence J. Hackett Jr. Vietnam Veterans Agent Orange Fairness Act is legislation named in honor of Vietnam Veteran and Central New York native, Sergeant Lawrence Hackett, who lost his battle with cancer from Agent Orange exposure in 2006. Katko was joined today in announcing the legislation by Hackett’s wife, Alice, as well as family friend, Onondaga County Court Judge Joseph Fahey. “Our veterans have put their lives on the line to defend our freedom and our democracy,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “But hundreds of our nation’s veterans who were exposed to Agent Orange have lost their lives or suffer today from its unintended side effects. Veterans like Larry Hackett, and their families, deserve to be adequately compensated for their exposure to this chemical.” Agent Orange, a chemical defoliant used during the Korean and Vietnam wars, has left a large number of veterans who served in these wars with life-threatening diseases and cancers, including Hodgkin’s Disease, Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, Parkinson’s Disease, lung and skin cancers, and Chronic B-cell Leukemia. There is also increasing evidence that many of the children and grandchildren of these veterans suffer from Spina Bifida, birth defects, and other illnesses. While many of our nation’s veterans and their families have been greatly impacted by these diseases, many currently do not qualify for the presumption of coverage and lack the necessary benefits to compensate for their service. “This legislation creates a task force to assess the impact of this toxic chemical on our veteran’s population, and will help ensure that the VA takes greater responsibility for the deadly consequences of exposure to Agent Orange,” continued Katko. “This bill honors the life and legacy of the late Larry Hackett, and will hopefully help the veterans and their families who currently suffer.” The task force established by Katko’s legislation would require the VA to conduct a comprehensive review and make recommendations about care and compensation based on exposure for veterans and their families. It forms a national outreach campaign to educate veterans on the medical risks associated with Agent Orange exposure. “I will continue to work to raise awareness on the impact Agent Orange has had on veterans in our community, and across our nation,” concluded Katko. “I remain committed to recognizing Central New York’s service members and veterans for their service and ensuring that they receive the best possible care.” This legislation was previously introduced during the 113th Congress by former Rep. Dan Maffei. Representative Katko was joined today in announcing this legislation by representatives from Clear Path for Veterans, Syracuse University’s Institute for Veterans and Military Families, the Vietnam Veterans of America Central New York Chapter, and the Marine Corps League. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.15.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – As part of his continued focus on combating poverty in Central New York, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today visited several organizations and community outreach groups that provide meals and nutrition aid, human services, educational and literacy outreach, and homelessness assistance programming. “As Central New York’s Representative in Congress, I’ve made it a priority to raise awareness and focus on finding solutions to the devastating rate of poverty in our community,” said Rep. John Katko today during a visit to the First English Lutheran Church Food Pantry in the City of Syracuse. “That’s why I’m spending today visiting some of the many excellent organizations in Central New York committed to helping individuals and families in our community rise out of poverty.” Since taking office in January, Rep. Katko has prioritized poverty and education in our community, noting that Syracuse has one of the highest child poverty rates of any major upstate New York city with a graduation rate in Syracuse city schools below 50 percent. “Poverty hurts all of Central New York – not just those who live it every day. This is an epidemic that requires our entire community’s attention,” continued Katko. “We need to create strong educational and job opportunities so that individuals living in poverty can take steps into personal achievement and economic stability.” In addition to visiting the First English Lutheran Church Food Bank, Congressman Katko has stops planned today at Meals on Wheels of Syracuse, Catholic Charities, and will end the day serving a meal at the Samaritan Center. “There is no question that there is work to do in Washington to help effect positive change, but service organizations throughout our community are on the front lines each day helping to put individuals and families living in poverty on the path to self-sufficiency,” concluded Rep. Katko. “I’m proud to stand beside some of these organizations today to help them in their work to help end multi-generational poverty and create a stronger Central New York.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.11.2015	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today issued the following statement in remembrance of September 11, 2001: “Today marks fourteen years since the deadly terror attacks on our nation on September 11, 2001. “We remember the thousands of innocent men and women who lost their lives that day, the brave first responders who gave their own lives to save others, and the many service men and women who have put their lives on the line in defense of our great nation, as well as those who have made the ultimate sacrifice in protection of our freedom and our democracy. “Earlier this week, I had the opportunity to visit Ground Zero to pay tribute to all of the lives lost on September 11th in New York, in Washington, D.C., and in Pennsylvania, and to honor the many first responders and heroic volunteers who still suffer from 9/11-related debilitating and life-threatening illnesses. It is imperative that we continue to care for those who put their lives on the line to help save the lives of others. That’s why I’m proud to support the reauthorization of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act in Congress. “There is no question that the threat of global terrorism is very real today. We must remain ever vigilant in this new age of terrorism as we work to keep our nation safe. “May we always remember this day, and may it unite as a nation in courage and greatness. On Tuesday, September 8, 2015, Rep. Katko joined members of the House Homeland Security Committee held the first-ever hearing at the 9/11 Memorial Museum in lower Manhattan. This hearing, ‘Beyond Bin Laden's Caves and Couriers to A New Generation of Terrorists: Confronting the Challenges in a Post 9/11 World’, focused on the current terrorism threat environment and the importance of adapting to a new generation of terrorists. It included testimony from former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, NYPD Commissioner Bill Bratton, FDNY Commissioner Daniel Nigro, President of the September 11th Families’ Association Lee Ielpi, and President of the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives Gregory A Thomas. Photos from this hearing are below, and the full committee hearing is available here.
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today issued the following statement announcing his opposition to the proposed nuclear agreement with Iran: “I have had concerns with the Iran Nuclear Agreement from the outset. Since that time, I have had the opportunity to study the proposed agreement and judge it on its merits, with input from my constituents across Central New York. Ultimately, there are many aspects of this deal that I simply do not agree with. “Iran remains the largest state sponsor of terrorism in the world. Yet, this deal fails to shut off Iran’s path to a nuclear weapon. It hands out billions of dollars in sanction relief, but fails to demand the release of the four Americans still being held hostage in Iran. And, it lifts arms and ballistic missile embargoes but fails to allow immediate inspection of current and suspected nuclear sites. “Ultimately, this deal gives far too many concessions to Iran without providing safeguards for the United States and for our allies in the region and beyond. The long-term consequences could be devastating. “While proponents of this agreement may argue that the only alternative to approving this deal is war, I disagree. Iran began these negotiations because of economic sanctions. I believe that continuing diplomatic efforts would result in a better deal – one that continues to put economic pressure on Iran, demands renunciation of nuclear arms ambitions, and prioritizes the return of the Americans being held hostage. This administration should be sent back to the negotiating table. “Public concern over this agreement has heightened and opposition has grown across party lines in Congress. Meanwhile, Iranian leaders publicly attack the United States, leading “Death to America” chants and making grave threats towards our nation and our allies. “This deal risks the safety and security of our nation and it is one that I cannot support.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
09.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today announced that the Syracuse Youth Substance Abuse Prevention Coalition (YSAP) will receive $125,000 in federal funding to continue its work in the City of Syracuse to prevent youth substance use. The Prevention Network will be the fiduciary agent for this grant. “Increased heroin and opioid use among Syracuse youth remains a significant threat to the future of Central New York,” said Congressman John Katko. “The grassroots efforts of the Syracuse Youth Substance Abuse Prevention Coalition (YSAP) go a long way in helping to educate our community and to prevent youth substance abuse. This funding will allow the YSAP to continue its work while increasing community-based outreach and collaborations to effect positive change in Syracuse.” The Syracuse Youth Abuse Prevention Coalition Steering Committee applauded the announcement stating, “This grant is the result of the time, effort and resources dedicated by our numerous community volunteers. It will further allow us to address the many underlying causes of youth substance abuse in the city of Syracuse.” The Syracuse Youth Substance Abuse Prevention Coalition is a community partnership made up of youth, parents, law enforcement, businesses, schools, healthcare professionals, and a number of concerned community members and organizations, that serves individuals and families in the City of Syracuse with the goal of strengthening community collaborations to combat and prevent youth substance abuse. The Coalition focuses on community and youth education, as well as bolstering enforcement of drug and alcohol laws and regulations. This funding will allow the Coalition to provide training and skill building to coalition members to reduce underage use of alcohol, marijuana, synthetic drugs and prescription drugs or opioids. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
08.24.2015	Syracuse, NY – U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today expressed grave concern for the relocation of a Residential Reentry Center (RRC) and Home Detention Services, commonly known as a halfway house, to the City of Syracuse’s Tipperary Hill Neighborhood. Rep. Katko this week outlined his position in a phone call with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. “The Tipperary Hill neighborhood is a historic gem in Central New York. It is home to countless families, young professionals, and growing businesses - and draws numerous tourists to the neighborhood each year,” said Rep. John Katko. “A halfway house is simply not conducive to the vitality and well-being of the existing neighborhood. That’s why I’ve made the continued safety of this neighborhood a top priority.” The current RRC in Syracuse is operated by a non-for-profit, Firetree, and is located in an urban and commercial section of Erie Boulevard in the City of Syracuse. Because Firetree’s contract recently expired, the Federal Bureau of Prisons is obligated to solicit competitive bids to renew services in Syracuse. Boston-based Community Resources for Justice recently proposed relocating the halfway house to West Fayette Street in the Tipperary Hill neighborhood. During the call, Rep. Katko outlined that Tipperary Hill is one of the oldest, most treasured neighborhoods in the heart of the City of Syracuse. He expressed concern for the damage that this project could have on the revitalization efforts in our City, and noted theproximity of the potential site of the halfway house to the Syracuse Boys & Girls Club, a number of schools, churches of many faiths, libraries, familyparks, and residences. “For over sixteen years, I served as a federal prosecutor in Syracuse and I fully understand and appreciate the need for comprehensive and regimented re-entry services in our community,” continued Katko. “But I see no immediate or apparent reason for the relocation of our current halfway house -- especially when it could jeopardize the safety of young children and families in our community. I also have concerns that this location is less than ideal for a rehabilitation center. It is clear to me that the perceived benefits of this relocation are far outweighed by a multitude of risks.” The solicitation for a halfway house contract takes into account community support, or lack thereof, as well as proximity to sensitive sites such as schools, churches, and residential neighborhoods. Since taking office in January, Rep. John Katko’s District Office has received numerous letters from Tipperary Hill families, business owners, and residents expressing their opposition to the relocation of a halfway house to the Tipperary HillNeighborhood. Rep. Katko has conferred regularly with Tipperary Hill Neighborhood Association President Janice McKenna, Common Councilor Chad Ryan, and County Legislator Chris Ryan on the status of this proposal. “I have been contacted by dozens of families, homeowners, and businesses in the Tipp Hill community who have worked tirelessly over the past two years to fight against the relocation of a halfway house to their neighborhood. I echoed these concerns to the Federal Bureau of Prisons, and I will continue to supportthese advocacy efforts,” concluded Katko. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today introduced bipartisan legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives to establish a national mesothelioma patient registry. The ‘Mary Jo Lawyer Spano Mesothelioma Patient Registry Act of 2015’ is district-focused legislation named in honor of Mary Jo Lawyer Spano, a Central New York woman who late last year lost her four-year battle with mesothelioma, an asbestos-related form of cancer that affects the lining the lungs, chest, heart, and abdomen. Spano’s sister, Meg Meccariello, who also suffers from mesothelioma, and mother, Elizabeth Lawyer, met with Rep. Katko early this Congress to advocate for the development of a National Mesothelioma Patient Registry. “Unlike many chronic and rare diseases, there is currently no national registry available for mesothelioma patients,” said Rep. John Katko. “These registries collect and consolidate information about individuals who suffer from the disease and provide health care professionals, researchers, and patients with the ability to search information about diagnosis, as well as track disease trends, risk-factors, and treatment availability.” Spano’s father, Charles Lawyer, worked for an elevator company where he was exposed to asbestos and developed mesothelioma. Sadly, Lawyer’s family was also exposed to asbestos fibers from his body and clothing. Meccariello, a former nurse educator at St. Joseph’s Hospital Health Center in Syracuse, continues to receive chemotherapy and hopes that the creation of a national registry will give patients nationwide the hope to work towards a “new” normal way of life, even while recovering from mesothelioma. Katko’s legislation creates the National Mesothelioma Patient Registry, a self-enrolled public database, which will collect and house information about individuals living with mesothelioma. “In addition to promoting and coordinating research efforts to better treat and combat mesothelioma, the creation of a national registry will help raise awareness and advocacy, expand resources and support networks, and provide hope for families like those of Mary Jo Lawyer Spano,” concluded Katko. Rep. Katko’s legislation to create a national mesothelioma registry has the support of national organizations and stakeholders, including the Mesothelioma Applied Research Foundation and the International Association of Heat and Frost Insulators and Allied Workers. “For many diseases, the addition of a patient registry has been the missing catalyst toward accelerating progress. We expect that mesothelioma will also see life-saving treatment advances as a result of this bill,” said Melinda Kotzian, the chief executive officer for the Mesothelioma Applied Research Foundation. Information from the registry will be used to facilitate and enhance research on mesothelioma, specifically by allowing: Development and revision of standards of care and treatment for mesothelioma patients; Sharing of evidence-based information between physicians across the United States; Implementation of benchmarks to improve care in mesothelioma clinics; and Identification of centers that provide the most beneficial care to patients. The bill has bipartisan support, and Rep. Katko was joined by Reps. Jan Schakowisky (D-IL), Chris Collins (R-NY), Peter King (R-NY), Joe Kennedy (D-MA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), and Leonard Lance (R-NJ) in introducing today’s legislation. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties, and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit Katko.house.gov orfacebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S.Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security, had two bipartisan bills, H.R. 2750- the Improved Security Vetting for Aviation Workers Act of 2015 and H.R. 2843- the TSA PreCheck Expansion Act, pass the House Monday evening. Since taking office in January, Rep. Katko has authored four bills that have passed the U.S. House of Representatives. “The Department of Homeland Security Inspector General issued a report in June which found that a stunning 73 aviation workers have ties to terrorism,” said Rep. John Katko. “Working in a bipartisan way, our committee promptly investigated the matter, held a hearing, and responded with H.R. 2750. The House also passed H.R. 2843, which enhances and expands TSA PreCheck, a program that allows for expedited screening of passengers in a more secure manner. With the passage of these bills we have taken a step towards making the national airspace and airports safer for the American traveler.” Passage of these bills comes after systemic failures have been found surrounding security at our nation’s airports. H.R. 2750, the Improved Security Vetting for Aviation Workers Act of 2015, strengthens the vetting of employees who have sensitive access within airports H.R. 2843, the TSA PreCheck Expansion Act, expands enrollment, marketing, and identity verification for the PreCheck program “The bipartisan support for my bills shows that airport security is a serious and important issue that extends beyond party lines.” Katko said. Chairman McCaul said, “I commend Representative Katko for championing two vital aviation security bills which hold TSA accountable by ensuring security within United States airports and strengthening the vetting process of credentialed aviation workers, who have access to sensitive areas of airports. Today, the House took a significant step in the Congressional oversight of DHS and I encourage our counterparts in the Senate to pass this important legislation.” Rep. John Katko chairs the Subcommittee on Transportation Security which has jurisdiction over the Transportation Security Administration. He has already passed H.R. 719, the TSA Office of Inspection Accountability Act, and H.R. 720, the Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act. Congressman John Katko chairs the House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Transportation Security. He represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties, and a portion of Oswego County. For more information,please visit Katko.house.gov or facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee, presided over the passage of three measures out of the subcommittee to improve systemic screening problems at airports and conduct Congressional oversight of the TSA. Among the passed bills was H.R. 3102, the “Airport Access Control Security Act of 2015”, which Rep. Katko authored. “I am pleased to have strong bipartisan support for H.R. 3102. Keeping the traveling public safe is the mission of this subcommittee, and I look forward to continuing to push commonsense reforms to improve traveler safety,” said Rep. John Katko. Following several incidents involving the illicit trafficking of drugs and guns by employees at airports, H.R. 3102 was introduced last week to improve security standards for airport employees. The legislation followed months of committee oversight conducted by Transportation Security Subcommittee. Katko continued, “This bill represents a significant step forward. In this threat environment we clearly have a responsibility to act. Our committee identified several security threats and acted deliberately and effectively to address these issues. Going forward, we need to continue our bipartisan dialogue with airports, employees, and other stakeholders. We must continue to address these issues in order to avert other future security breaches and make our airports a safer and more secure place to work.” H.R. 3102 directs TSA to establish a risk-based screening model at airports across the United States, which will help ensure that individuals with access to secure areas are authorized to have such access and are deterred from posing a threat to aviation. Also passed out of Subcommittee was H.R. 3144, the Partners for Aviation Security Act, authored by Rep. Donald Payne of New Jersey and a committee print outlining additional steps for TSA to improve passenger screening, airport security, and expand risk-based screening initiatives. The Subcommittee on Transportation Security, tasked with conducting oversight of the Transportation Security Administration, has passed a multitude of bills related to improving worker vetting, expanding TSA’s PreCheck program, ensuring TSA employees are properly conducting their duties, and ensuring Airports have individual plans to address active shooters and terrorist acts. Next week, the House will consider two other transportation security bills introduced by Congressman Katko, H.R. 2750, the Improved Security Vetting for Aviation Workers Act of 2015 and H.R. 2843, the PreCheck Expansion Act. Congressman John Katko chairs the House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Transportation Security. He represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties, and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit Katko.house.gov or facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today introduced legislation to rein in IRS outsourcing of taxpayer examination work normally conducted solely by swornTreasury officials, contending that such contracts put the confidentiality of taxpayer information at risk, and waste millions of taxpayer dollars. The bill amends IRS code to explicitly bar the Agency from dispensing summoned documents, or outsourcing sworn testimony to contractors outside the Treasury. “The IRS has said that it can’t afford to provide basic taxpayer services that have long been taken for granted. During the last filing season, the IRS simply hung up on millions of taxpayers, rather than answering their tax questions,” said Rep. John Katko. “Now, despite having tens of thousands of employees dedicated to enforcement, the IRS is spending millions of dollars on outside legal help to aid in its enforcement efforts.” Prior to the IRS’ decision to hire an outside law firm last year to aid in a case, examination work such as that being conducted in this case had always been done by sworn IRS agents. Federal statute puts severe limits on the dissemination of information filed with the IRS. In order to justify this unprecedented move, the Administration skirted normal rulemaking procedures and issued a temporary regulation without a public comment period to allow this type of examination work. Rep. Katko’s bill adds to current law to explicitly prohibit this type of outsourcing, and ensures that the temporary regulation cannot continue to be utilized for this purpose. “Private taxpayer information must remain private, and this type of outsourcing puts that basic principle at risk,” continued Rep. John Katko. “My bill protects the confidentiality of taxpayer information, and protects the taxpayer’s hard-earned money. I’ll continue to do everything in my power to ensure that taxpayer money is usedproperly, and that government agencies are held accountable.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties, and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit Katko.house.gov or facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.20.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – Following a series of high profile airline and airport employee security breaches, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he introduced the bipartisan “Airport Access Control Security Improvement Act,” legislation aimed at reforming and streamlining Transportation Security Administration (TSA) screening procedures for airport and airline employees. “Just this week, an extensive drug trafficking operation was exposed out of Dallas/Fort Worth, where employees were able to bypass security and smuggle drugs into secure areas of the airport. This incident, along with others over the last few months, have highlighted concerning gaps in employee vetting and screening procedures. These vulnerabilities need to be addressed in order to safeguard to traveling public,” said Rep. Katko. This Congress, Rep. Katko, Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Transportation Security, has led the Committee’s effort to address employee access control issues. This oversight has complemented a broader and ongoing review of TSA’s operations, policies and procedures. The Subcommittee’s oversight over these instances revealed: shortcomings in employee vetting, improper use of employee credentials, and a range of challenges that have inhibited employee screening. The legislation: Requires TSA to develop procedures for risk-based screening of airport and airline employees. Makes critical reforms to the employee screening process to ensure those who have access to our nation’s airports do not pose a threat. Provides additional law-enforcement resources to screen employees. Establishes an oversight framework to ensure Congress can closely monitor improvements surrounding employee vetting and screening. The legislation also codifies an important set of recommendations offered by the Aviation Security Advisory Committee (ASAC), which includes industry stakeholders and TSA. Over the last few months, ASAC has conducted a review of these issues. “As threats to our aviation sector continue to evolve, commonsense reforms -- such as clearly differentiating between individuals authorized to have access to secure areas, and those who do not, or requiring criminal background checks that cover an extended history -- will go a long way in ensuring safety at our airports,” concluded Katko. Congressman John Katko chairs the House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Transportation Security. He represents the 24thCongressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties, and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit Katko.house.gov or facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today applauded the announcement that the U.S. Navy has awarded Lockheed Martin $153,947,182 for Block 2 of the Navy’s Surface Electronic Warfare Improvement Program, or SEWIP. Through the appropriations process, Congressman Katko supported the funding request made by the U.S. Navy for SEWIP II. The funding will allow Lockheed Martin to continue its work to update the Navy’s electronic warfare system and maximize the fleet’s capabilities. “Lockheed Martin has a state-of-the-art production line with the capacity to help fulfill the U.S. Navy’s modernization goals,” said Rep. John Katko. “This funding will ensure that the Navy gets the important, upgraded technology that it needs while maintaining our strong workforce at the Syracuse Lockheed Martin operation.” A majority of the work, 69%, under the contract will be completed at the Lockheed Martin facility in Syracuse. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
07.15.2015	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) released the following statement after the Obama Administration announced that it has reached an agreement in nuclear negotiations with Iran: "As a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, I take seriously my role of safeguarding our national security and the security of our allies. That means ensuring Iran, the largest state sponsor of terrorism, does not have the capability to develop nuclear weapons. "I am troubled that this agreement gives Iran generous sanction relief without the necessary certifications for restricting its nuclear capabilities. There is no guarantee that Iran will abide by the terms of these negotiations. If Iranian leaders want relief from economic sanctions, they must agree to clear inspection and verification protocols, with immediate consequences if they fail to fully comply or cooperate with the terms of an agreement. Without these basic concessions, we simply cannot accept that Iran will be prevented from developing nuclear weapons. "We embarked upon these diplomatic negotiations to prevent conflict with Iran. But by removing sanctions and unfreezing billions of dollars in Iranian assets, we risk eliminating U.S. diplomatic leverage and only increase the risk of conflict in the future. These concerns are shared by many of my colleagues in Congress, across party lines. “Moving forward, Congress will play a critical role in the approval of this proposed agreement. As part of that review process, I will be very mindful of a number of items that have not been addressed in this agreement. First, Iran remains the largest state sponsor of terrorism, wreaking lethal havoc throughout the Middle East and especially Israel. Second, Iran retains the ability to manufacture nuclear weapons in the future and is allowed to retain all key aspects of nuclear bomb-making. Third, we will not have real-time, unfettered access to inspect sites in Iran to ensure that they are complying with the agreement. And finally, I have major concerns for the four Americans who remain captive inIran for political purposes. “I look forward to a constructive, bipartisan review of the details of this agreement, and I believe we must remain ever vigilant to prevent Iran from yielding its destructive and dangerous influence in the region and beyond.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion ofOswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) today announced that the U.S. House of Representatives passed the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, H.R. 6, patient-centered legislation that he co-sponsored which invests in science and research to support medical innovation and life-saving treatments, therapies, and cures for chronic conditions. “Far too many in our community personally suffer with chronic medical conditions or have family members or loved ones who desperately seek a cure for diseases like Parkinson’s, Multiple Sclerosis, Alzheimer’s, rare forms of cancer, and diabetes,” said Rep. John Katko. “That’s why I supported today’s legislation to facilitate new research initiatives and develop safe treatments and therapies.” The 21st Century Cures Act is bipartisan legislation that was developed after years of input from patients and their loved ones, researchers, caregivers, advocates, and innovators. Right now, it takes 15 years to bring new treatments and medicines to the market and costs billions of dollars. This legislation will accelerate research and remove barriers by incentivizing collaboration and incorporating patient perspective into drug development and regulatory review. “For example, as one of the most expensive diseases in the United States, we spend upwards of $215 billion per year to provide care for those living with Alzheimer’s disease,” continued Rep. John Katko. “For these patients and so many others, this legislation will invest in further research to help uncover the next generation of cures and treatments. I support this legislation for many reasons – but these long-awaited treatments will provide reprieve to the many patients and their families who have obstinately sought answers and medical breakthroughs.” The legislation invests in 21st Century science and makes the government’s role in public health smarter and more efficient by streamlining Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval and investing in more medical research at the National Institute of Health (NIH). “This legislation will equip researchers with the resources that they need while providing hope for the hundreds of patients and their families in our community and across the country who battle bravely with rare and chronic conditions,” concluded Katko. H.R. 6 authorizes a $1.5 billion increase in research spending for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in FYs 2016-18, and creates the “Innovation Fund,” a dedicated and fully paid for stream of $8.75 billion to NIH and FDA over five years. This increase in funding will ease the path to discovery that will not only advance science and lead to cures, but will also create good jobs in Central New York. Congressman Katko spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today in support of this legislation. Video of his remarks can be found here. Rep. Katko was joined by many local advocates, organizations, and education institutions in supporting this legislation. “The Upstate New York Chapter of The ALS Association applauds Representative Katko for voting for the 21st Century Cures Act. This important legislation will help advance research to find a treatment for ALS and improve the lives of everyone who has been touched by the disease,” said Tom Byrnes, Manlius, who was diagnosed with ALS in 2009. Byrnes is a board member with The ALS Association Upstate New York Chapter. "The Alzheimer’s Association is proud to work with individuals like Rep. John Katko that see the greater good that scientific research and innovation provides to society,” said Catherine James, chief executive officer of the Alzheimer’s Association, Central New York Chapter. “For every dollar spent by the federal government on Alzheimer’s research, it spends $260 on care. That is an unsustainable course that will eventually bankrupt Medicare and Medicaid. A cure, prevention or effective therapy for Alzheimer’s disease would save the nation billions of dollars in care costs. Furthermore, the importance of the 21st Century Cures Act speaks to more than just a cure for diseases. It offers our nation a long-term economic solution for care costs related to Medicare and Medicaid. We applaud the Congressman for his forward thinking on this bill." Stephanie Mincer, president and CEO of the Upstate NY Chapter of the National MS Society stated, “For the nearly 13,000 people with multiple sclerosis (MS) in NY, more than 1,400 who live in Representative Katko’s district, the passage of the 21st Century Cures Act brings excitement and the promise of moving us closer to unlocking the mystery of MS and ultimately to a world free of MS. The additional resources for research and a system to help us understand MS are essential to finding additional therapies to treat this disease.” Frieda Weeks, Executive Director of Hope for Heather remarked, "The 21st Century Cures Act will open doors to endless possibilities of research that we hope will lead to new treatments and possibly a cure for chronic diseases that have already taken too many lives of loved ones. The further increase of funding for the NIH gives us hope that while research is happening, we can continue to raise ovarian cancer awareness and support those who are fighting to live their lives." Maryann Roefaro, CEO of Hematology-Oncology Associates of CNY said, “Hematology-Oncology Associates of CNY (HOA) was a Community Clinical Oncology Program (CCOP) through the NCI for over 27 years. This allowed our practice and patients to participate in clinical trials to find new and more effective treatments for cancer from 1986 – 2014. It also allowed us to work with research groups across the nation to develop cancer control and prevention trials. It was devastating to our community, patients and our cancer practice when the NCI lost the funding for this program. It mandated a reduction in our clinical research department by 50% and it cut off our community from clinical trials that allowed them to access new discoveries and treatments in their own back yard. HOA was the only CCOP in Central NY and one of two in the state of NY. It’s important to support HR 6, and provide funding to keep our country and our local community on the cutting edge of new treatments, especially those that target an enhancement of the immune system or allow for genetic sequencing to personalize treatments. We hope the funds will be allocated wisely and effectively and are grateful for Rep. John Katko for his support.” SUNY Chancellor Nancy L. Zimpher said, “The nation’s colleges and universities - our public institutions, in particular - rely heavily on federal support for the advancement of medical research and innovation by our students, faculty, and staff. We appreciate Representative Katko's strong support for H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act. This bill will put our scientists in a position not only to continue working toward life-saving medical technologies, treatments, and cures but also to attract research partners and additional investment.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security, today announced that three bipartisan bills he introduced – one focused on border security, and two on improving transportation security – have passed the House Committee on Homeland Security. “Since the start of this Congress, I have worked diligently to assess the effectiveness of transportation security in our country and to prevent threats at our borders,” said Rep. John Katko. “The measures that passed through the Committee on Homeland Security this week improve our national security by ensuring the safety of our vast northern border and addressing transportation security risks to make travel safer for Americans.” Details on the legislation can be found below: H.R. 455, the Northern Border Security Review Act, requiring the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a northern border threat analysis to ensure that adequate safeguards are put in place to secure the northern border. H.R. 2750, the Improved Security Vetting for Aviation Workers Act, legislation to reform Transportation Security Administration (TSA) programs by requiring TSA to collect adequate data on aviation workers in order to close gaps in the vetting process. H.R. 2843, the TSA PreCheck Expansion Act, directs the TSA to expand and promote enrollment in its PreCheck program by partnering with the private sector. Rep. Katko chairs the Homeland Security Committee on Transportation Security, which has jurisdiction over the TSA. This Congress, Rep. Katko has held three subcommittee hearings focused on airline employee screening and ‘risk-based security’ as it related to passenger screening. Each hearing revealed that severe security lapses existed. Additionally, he has sponsored legislation to ensure TSA operates in the most effective and efficient manner possible. Both the TSA Office of Inspection Accountability Act (H.R. 719) and the Airport Security Enhancement Act (H.R. 720) have passed the House and the Senate committee of jurisdiction. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or visit www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling in King v. Burwell: “While today’s Supreme Court decision supports the President’s healthcare law, it does not change the fact that there is an urgent need to act. This law has not lived up to its promises – costs have risen, coverage has been terminated or interrupted, and Medicare was cut. Central New York’s healthcare marketplace still requires real reforms that expand options, lower costs, and protect the doctor-patient relationship – and my colleagues and I in the House stand ready to work on bipartisan solutions to improve our nation’s healthcare system. We will only get there if the President and members of both parties come together and admit that the healthcare law needs structural reforms or replacement.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative John Katko (NY-24) is pleased to announce that his Syracuse District office has been selected to host a Wounded Warrior fellow, who will serve as a Veterans Constituent Case Worker. “We owe an enormous debt to the men and women who have put their lives on the line to defend our freedom and our democracy,” said Rep. John Katko. “These individuals have a unique understanding of the challenges facing Central New York’s veterans, active military men and women, and their families. I’m proud to participate in this initiative and eager for the opportunity to have a local veteran join our team.” Since taking office in January, Rep. Katko’s office has assisted in the return of over $178,000.00 in benefits to veterans and active U.S. service members in the 24th Congressional District. The fellow, a Veterans Case Worker, will work primarily with veterans, active duty military, and their families. The individual will coordinate responses to a wide range of requests received from military and veteran constituents and provide a liaison between the Office of Rep. John Katko and various veterans’ organizations in NY-24. The fellow will assist constituents in interacting with administrative and government agencies by acting as a facilitator, ombudsman, and in some cases, an advocate. A full list of job duties and responsibilities, as well as requirements for the position, can be found here. The position is part of the Congressional Wounded Warrior Program, which was established to provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Congressional Wounded Warrior Fellowship program is available to veterans who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, with less than 20 years of service and a minimum 30% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Interested applicants should submit a resume, a DD214, and a letter from the VA indicating a 30% or greater rating to housewoundedwarriors@mail.house.gov. Resumes should not be sent directly to the Office of Representative Katko. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.23.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he will host a heroin summit next week where community members will have an opportunity to discuss the spike in local heroin use with a panel of parents, educators, healthcare providers, law enforcement officials, and local advocates. “The continued rise of heroin use in our community presents a great risk to the future of Central New York,” said Rep. John Katko. “I invite individuals and families from across NY-24 to join me for a forum on the challenges associated with solving this public health epidemic, and to learn more about treatment and prevention efforts in our area.” The event is free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Details are as follows: Monday, June 29th at 6:30 p.m. Oswego City Hall, Common Council Chambers 13 West Oneida Street in the City of Oswego Panelists will include Penny Morley, Prevention Services Director at Farnham Family Services, Monika Taylor, Director of Substance Abuse and Behavioral Health Services for Crouse Hospital, Steve Webster, the parent of a heroin overdose victim, Michael Batstone, an Investigator with Oswego County Drug Task Force, Ben Halsey, Superintendent of Schools for the Oswego City School District, and a representative from Oswego Health. Earlier this year, Rep. Katko held a Listening Session to Initiate a Community Conversation on Heroin. In Congress, he has cosponsored and advocated for the TREAT Act, bipartisan legislation which would enhance treatment options for individuals addicted to heroin and prescription drugs. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today applauded the passage of bipartisan legislation to repeal the Medical Device Tax. The Protect Medical Innovation Act, H.R. 160, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives today with overwhelming bipartisan support, repeals the 2.3% tax on medical device manufacturers that was put in place to fund Obamacare. Representative Katko is an original co-sponsor of this legislation. “The medical device industry is one fueled by innovative small businesses and manufacturers. But this tax places significant burdens on device makers by hindering job expansion, economic growth, innovation, and global competitiveness,” said Rep. Katko. “At home and across our country, this onerous tax has forced companies to make difficult business decisions that affect their workforce, research and development investments, and future company plans -- all in order to compensate for this misguided tax policy.” The Medical Device Tax places a unique threat on Central New York’s economy and on New York State as a whole. New York’s vibrant med-tech industry is the 8th largest in the nation, employing over 8,000 employees in Upstate New York. The 24th Congressional District is home to small business innovators and large medical device manufacturers, including Welch Allyn and MedTech. After today’s vote, Welch Allyn remarked, “The Medical Device Excise Tax imposes a significant burden on innovative device companies throughout the industry. Welch Allyn applauds the continued efforts of Representative Katko and his colleagues in the House to repeal the tax and is eager to see passage of repeal in the Senate soon.” “House repeal of the medical device excise tax is a critical step forward," MedTech President Jessica Crawford commented. "We thank Rep. John Katko for his early leadership in the 114th Congress and appreciate recognition by the House of Representatives that this onerous tax stifles innovation and hurts New York's medical technology industry. John Katko realizes the urgency in getting this legislation through the Senate and across the legislative finish line now.” “Repeal of the burdensome medical device tax has been one of my top priorities in Congress,” concluded Congressman Katko. “I will continue to back broader reforms to help our vibrant med-tech industry and to make it easier to do business in Central New York and across the country.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, visit https://katko.house.gov or follow along on Facebook and Twitter. ###
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Following the announcement from U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, Jacob Lew, that a redesign of the ten dollar bill will feature the first woman on the nation’s paper currency in over a century, U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) issued the following statement. “Today’s historic announcement that a woman will be featured on the ten dollar bill is a tremendous step in honoring and celebrating the accomplishments of American women. “In Congress, I introduced legislation to recognize the incredible contributions that Harriet Tubman has made to our great country by preserving her legacy, courage, and commitment to others on U.S. Currency. I am pleased that this legislation, alongside the resilient efforts of advocacy groups, has encouraged the U.S. Treasury to announce its redesign of U.S. Currency. “Auburn, New York is a city that is rich in history with a growing tourism-based economy and arts and cultural community. With Harriet Tubman’s Auburn home recently established as a National Historical Park, now is an incredibly fitting time for this iconic American woman to be featured on U.S. Currency. Doing so will not only ensure that her legacy lives on for generations, but will energize Auburn’s growing tourism efforts and stimulate new, sustainable economic activity in Central New York. Earlier this month, Rep. Katko and Rep. Elijah Cummings (MD-7) introduced The Harriet Tubman Tribute Act, bipartisan legislation which would require the Secretary of the Treasury to place Harriet Tubman’s likeness on a Federal Reserve Note by 2017. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Katko (NY-24), House Homeland Security Committee Transportation Security Subcommittee Chairman, today announced that he has introduced the bipartisan “Improved Vetting for Aviation Workers Act of 2015,” legislation that puts in place new oversight measures for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to ensure the safety of our nation’s airports. A recent Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Inspector General (IG) report found that 73 aviation workers at airports across the country had ties to terrorism. “Since the start of this Congress, my subcommittee has actively examined a number of alarming aspects related to the TSA’s operations, policies, and procedures. Through hearings, oversight inquiries, and legislation, I have been working to get to the bottom of these issues and raise awareness of the urgent need to fix them,” said Rep. John Katko. “Recent revelations that the TSA cleared for employment individuals with potential ties to terrorism demonstrate the dire need for improved, streamlined procedures at the TSA.” Katko’s legislation implements recent recommendations outlined in the DHS IG’s report to strengthen the vetting of credentialed aviation workers who have access to sensitive areas of airports. The bill focuses on ensuring that TSA has access to necessary data to properly vet aviation employees by strengthening criminal background check capabilities and resolving issues of lawful status for credentialed applicants. “While the TSA is charged with the vital task of protecting Americans and ensuring the utmost safety of our transportation systems, it is clear that our nation’s airports are vulnerable to insider threats. This legislation takes a first step in working to reform the issues that plague the TSA and to ensure the safety of our traveling public.” concluded Rep. Katko. Specifically, this legislation mandates coordination between the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Interagency Policy Committee, and the Administrator of TSA to determine the best practices to expand the vetting process for aviation workers. This would include enhancing the process for vetting aviation workers against the Terrorist Identities DataMart Environment (TIDE) database. The bill also provides a timeline for the TSA Administrator to issue guidance strengthening credentialing requirements for aviation workers. Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul, Transportation Security Ranking Member Kathleen Rice, and Rep. Donald Payne joined Rep. Katko in introducing this legislation. Last week, Rep. Katko sent a letter to U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson to express his concern over the recent DHS IG report. Tomorrow, he will hold a hearing to identify what Congress needs to do to close gaps at the TSA and address these startling vulnerabilities. This Congress, Rep. Katko has held two additional subcommittee hearings focused on airline employee screening and ‘risk-based security’ as it related to passenger screening. Both hearings revealed that severe security lapses existed. Additionally, he has sponsored legislation to ensure TSA operates in the most effective and efficient manner possible. Both the TSA Office of Inspection Accountability Act (H.R. 719) and the Airport Security Enhancement Act (H.R. 720) have passed the House and the Senate committee of jurisdiction. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties. For more information, visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
06.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today joined Rep. Charlie Dent (PA-15), along with Representatives Joyce Beatty (OH-3) and Bobby Rush (IL-1), to reintroduce the National Collegiate Athletics Accountability (NCAA) Act. The legislation is part of the ongoing efforts by these legislators to insist on academic integrity to protect the well-being of student athletes and to provide much-needed reforms to the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). In order to bring actual accountability to college athletics, the NCAA Act would prohibit universities from receiving Title IV funds if they participate in athletic associations, including the NCAA, that do not implement and enforce specific rules related to student-athletes’ health, education, safety, and due process protections for alleged infractions of association by-laws. "A primary objective of the NCAA is to provide outstanding higher education opportunities for student-athletes. However, this organization has become a multi-billion dollar industry that does not always seem to have the best interest of its students at heart,” said Representative John Katko. "While I share the NCAA's goal of preventing improper conduct in collegiate athletics, its arbitrary decision-making mechanisms and harsh imposition of sanctions — such as the ones recently imposed on Syracuse University — are harmful to the health, education, and welfare of our students. It is far time that we demand greater transparency from the NCAA and I applaud Rep. Dent for his steadfast leadership on this important initiative.” “The NCAA will tell you that its goal is to protect the welfare of the student-athlete,” said Representative Dent (PA-15). “But anyone who has been following the actions of the Association over recent years knows their rhetoric falls far from the reality of their actions. That’s why this legislation is necessary and I greatly appreciate the support of my colleagues,” Dent concluded. “This legislation is to make sure that student athletes come first in collegiate athletics. Concussive injuries and their long term impact, as well as the preservation of scholarships for athletes have all grown in the public consciousness and conversation,” said Representative Beatty (OH-3). “I want to make sure we protect the health and safety of our students, and ensure fair and transparent enforcement of NCAA rules. I am proud that our work spurred last year’s ruling of the Big Ten Conference schools to guarantee that any athlete who received and athletics scholarship will be able to keep the award until they graduate.” “I am proud to be part of the bipartisan effort to hold the NCAA accountable to the students it is supposed to serve,” stated Representative Bobby Rush (IL-1). Last year, institutions of higher education received close to $140 billion in Federal student aid under Title IV of the Higher Education Act, which is nearly 77 percent of all federal funding received by these institutions. If the NCAA will not do what is right, we, as Members of Congress, must do what is necessary to protect student athletes.” Representative Glenn “GT” Thompson (PA-5) joined the press conference to add his support “The NCAA continues to disappoint when it comes to following their own rules and certainly when it comes to unduly exerting their perceived powers over college athletics,” Thompson stated. “The bipartisan National Collegiate Athletics Accountability Act will ensure the NCAA is held to the highest standards, by providing much needed accountability and reforms. I commend my fellow Penn State alumnus, Representative Charlie Dent, for his partnership on this important issue.” The NCAA Act contains these important components: 1.) The bill requires mandatory annual baseline concussion testing for those students involved in contact/collision sports1. 2.) It requires mandatory four year scholarships for athletes participating in contact/collision sports, instead of permitting the termination of an athletic scholarship after one year for non-academic reasons. This protects student athletes from having their opportunity at an education taken from them because they don’t fit the “scheme” of a Coach. The primary “scheme” of an institution of higher learning should be one that helps their students graduate. 3.) The bill requires greater accountability and transparency in the NCAA’s adjudication of infractions for both students and schools, by providing institutions and student-athletes a level of certainty as to how the enforcement process will work. Neither students nor institutions should have to face star-chamber type investigations and disciplinary proceedings where due process is ignored. 4.) Finally, the bill establishes a Presidential Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics to review, analyze, and report to the President and Congress on the interaction of athletics and academics, the financing of intercollegiate athletics, the recruitment and retention of student athletes, oversight and governance practices, health and safety protections for student athletes, and due process and other protections related to the enforcement of student athlete rules and regulations. NOTE: The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) – comprised of three divisions – is the largest voluntary association that encompasses over 1,000 colleges and universities, contains 95 member conferences, services over 430,000 student-athletes, and generates nearly $800 million in revenue per year. The NCAA Act was previously introduced in the 113th Congress as H.R. 2903 1 The American Academy of Pediatrics defines collision/contact sports to include: Field hockey, Football, Ice hockey, Lacrosse, Soccer, and Wrestling.
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Katko (NY-24), House Homeland Security Committee Transportation Security Subcommittee Chairman, today joined Chairman Michael McCaul and Rep. Scott Perry, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Management Efficiency, in writing to U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson to express his concern over the recent findings that 73 aviation workers with access to secure areas of airports across the U.S. were found to have ties to terrorism. Rep. Katko made the following statement after sending today’s letter: “As Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee, I have been actively examining a number of alarming aspects related to the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) operations, policies and procedures over the last few months. Through hearings, oversight inquiries, and legislation I have been working to get to the bottom of these issues and raise awareness of the urgent need to fix them. This week’s revelations that the TSA cleared for employment individuals with potential ties to terrorism makes even more clear the need for steady leadership at the TSA, and for clear direction from the Obama Administration, to work through the many issues that plague the Agency. “I sent a letter to Secretary Johnson today to express my concern and next week I will hold a hearing to examine some of these recent reports and identify what Congress needs to do to close these gaps and address these startling vulnerabilities. “In light of the significant threats we face, I will continue to work with my colleagues on the Transportation Security Subcommittee to hold the TSA accountable, and ensure that it is fulfilling its vital duty of protecting Americans. I urge my colleagues to work alongside Chairman McCaul, Ranking Members Thompson and Rice, and myself as we move forward with oversight measures to ensure the safety of our traveling public. “These stunning failures should serve as a wakeup call to all involved. It’s time for the Administration to take strong, proactive action to right the course of the TSA, and we will not be letting up on our efforts in the House of Representatives.” A copy of the letter sent to Secretary Johnson is attached. This Congress, Rep. Katko has held two subcommittee hearings focused on airline employee screening and ‘risk-based security’ as it related to passenger screening. Both hearings revealed that severe security lapses existed. Additionally, he has sponsored legislation to ensure TSA operates in the most effective and efficient manner possible. Both the TSA Office of Inspection Accountability Act (H.R. 719) and the Airport Security Enhancement Act (H.R. 720) have passed the House and the Senate committee of jurisdiction. Earlier this Congress, Rep. Katko expressed serious concern for the absence of a nominated Administrator of the TSA. Congressman Katko also chairs the bipartisan Task Force to Combat Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Threat. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties. For more information, visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
06.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives John Katko (NY-24) and Richard Hanna (NY-22) today announced their support of the bipartisan Recovery Enhancement for Addiction Treatment (TREAT) Act (HR 2536), legislation introduced by Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26), to enhance treatment options for individuals addicted to heroin and prescription drugs. Upstate New York, and the entire country, faces a severe opioid abuse epidemic. While effective medications to treat opioid addictions exist, federal regulations limit access for individuals to seek these treatments. A health care provider can currently only treat 30 opioid-addicted patients in his or her first year of practice, and up to 100 opioid-addicted patients thereafter, which often forces local providers to turn away patients. The TREAT Act improves access to care by increasing the number of patients a prescriber can treat and expands the ability to prescribe treatment for opioid addicted patients to nurse practitioners and physicians assistants. “As a former federal prosecutor, I witnessed first-hand the impact of the heroin and opioid drug epidemic on families across all economic sectors of Central New York,” said Rep. John Katko. “It should not be the case that accessing life-saving treatments is more difficult than accessing heroin and opioid drugs. This critical legislation will provide more comprehensive treatment options by allowing competent and qualified health care professionals to treat a greater number of patients suffering from addiction.” “There are people living in our communities who are addicted to heroin and prescription pain pills,” Rep. Hanna said. “The problem is very real and it is here. It does not discriminate on age, race, gender or socioeconomic status. This bill is one step toward helping curb this growing epidemic. We must give our healthcare professionals all the tools they need to reduce addiction and save lives.” “Crouse Hospital deeply appreciates the support Representatives Katko and Hanna are providing to move this legislation forward. It is a critical step in making on-demand treatment available to individuals with opioid use disorders requiring medication-assisted treatment. Too many lives are lost in our communities due to the lack of lifesaving medication-assisted treatment,” said Monika Taylor, Director of Behavioral Health Services at Crouse, the region’s only hospital-based provider of substance abuse treatment services. The legislation is supported by a number of professional medical associations including, the American Medical Association (AMA), American Society for Addiction and Medicine (ASAM), Trust of America’s Health (TFAH), American Association of Nurse Practitioners (AANP), and the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC). Similar bipartisan legislation (S. 1455) has been introduced in the Senate. ###
06.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives John Katko (NY-24) and Elijah Cummings (MD-7) today introduced The Harriet Tubman Tribute Act, bipartisan legislation which would require the Secretary of the Treasury to place Harriet Tubman’s likeness on a Federal Reserve Note by 2017. “Harriet Tubman is an American hero who left her mark on Central New York. She bravely led countless Americans to freedom and opportunity, courageously fought for her country, and was an outspoken advocate for women’s suffrage,” said Rep. John Katko. “This legislation recognizes the incredible contributions Harriet Tubman has made to our great country by preserving her legacy, courage, and commitment to others on our U.S. Currency. With the Harriet Tubman Home in Auburn on the verge of becoming a National Historical Park, now is a better time than ever to honor and celebrate her life for generations to come.” “Harriet Tubman was called the Moses of her people,” Congressman Cummings said. “Born in Maryland, she escaped slavery and courageously fought for the freedom of other slaves before the Civil War. She continued to battle injustice and inequality until her death. Placing Harriet Tubman on our U.S. Currency is a fitting tribute to a woman who fought to make the values enshrined in our Constitution a reality for all Americans.” Reps. Gibson (NY-19), Hurd (TX-23), Rice (NY-4), Buck (CO-4), Graham (FL-2), Brooks (IN-5), and McSally (AZ-2) joined Reps. Katko and Cummings in introducing today’s legislation. ###
05.26.2015	Syracuse, New York – With stops at Solvay Elementary School, the Southside Academy Charter School in Syracuse, and Jamesville-Dewitt Middle School, U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today visited with students, teachers, and administrators to discuss strengthening education in Central New York. He focused on teaching flexibility and an increased focus on mental health in our schools. “Central New York families deserve to have the best quality education opportunities available,” said Congressman Katko. “Today, I spoke directly with teachers and students in our community, and I heard them reiterate something I’ve heard again and again: we cannot teach our students with a one-size-fits-all approach. We need to make sure that our educators have the tools that they need to teach and train our students to succeed on a local level.” In Congress, Rep. Katko is a co-sponsor of the Student Testing Improvement and Accountability Act, legislation that encourages greater flexibility in education by reducing the frequency of federally required testing. Katko praised this initiative stating, “This legislation would ensure that teachers in our public schools are given the freedom necessary to teach for students --rather than for tests.” Rep. Katko also focused today increasing mental health services in Central New York schools. “I’ve made it a priority to expand access to mental and behavioral health services in our community, and especially in our schools,” Katko continued. “Investing in preventative mental health will improve youth mental health treatment in our community, and give these young people a better future.” Congressman Katko has championed mental health awareness on a local level, launching a Mental Health/Behavioral Health Task Force in partnership with Assemblyman Bill Magnarelli. In Congress, he is a co-sponsor of the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would expand comprehensive school-based mental health services to detect and treat mental and behavioral health illnesses before they compound drastically. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today delivered the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor the life of the beloved Central New York radio host, Joe Galuski, who passed away last week following a battle with cancer. “Thank you Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the life of Joe Galuski, a beloved Central New York broadcaster who spent more than 25 years on the air on WSYR radio. Known for his ability to discuss, with knowledge, any topic presented to him, Joe faithfully kept our community updated on the latest local stories and provided us with news from around the nation. “A legend in Central New York radio, Joe Galuski is fondly remembered by the thousands of listeners who tuned in religiously on morning commutes and to hear him on SU football’s pre- and post-game talk shows. “Joe was more than a radio host – he had the power to communicate and entertain and became a large part of the lives of his many listeners. He was a gracious and tough interviewer who was quick with a joke. His personality, sense of humor, and intelligence could always be heard in his voice. “Joe Galuski was loved by Central New York, a community he cared deeply about. His spirit as the voice of our community will not be forgotten –by his family, friends, colleagues, and listeners.” Video of Katko’s remarks can be found here. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced that Loren Brown, a student from Marcellus who attends Manlius Pebble Hill School, has been named the winner of the Congressional Art Competition. Her photograph, “Dreaming in White” will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one full year. “I am excited to announce Loren Brown’s ‘Dreaming in White’ as the winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition. I look forward to seeing her piece in Washington, where it will be on display for thousands of visitors to the U.S. Capitol,” said Rep. Katko. “Central New York is home to many gifted young artists, and I was truly impressed by the high caliber of talent and passion from our local students.” Congressman Katko’s Syracuse, Auburn, Oswego, and Lyons offices received over 30 unique and creative entries from students across the 24th Congressional District. The winning piece of art was selected by a panel of esteemed judges from each of the four counties of NY-24. Katko congratulated Loren and other finalists at a ceremony this past Saturday, where participating art teachers, students, and parents, were honored. Loren will travel to Washington for a reception in June. Photos from Saturday’s reception, including a photograph of Loren’s artwork, are attached and above. While Rep. Katko’s office was only able to select one winner, all participating students have been offered the opportunity to display their submitted artwork in the NY-24 District and Regional offices until the close of the school year. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) last night offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for the 2016 Fiscal Year (NDAA), to address the United States Air Force’s increasing need for Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) pilots. Katko’s amendment requires the Department of Defense to report to the congressional defense committees on its plan to implement necessary changes, and expresses strong congressional support for facilitating an increase in pilot training. The amendment was adopted by the U.S. House of Representatives late yesterday evening. “The use of Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) by the U.S. Air Force has multiplied since the start of conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan – and today, these systems represent a vital instrument in securing our national defense,” said Rep. Katko. “Many of the men and women who support out vital military operations around the world receive training right here in Central New York.” The 24th Congressional District is home to the 174th Attack Wing at Hancock Field, one of only two formal training units within the Air National Guard that trains with unmanned aircraft. The base is a premier training facility that draws airmen from around the globe to Central New York, contributing $115.4 million annually to Upstate’s economy and creating countless jobs. Katko noted that his amendment has the potential to increase the number of pilots, aircraft, and overall training conducted at Hancock Field. “If left unaddressed, the current shortage of pilots will have a significant impact on the future of our Air Force,” continued Katko. “The amendment that I submitted will allow the Department of Defense to adequately study this growing problem, and help ensure that the critical training and operational needs of our military are met. It is my hope that this process will result in an increase of jobs and training at Hancock Field.” “The talented service members of the 174th have the capabilities to play a key role in UAS training, research and development which will enable them to meet this critical national defense need,” said Robert Simpson, president of CenterState CEO. “This amendment is something CenterState CEO has advocated for as we believe it has the potential to create jobs while supporting the region’s military installations. We are proud of the work of the 174th and recognize significant impact it has on our region’s economy.” Katko delivered remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, urging his colleagues to support the amendment. His statement can be found here. The NDAA annually authorizes funding to support our military personnel and to sustain vital military operations at home and abroad. Katko noted that a primary function of Congress is to provide for a strong national defense, stating that the defense budget should provide the methodology and training necessary to enable our service men and women to perform their jobs. The House passed the National Defense Authorization Act this morning. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), earlier this week held a meeting in his Washington, D.C. office with Wayne County lawmakers and representatives from the U.S. Department of State and the White House Council on Environmental Quality to discuss the potentially devastating impact the International Joint Commission (IJC) Lake Ontario-St. Lawrence River Plan, also known as Plan 2014, could have on the Wayne County shoreline and economy. “It was my pleasure to facilitate this important meeting to elevate the discussion on Plan 2014,” said Rep. Katko. “While I recognize the value of preserving our natural resources and supporting conservation measures, it is critical that we have a full and open dialogue on the potential impact the IJC’s proposal could have on the Wayne County shoreline, as well as local tourism, recreation, business, and agriculture.” Katko was joined by Wayne County Board of Supervisors Chairman Jim Hoffman, Town of Wolcott Supervisor Kim Park, Town of Sodus Supervisor Steve LeRoy, Town of Huron Supervisor Laurie Crane, and Mayor of Sodus Point, Chris Tertinek. “Plan 2014 proposes regulations that would allow water levels in Lake Ontario to fluctuate outside the parameters that have been in place for decades. This could cause the loss of shoreline, erosion damage to property, and flooding in the lakefront areas of Wayne County,” said Chairman of the Wayne County Board of Supervisors Jim Hoffman. “At our meeting in Washington, we were able to make these points directly to some of the major stakeholders. I speak for the Board of Supervisors when I say we are truly appreciative of Rep. Katko’s interest in this important local issue.” “We are very pleased with the strong role Rep. Katko has taken in making sure that the IJC’s Plan 2014 is carefully weighed,” said Town of Wolcott Supervisor Kim Park. “Plan 2014 could put Wayne County homeowners along the shoreline at risk to suffer millions of dollars of damage, and it is important that we continue this open dialogue going forward.” Plan 2014 would increase the frequency by which Lake Ontario’s water levels are raised and lowered. This has the potential to cause substantial damage to the Lake’s south shoreline, which houses hundreds of businesses and residences. The plan would also raise the current maximum water levels by 2.4 inches and increase the annual cost of shoreline maintenance and protections by 13 percent. These water level changes threaten the economic activities of hundreds of communities, residents, businesses, and farms. Katko has continuously expressed the need for more thorough, objective research on the effect of Plan 2014. Earlier this Congress, he joined Rep. Chris Collins (NY-27) in writing to the House Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, to call on Congress to prevent the use of federal funding to implement Plan 2014 for the 2016 Fiscal Year. Attached is a photo that was taken following the meeting. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
05.06.2015	JERUSALEUM – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chair of the bipartisan Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, is traveling this week on an official bipartisan Congressional Delegation visit to the Middle East and parts of Europe to examine security threats to the homeland, especially the flow of foreign fighters from Europe to Syria and Iraq and recent homeland threats and attacks against the United States and our European Union allies. Yesterday, the delegation met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to address Israeli security threats. During their visit, the Prime Minister spoke of the important alliance with the United States as a foundation of our national security. “It was a high honor to meet today with our strong ally and friend Prime Minister Netanyahu, and our candid discussion will be useful in addressing the joint challenges we face.” said Rep. Katko. “It is a frightening truth that a nuclear Iran poses a clear existential threat to the State of Israel. The Prime Minister made this case forcefully. Today’s meeting underscored the importance of caution and congressional oversight in a nuclear agreement with Iran. We must stand in support of Israel, our strongest ally in the region, against the threat of a nuclear Iran, and for our shared democratic values.” The bipartisan Congressional Delegation is led by House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10). Before arriving in Israel, Katko and his colleagues visited Baghdad and met with Iraqi Prime Minister Haider Al-Abadi and senior Iraqi officials to discuss threats posed by ISIS. “Our nation and world face enormous threats, and this delegation visit is a historic opportunity to learn more about the ever-evolving security threats to our nation -- especially from foreign fighters.” Rep. Katko continued. “We’re working closely with our allies to identify individuals who pose a threat to the homeland and to prevent them from boarding flights bound for the U.S.” Attached is a photo of Congressman Katko with members of the bipartisan Congressional Delegation during a visit with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Congressman John Katko is a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the Subcommittee on Transportation Security. He represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.29.2015	STATEMENT FROM U.S. REP. JOHN KATKO ON RELEASE OF I-81 SCOPING REPORT Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today issued the following statement after the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT), in consultation with the Federal Highway Administration (FWHA), released its scoping report on the Interstate 81 project. “The reconstruction of Interstate 81 is the largest civic project in the history of our district. As a decision that will shape our city and regional transportation infrastructure for years to come, it is critical that we get this right the first time around. “Based on conversations with constituents and community organizations across the 24th Congressional District, I had concerns that the final scoping document would permanently discard feasible, constructive options for the I-81 rebuild. Early in my term, I urged the NYSDOT and FHWA to present a viable range of options to the public in the state’s final scoping document. Central New York deserves to have a full and robust community dialogue on this important project, and I’m happy to see that today’s report includes a variety of reasonable alternatives. “We can now move forward with a public conversation on the future of Interstate 81 to determine which option is best for Central New York residents, businesses, civic groups, and our community as a whole. I look forward to reviewing the details each of the options presented in today’s report.” Shortly after taking office, Rep. Katko wrote to the NYSDOT and FHWA urging a comprehensive study of options in the final scoping document. Rep. Katko currently serves on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure, where he is a member of the subcommittee and Highways and Transit. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko.
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 1731, the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act, which includes an amendment introduced by U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) and a bipartisan group of colleagues to ensure adequate privacy protections are put in place. Today’s legislation encourages information sharing between the private sector and the federal government on cyber-related incidents. However, because the definition of “incident” is broad, it could be interpreted to allow the sharing and use of information unrelated to cyber-crimes. By specifically defining “incident,” Katko’s amendment ensures that information obtained by the government in collaboration with private entitles may only be used in relation to an actual cyber-crime. “Our nation faces serious and growing cybersecurity threats that are costly to our businesses and citizens, and today’s legislation addresses these vulnerabilities by encouraging information sharing on cyber-attacks,” said Congressman Katko. “But as we seek to make our country’s information systems more secure, we must also be mindful of the privacy and civil liberty concerns.” Cyber-sharing legislation often raises concerns about the potential misuse or misrepresentation of information, which could allow unwarranted surveillance of American citizens. Katko’s amendment addresses these concerns by making clear what constitutes a cyber “incident,” and what information the federal government is authorized to receive and share. “Passing this amendment is a major step forward for privacy,” concluded Katko. “It puts clear restrictions on what information may be used and shared by the federal government, and in doing so makes a good bill even better.” Katko’s amendment has bipartisan support including that of Reps McClintock (CA-4), Lofgren (CA-19), and Eschoo (CA-18). Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or follow along on Facebook and Twitter. ###
04.17.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today reflected on his first four months as Central New York’s representative in Congress, issuing a 100-day report which demonstrates his bipartisan, independent efforts in Congress. Shortly after being sworn in to represent NY-24, Katko set forth a list of aggressive, but necessary priorities to address the collective challenges of Central New Yorkers. He pledged to work with both parties to help grow the local economy, create jobs, and serve as an effective advocate for his Central New York constituents on the federal level. “I’ve made it clear from day one that fighting for Central New York is my highest priority,” stated Rep. Katko. “Since taking office, I have continuously engaged with constituents across NY-24 and I am proud to share some of the successes that we have achieved.” Highlights from Katko’s first 100 days in office include: Emerging as a strong voice in the ongoing discussion of the I-81 rebuilding project. Katko met with key stakeholders and advocacy groups, as well as state and local officials, early in his term to ensure that local needs are heard at the federal level in the I-81 rebuild. In his role as a member of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure Subcommittee on Highways & Transit, Katko urged NYSDOT and FWHA to provide a full range of options in the state’s final scoping document for further study. Strong advocacy for affordable higher education and support of local education. Through an Education Summit meeting with all local higher education institutions throughout the four counties of NY-24, Rep. Katko began and has fostered an ongoing discussion on college affordability and quality higher education in CNY. He’s also supported alternative higher education opportunities by cosponsoring legislation to prepare students for manufacturing careers. In the wake of the NCAA’s decision to strip Syracuse University of scholarships, Katko called on NCAA President Dr. Mark Emmert to reconsider the sanctions imposed, noting that the punishment would do the most harm to future students by barring them opportunities to receive a college degree. Katko also joined U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand at Syracuse University to champion legislation combating sexual violence on college campuses nationwide. With input from educators across NY-24, Katko has worked to empower teachers in our local classrooms by co-sponsoring the Student Testing Improvement and Accountability Act to eliminate the mandate of yearly testing in grade schools and to allow schools more flexibility in education. Supporting policies to improve health care in Central New York through lower costs and expanded access for families, veterans, and senior citizens. With feedback from the vast infrastructure of local doctors, hospitals, and healthcare centers in NY-24, Katko supported passage of a significant bipartisan compromise to permanently replace the flawed Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula with a more stable, long-term physician payment system that rewards quality care. He’s also supported efforts in Congress to encourage greater research into Lyme disease, and has joined House colleagues to push back against proposed cuts to Medicare Advantage. As a strong advocate for reforming our healthcare system with market-based solutions, Katko has sponsored, co-sponsored, and voted for numerous measures to reform Obamacare including legislation to repeal both the onerous Medical Device Tax and the HIT Tax, to eliminate the individual and employer mandate, and to exempt veterans, student workers, firefighters and emergency first responders from counting towards the employer mandate. Protecting Central New York’s agriculture community. Katko held a public Listening Session focused solely on issues impacting Central New York’s prevalent agriculture community. He’s also formed an Agriculture Committee made up of farmers and Farm Bureau representatives from all four counties in NY-24, which will meet regularly to discuss priority agricultural and watershed issues. He’s cosponsored legislation to force the EPA to withdraw its proposed “Waters of the United States” rule, which could devastate local farmers by subjecting them to burdensome new water regulations. He has made clear to House leadership that farmers cannot be hurt by a change to immigration policy. Katko supports policies such as the Family Farm Relief Act to make it easier for farmers to hire seasonal agriculture workers, and the Repeal of the Death Tax to relieve family farms of the burden of heavy tax bills at death. Working for policies that promote economic growth in Central New York by championing more private sector jobs and reducing the burdensome regulations that strangle Central New York’s small businesses and strong manufacturing workforce. Katko has placed an emphasis on meeting with local small businesses and manufacturers, as well as union officials across a variety of trade groups, for indicators on improving our regional economic climate. In addition to taking key votes to reform Obamacare and providing outspoken support for repealing the Medical Device tax, Rep. Katko has supported legislation to make doing business easier, including the Small Business Tax Relief Act and the Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act. As Congress works to appropriate federal funds, Representative Katko has supported robust funding for the Community Development Block Grant program, which can be utilized by communities throughout Central New York on important development projects that aid the local economy. He has supported strong funding for federal grant programs that aid local governments in improving their water infrastructure. Mindful of the upcoming FAA reauthorization, Katko outlined priorities that are important to the economic health of Central New York and our nation’s transportation systems, including support for the reauthorization and funding of the Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) test sites, one of which is located in Rome, NY. At home, Katko has worked to encourage economic development by hosting a public and widely-attended Listening Session in Oswego County – where he announced that funding will be provided for the vital dredging and breakwater repair projects at the Port of Oswego. This long-awaited project will allow the harbor to function as a more vibrant center for trade in Central New York. He’s also worked alongside fellow New York delegation members to keep Fort Drum and the 174th Attack Wing strong. Strengthening Central New York tourism by supporting efforts to ensure that the Harriet Tubman Home in Cayuga County successfully becomes a National Park. Additionally, Katko has promoted local tourism through bipartisan agricultural policies to aid the many Finger Lakes wineries and through vocal support for growing local arts community. In Congress, Katko joined a non-partisan group of fellow Upstate New York members to champion legislation reauthorizing the National Women’s Rights History Project and memorializing the historic efforts of the women’s rights movement in Upstate New York and throughout the country. He’s cosponsored legislation to provide funding for environmental restoration projects that are vital to tourism on the Great Lakes. Prioritizing a commitment to veterans through advocacy for Central New York’s prominent veterans community. Congressman Katko has worked with our Veterans Affairs Medical Facility and local veterans outreach centers, including Clear Path for Veterans, to deliver strong constituent service for CNY veterans. With an experienced veteran on staff, Rep. Katko has assisted nearly 70 NY-24 veterans over the past four months with issues they face with federal agencies or the VA. He has returned over $225,000 to veterans in owed benefits or pay. Katko has established a Veterans Advisory Council, comprised of representatives from a variety of agencies that assist NY-24 veterans. He has cosponsored legislation to open treatment to more veterans who suffered Agent Orange exposure, and supports robust funding for Department of Defense programming to treat traumatic injuries. Rep. Katko supports Syracuse University’s efforts to remain a leader in veterans’ higher education, and played a key role in securing funding for its Veterans Business Outreach Center. Starting a dialogue on strengthening access to pediatric mental health care in Central New York by creating a six-month mental and behavioral health care taskforce in partnership with New York State Assemblyman William Magnarelli. The task force, made up of mental health and substance use disorder treatment providers, grassroots health care organizations and advocates, Central New York hospitals, and local government officials, is tasked with addressing gaps in pediatric mental health care services in our region. Initiating a local conversation on the heroin epidemic in Central New York and around the nation by working with local, state and federal officials to combat this growing problem. Early in his term, Rep. Katko held a public community conversation on heroin and public safety at a districtwide listening session. He plans to continue this conversation around the district with heroin summits alongside NY-24 educators, public safety officials, students and parents. Katko has supported funding for programs designed to prevent opioid abuse and to curb high intensity drug trafficking. Providing forums for community approaches toward solving generational poverty throughout NY-24 by fostering a dialogue with local advocacy groups, community leaders, and our local churches. He has met with Central New York community organizations and advocates that provide food, shelter, family support, and multilingual outreach services to our community, as well as those that promote literacy, education, youth mentorship and morale as a path from poverty. Congressman Katko has supported the YouthBuild program, which aids low-income students in pursuing their high school diploma or GED while providing mentoring services and teaching leadership skills. To this effect, he has engaged local educators to remedy the underperformance in inner-city schools. Protecting American interests and national security by working in a leadership position both as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel. Two pieces of Katko-introduced legislation to enhance security measures and efficiency at domestic airports passed the House early in the 114th Congress with broad, bipartisan support. Katko has also introduced legislation to keep the vast northern border secure, and supports strong border security and technology funding in the upcoming appropriations process. Rep. Katko participated in a Congressional Delegation visit to the 174th Fighter Attack Wing and Fort Drum, and later emphasized the importance of these upstate defense installations to Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter during his visit to Syracuse University. Katko also submitted a statement in support of the 174th to the House Armed Services Committee regarding the National Defense Authorization Act. Katko has visited Syracuse-based defense manufacturing facilities SRC, Saab-Sensis and Lockheed Martin to learn more about defense manufacturing in the region and the importance of cutting-edge weapons systems. As Congress authorizes and appropriates money for our nation’s defense, Rep. Katko has pushed for increased funding for vital, high-quality defense technologies, some of which are produced in Central New York. Delivery of quality constituent service. With offices in each of the four counties of NY-24, Rep. Katko’s constituent service team is made up of experienced caseworkers and trained social workers. Katko has returned nearly $347,000 in benefits to constituents across the 24th Congressional District, with the most dollars reimbursed to Social Security and Medicare recipients and U.S. military service members and veterans. “I’ve spent the past four months meeting with the hardworking men and women of Central New York – with small business owners, farmers, seniors, veterans, teachers, community advocates, and civic leaders in each of the four counties I represent,” continued Katko. “With their input and expertise, I’ve been able to effectively advocate for Central New York in Congress.” In addition to the above accomplishments, Congressman Katko has supported local efforts in the receipt of more than six million dollars in grants across the 24th Congressional District. Katko and his staff have met with over 200 Central New York constituents, community organizations, hospitals, veterans groups, educators, child & family service providers, farmers, and other local advocacy groups. Rep. Katko has responded to over 6,000 constituent letters and phone calls since taking office in January. “I’m honored to work for Central New York – and we’re just getting started,” concluded Katko. “I am committed to reporting regularly on the work I’m doing for our district, and I’ll continue to reach across the aisle and fight for bipartisan solutions in Congress.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or follow along on Facebook and Twitter. ###
04.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chair of the bipartisan Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, released the following statement regarding the arrest of an Ohio man by federal authorities on charges of training with a terrorist organization overseas and planning to commit acts of terror in the United States. “The arrest of an American citizen planning an act of terror against our country demonstrates just how seriously we must take the threat of terrorist-trained extremists returning to the United States homeland,” said Katko. “The efforts of our bipartisan Task Force to shut down terrorist travel are more important now than ever.” His statement comes one day after Katko and fellow members of Task Force visited the National Counterterrorism Center to assess government efforts to keep extremists out of the United States, especially individuals who have fought overseas with the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and al-Qaeda-linked groups. “We have come a long way since 9/11 in working to keep terrorists from slipping into the United States,” Rep. Katko continued. “I commend the staff of the NationalCounterterrorism Center for their hard work and sophisticated efforts to connect-the-dots and stop individuals who are seeking to harm our country. But there is still more work to be done, especially to stop ISIS from luring Americans overseas and to keep extremists that they have radicalized from setting foot on our shores. Katko concluded, “Over the coming months, our Task Force will work to identify gaps in our defenses and recommend ways to enhance our security against this surging threat. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or follow along on Facebook and Twitter.
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today announced that the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to repeal the federal estate tax, also known as the death tax. Currently, if an individual’s assets exceed the specified federal exemption amount at his or her death, these assets are taxed at a rate of 40% before they can be passed on to surviving family members. For Central New Yorkers, these “assets” are often a small business or family farm – and a death tax bill only makes a family’s loss even more devastating. “Family farms and small businesses are a critical driver of economic growth in Central New York,” said Rep. John Katko. “Many of these families and small business owners have worked hard for years to pass on opportunity to their children – and today’s legislation will prevent them from being penalized at death by onerous tax regulations.” Because family farms and locally-owned businesses find it difficult to come up with the cash to pay the estate tax, they are often forced to liquidate the business or farm to pay the tax bill. Death tax revenue accounts for only a small fraction of federal revenue, while the impact on local families and farmers can be enormous. “Repealing the estate tax has long been a priority of New York Farm Bureau. Most of a farmer’s assets are tied up in the very foundations of the farm. Yet, the surviving members of farm family may have to sell off land or equipment just to pay a death tax. This only impedes a family’s ability to pass on the farm to the next generation. I appreciate Rep. Katko’s vote to bury the death tax,” said Dean Norton, New York Farm Bureau president. In addition to repealing the federal estate tax, the House this week passed a number of tax reforms, including nine bills to end IRS abuse and H.R. 622, the State and Local Sales Tax Deduction Fairness Act. “Tax Day is a daunting deadline for many Central New York families – but also a reminder that our cumbersome tax code needs serious, comprehensive reform to empower and save more money for the hardworking men and women, small business owners, and farmers across NY-24,” concluded Congressman Katko. “I’m proud to take this opportunity to work towards a fairer and simpler tax code with lower rates and fewer loopholes to create a healthier economy, more jobs, and greater opportunities.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District of New York, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or follow along on Facebook and Twitter. ###
04.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Member of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure issued the following statement after the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) provided recommendations to protect the flying public against cyberattacks: “The troubling findings of the recent GAO report reveal the real possibility of cyberattack on the hundreds of aircrafts that fly commercially across our country. “This report exposes an enormous vulnerability in our system – that any traveler could gain unauthorized access to cockpit avionics systems from the cabin. Nearly 14 years since 9/11, terrorists have adapted both to our airport security protocols and to the modern communication systems used in aircraft systems, requiring us to be agile and resourceful in ensuring airport and in-flight security. “In my role as Chairman of the Committee on Transportation Security, I have made it a priority this Congress to examine and improve security at our nation’s airports. In light of the significant threats we face, I urge FAA to quickly implement the GAO’s latest recommendations to eliminate these vulnerabilities and prevent cyberattacks on aircrafts in flight. “I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to move forward with legislation to ensure we have ample security in our nation’s airports.” Rep. Katko was a co-requester of the GAO report, which can be found here. The report makes three recommendations that the FAA: “1) assess the cost and time needed to develop a [cyber-]threat model; 2) include [the Office of Aviation Safety, which certified new airplanes] on the Cyber Security Steering Committee [tasked to improve FAA’s cybersecurity]; and 3) develop a plan to implement [Federal cybersecurity standards] revisions within OMB timeframes.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties. For more information, visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
04.07.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) and New York State Assemblyman William B. Magnarelli (129th District) today announced the creation of a six-month task force to address gaps in pediatric mental health care in Central New York. Central New York currently lacks a sufficiently integrated system for child and adolescent mental health inpatient and outpatient services. Commercial insurance companies typically require out-of-network approval for admission to Hutchings Psychiatric Center, the only local inpatient facility equipped to handle adolescent mental healthcare in Central New York. This forces some local families to travel to treatment centers in Auburn, Utica, Saratoga, or even outside of New York State to receive adequate care. “I’ve made it a priority to start a dialogue on strengthening access to pediatric mental health care in Central New York, and I’m proud to partner with Assemblyman Magnarelli and our many local service providers and advocates to start this conversation, “said Rep. John Katko. “Because of discontinuities and other gaps in the care system, young people in our area do not always receive the best available care. In order to treat and build better lives for the hundreds of Central New York families whose lives are impacted by mental illness and substance abuse, we need real and early intervention solutions in our psychiatric care centers, in our schools, and in our community.” Assemblyman William B. Magnarelli said, “I’m happy to partner with Congressman Katko on this serious issue. Families in Central New York should not be forced to send their child hours away to get the proper mental health care. These families are already in crisis, and the lack of local treatment options only compounds their stress. I hope that beginning this dialogue with Federal, State and local stakeholders will lead to better youth mental health treatment options in the region. I look forward to working on this problem and finding solutions in the months ahead.” The Task Force, made up of local mental health and substance use disorder treatment providers, leaders from the Syracuse affiliate of the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI), grassroots health care organizations and advocates, Central New York hospitals, and local government officials, is tasked with assessing and improving local pediatric mental health care services. Members of the Mental Health/Behavioral Health Task Force include: Gina Atkins, RN, Associate Administrator for Behavioral Services for Oswego Health Ray Bizarri, Director of Social Services for Cayuga County Mark Cattalani, M.D., Executive Director of Hutchings Psychiatric Center Robert Gregory, M.D., Professor & Chair, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Studies at SUNY Upstate Medical University Mary Anne Kelley, Local Advocate Jamie Leszczynski, SAVE (Suicide Awareness Voices of Education) CNY Linda McAleer, RN, Director of Nursing, Pediatrics, Upstate Golisano Children’s Hospital Tom McKeown, Executive Director of ARISE Mark Murphy, RN, NP, Senior Vice President for System Development and Ambulatory Care Leadership at St. Joseph’s Hospital Health Center Mary Jane O’Connor, Family Tapestry Sherie Ramsgard, MSN, NPP, Local Practitioner, and owner of Whole Mental Wellness Ann Rooney, Deputy Onondaga County Executive for Human Services Karen Winters Schwartz, President, NAMI Syracuse Glady Smith, New York State Office of Mental Health Monika Taylor, LCSW, CASAC, Director of Behavioral Health for Crouse Hospital The six-month Task Force will meet biweekly and present a report of its findings, including suggestions for providing greater access to families and patients who seek ongoing treatment, by September 2015. ###
04.01.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – Following his call for greater transparency and accountability from the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he has called upon NCAA President Dr. Mark Emmert to reconsider the sanctions imposed on Syracuse University. In a letter sent earlier this week, Rep. Katko decried the loss of student scholarships and noted the importance of Syracuse University’s program to the Central New York economy. Katko highlighted the excessive duration of the investigation and the seemingly disproportionate punishment which stripped the University of 12 student scholarships and canceled 108 victories. Rep. Katko stated, “While I understand and agree that Syracuse University must take responsibility for any misconduct, the sanctions imposed by the NCAA do the most harm to students. By barring opportunities for future student-athletes to receive a college degree, the NCAA directly contradicts its goal of promoting higher education opportunities for all students.” Katko encouraged the NCAA to reconsider its decision, noting that the arbitrary decision-making processes implemented by the organization remain unexplained in this instance. He expressed serious concern that the NCAA standards are not applied uniformly nationwide. Last month, Rep. Katko called for greater transparency from the NCAA and pledged to support efforts in Congress to make necessary changes to support the health, safety, and welfare of collegiate athletes. “Congress plays an important role in the oversight of higher education, and I share the NCAA’s goal of preventing the recurrence of events that led to the imposition of sanctions on Syracuse University,” concluded Katko. “But these harsh sanctions only harm innocent student-athletes and demean an incredibly loyal and successful coach.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties. For more information, visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today applauded the passage of bipartisan legislation to strengthen and reform Medicare. H.R. 2, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives with overwhelming bipartisan support, permanently replaces the flawed Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula with a more stable, long-term physician payment system that rewards quality care. “I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their commitment to improving access to care for those dependent on Medicare,” said Rep. Katko. “This legislation will ensure Central New York seniors can access their doctors and will improve their quality of care.” Since 2003, the SGR formula has been ignored and overridden by Congress with a so-called “Doc Fix” on 17 separate occasions, freezing physician payment rates each year and adding more spending and new programs. H.R. 2 reforms the Medicare payment system by encouraging high-quality patient care while providing protections for hospitals. “Today’s legislation is not only a historic landmark for the American healthcare system but also a sign that Congress is still capable of working in a bipartisan manner to get things done.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties. For more information, visit https://katko.house.gov, or follow along on Facebook and Twitter. ###
03.23.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – Following sanctions imposed by the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) on Syracuse University, U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today called for greater transparency from the NCAA and pledged to support efforts in Congress to make necessary changes to support the health, safety, and welfare of collegiate athletes. The recent conclusion of the NCAA’s eight-year investigation into academic and drug policy violations by the Syracuse University men’s basketball program resulted in harshly-imposed NCAA sanctions which stripped the University of 12 scholarships and canceled 108 victories, despite Syracuse University’s self-imposed ban on post-season play. “The NCAA is given tremendous power by its member organizations while being subject to minimal oversight,” said Rep. Katko “While I do not doubt the NCAA’s desire to promote high standards among its members, its recent eight-year investigation of Syracuse University Athletics leaves as many questions as it does answers. It’s time for Congress to take action to demand greater accountability from the NCAA.” The NCAA is the largest collegiate athletic association in the United States with over 1,000 colleges and universities and over 430,000 student athletes participating in the Association. It generates nearly $800 million in revenue each year. “I have serious concerns that the NCAA standards are not applied in a uniform fashion nationwide. I am also concerned that the timing of the sanctions, which were made public on the eve of SU’s last nationally televised game of the season, seemed designed to maximize the humiliation of Coach Boeheim, a Hall of Fame coach who has stayed loyal to his alma matter since he was a teenager.” ​“I am also concerned that the harsh sanctions imposed on Syracuse University do the most harm to student athletes,” continued Katko. “Syracuse University has taken responsibility for any wrongdoing on its part. As the very individuals the NCAA is charged to protect, students should be at the forefront of this conversation – but right now they are suffering the most. Our collegiate athletes were stripped of scholarships and they deserve a more thoughtful and appropriate response from the NCAA. I will make that known to the NCAA.” Katko also called for a continued focus in Congress on NCAA issues. He pledged to support legislative initiatives to improve the health and education of student athletes and require greater accountability from the NCAA, including the NCAA Act, legislation introduced last Congress aimed at providing greater protections for student athletes and schools by reforming the arbitrary enforcement processes utilized by the NCAA. “We need to reform the NCAA’s capricious arbitration procedures,” Katko concluded. “The University, many innocent and future student-athletes, and support staff were severely damaged by this decision and I stand ready to support them.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties. For more information, visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.12.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today announced that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will provide funding for vital dredging at the Port of Oswego. The recently allocated funds will allow the harbor of the Port of Oswego to be sufficiently dredged to its functional channel depths. “As the only deep water port on the U.S. shores of Lake Ontario, the Port of Oswego is a critical asset for attracting new economic growth opportunities in Oswego County and across Central New York,” said Rep. Katko. “I have been in close contact with the Army Corps of Engineers in Buffalo and appreciate their efforts to make this project a reality. Dredging the shallow waterways of the harbor will allow more ships to navigate the port and provide an enormous boost to our regional economy.” In 2014, the Army Corps of Engineers began dredging of the Port of Oswego in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. The recently completed dredging brought Oswego Harbor back to pre-storm conditions, removing large deposits of sediment which had rendered shipping lanes unusable. For the current fiscal year, $1.285 million dollars has been allotted for further dredging of the Port of Oswego to bring the harbor to its functional channel depths. Additionally, work to restore the detached Oswego Breakwater will begin this summer to repair impact from Hurricane Sandy. Each day, sediment settles at the bottom of Lake Ontario, reducing water depth and creating safety hazards for shipping barges, cargo ships, and recreational boats – all of which help pump millions of dollars into the local economy. Current low water levels in Lake Ontario, combined with the buildup of sediment, have made the Port too shallow for many ships to carry full loads into the harbor. This investment will allow more ships to come in and unload goods, stimulating economic growth and job creation in the area. Last night, Rep. Katko hosted a widely attended listening session in the City of Oswego focused on creating a more economically viable Oswego and Central New York. He was joined by a number of local economic and community partners in Oswego County, including Zelko Kirincich, Executive Director of the Port of Oswego. At the listening session, Zelko Kirincich stated, “The harbor has too long been threatened by shallow waterways that restrict access for ships navigating the port. The future success of Oswego is dependent upon providing an attractive location for investment. Dredging the port will keep us at peak efficiency, keeping the waterway open for business and setting the stage for local economic growth. The Port of Oswego has the potential to renew and continue to develop the waterfront to promote both business and our community, and we have a strong partner in Rep. John Katko.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or visit www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
03.06.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he will host additional listening sessions in Wayne and Oswego Counties. Each listening session will focus on a unique topic, providing a platform for a discussion of districtwide priorities. “These listening sessions provide an opportunity for me to hear the concerns of the people of the 24th District on some of most important issues facing Central New York,” said Rep. Katko. “I look forward to continuing the community discussion across the district.” The events are free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Details are as follows: Assisting Our Wayne County Veterans Monday, March 9th at 6:30 p.m. Wayne County Public Safety Building 7376 State Route 31 Town of Lyons Monday’s Listening Session will be moderated by Town of Lyons Supervisor and U.S. Army veteran Brian Manktelow. Panelists will include representatives from agencies that provide services to Wayne County veterans including Pat Skelly, Director of Wayne County Veterans Service Agency, as well as Earl Fontenot and Amanda Rawson of Clear Path for Veterans. Economic Development in Oswego County Wednesday, March 11th at 6:30 p.m. Oswego City Hall 13 West Oneida Street City of Oswego Wednesday's listening session will be moderated by Jeff Grimshaw, Director of the Office of Business & Community Relations at SUNY Oswego. The listening session will include Zelko Kirincich, Executive Director of the Port of Oswego Authority, Pat Carroll, Business Manager at United Association of Plumbers & Steamfitters Local 73, and Michael Treadwell, Executive Director of Operation Oswego County as panelists. Rep. Katko has previously hosted listening sessions in Cayuga and Onondaga Counties. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
03.03.2015	Washington, DC – With consideration of funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) scheduled for later today, six Republican Members of the New York Congressional Delegation released the following statement: “We will be voting in support today of legislation to fund DHS for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2015. While we strongly disagree with the unilateral actions that President Obama has taken, we believe the courts – not cutting off funding for the entire Department – is the most effective way to stop his actions. We support the federal lower court decision that put an injunction on the executive actions taken by the President, and we believe it should be upheld. Furthermore, moving forward, we hope to work in a bipartisan way to reform our broken immigration system through legislative action. “However, DHS is critical to our national security – ISIS is a real threat to America, and we must provide full funding to keep New York and our country safe. We urge the rest of our colleagues to join us in supporting legislation to fund DHS.” Republican Members of the delegation issuing the statement are: Rep. Peter King, Rep. Chris Gibson, Rep. Richard Hanna, Rep. Chris Collins, Rep. John Katko, and Rep. Elise Stefanik. ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul (TX-10), chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, and U.S. Rep. Bennie Thompson (MS-2), ranking member of the Committee on Homeland Security, announced the creation of a bipartisan “Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel” in response to the threat from extremists fighting overseas and the danger they pose to the United States. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) was named the Republican Lead for the Task Force. “We face a constantly evolving terrorist threat to the United States homeland, and Congress must remain vigilant to protect the American people,” said Rep. Katko. “Violent Islamist extremism is surging, and terrorist groups are attracting recruitsfrom all corners of the globe. More must be done to deter, detect, and disrupt the travel of these extremists between countries in order to keep them from reaching our country but also to keep them from reaching the battlefield. I am honored to take a leadership role on this bipartisan Task Force, and I lookforward to reviewing the strategies and programs in place to diminish the threat.” The bipartisan Task Force is comprised of five Republicans and three Democrats, and is tasked with assessing the U.S. government’s efforts to obstruct terrorist travel and to keep violent extremists from entering the United States. The Task Force will meet with government agencies, top officials, outside experts, and others to generate policy solutions and develop legislative recommendations to mitigate threats to the United States. Rep. Loretta Sanchez (CA-47) will take the Democratic Lead. Chairman McCaul stated, “Thousands of Westerners, including Americans, have traveled overseas to fight with terrorist groups in Syria and Iraq. Armed with military training, combat experience, extremist connections and Western passports these individuals pose an exceptionally grave threat to America’s security and are only a plane-flight away from our shores. In recent months, terrorists have struck multiple Western cities, including Copenhagen, Paris, Sydney, Ottawa and beyond. We need to make sure we are doing everything possible to prevent these fighters and other terrorists from traveling to the United States to carry out more attacks. I am eager for the Task Force to start its work and to provide recommendations on confronting this urgent threat.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties. He currently serves on the Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs thesubcommittee on Transportation Security. For more information, visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.17.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today set forth his priorities for his inaugural term in Congress. Katko has pledged to work with both parties to help grow the local economy, create jobs and improve everyday life for Central New York. His efforts will be supported by continuous engagement with his constituents. “Fighting for Central New York is my highest priority in Congress,” Rep. Katko stated. “ I look forward to engaging with constituents across NY-24 and explaining my plans to be an effective advocate for them at the federal level.” Katko’s priorities include: Engaging in an ongoing discussion of the I-81 rebuilding project with stakeholders and local officials to ensure a balanced and comprehensive consideration of options for the rebuild, while ensuring that local and state needs are heard at the federal level. Fighting for affordable higher education and supporting our local education institutions. Supporting policies that improve health care in Central New York through lower costs and expanded access for families, veterans, and senior citizens, while supporting our vast local infrastructure of health care providers and hospitals. Protecting Central New York’s agriculture community. Working for policies that promote economic growth in Central New York and engaging with local small-businesses, manufacturers and chambers of commerce. Supporting Central New York tourism efforts such as the Harriet Tubman House in Cayuga County as well as Fort Ontario and the Safe Haven in Oswego County. Prioritizing a commitment to veterans by visiting local Veterans Affairs Medical Facilities, establishing a Veterans Advisory Council, and working to hold the VA accountable while supporting its mission. Creating an adolescent mental health care task force to address gaps in pediatric mental health care services in Central New York. Initiating a local conversation on the heroin epidemic in Central New York and around the nation by working with local, state and federal officials to combat this growing problem. Providing forums for community approaches toward solving generational poverty, not only in Syracuse but also in Wayne, Cayuga and Oswego Counties. Protecting American interests and national security by working towards safer travel across our nation and keeping our borders secure. Just over one month after being sworn in as Central New York’s representative in Congress, Rep. Katko has already begun to work with community groups and civic leaders throughout the district to address the collective challenges of Central New Yorkers. "In most of these named priority areas, I have already begun the discussion with local people on the front lines," Katko continued. “It is critically important that we support local economic opportunity while addressing looming social needs. It all adds up to fighting for Central New York.” Katko said he will report regularly on progress and stressed the need for comment and participation by all. "If I have missed issues that need addressing, I'm sure I'll be reminded by constituents, and I welcome that input." Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.17.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today announced that he will host listening sessions in each county of the 24th Congressional District. Each listening session will focus on a unique topic, providing a platform for a discussion of districtwide priorities. “I’ve pledged to have an open door and to hear the thoughts and concerns of individuals across my district,” said Rep. Katko. “These events will provide public opportunities to initiate a community discussion on issues of significant importance to Central New York.” The events are free and open to the public. Only credentialed members of the media will be permitted to tape. Details are as follows: Strengthening Agriculture in Cayuga County Tuesday, February 17th at 6:30 p.m. Auburn City Hall, Common Council Chambers 24 South Street in the City of Auburn Tuesday’s Listening Session will be moderated by City of Auburn Mayor Michael Quill. Agriculture panelists will include Cayuga County Farm Bureau President Ray Lockwood, John Izzo, owner of Izzo’s White Barn Winery, and Brian Shiels of Shiels Farm in King Ferry. Initiating a Community Conversation on Heroin and Public Safety Thursday, February 19th at 6:30 p.m. Dewitt Town Hall 5400 Butternut Drive in East Syracuse Thursday’s listening session will be moderated by John Duncan, Member of the Town of Dewitt Police Commission and Former Chairman of the Syracuse/County of Onondaga Drug and Alcohol Abuse Commission. The listening session will include panelists Donna Knapp of the Syracuse Prevention Network, Fayetteville Manlius Superintendent Dr. Corliss Kaiser, Monika Taylor, Director of Substance Abuse and Behavioral Health Services for Crouse Hospital, and Captain John Anton of the Dewitt Police Department, who has served as a longtime Youth Investigator and DARE Officer. Additional listening sessions in Wayne and Oswego Counties will be announced in the coming weeks. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ##
02.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Less that one week after introducing two bipartisan bills to enhance security measures and efficiency at domestic airports, both measures sponsored by Rep. John Katko (NY-24) have passed the U.S. House of Representatives. The bipartisan bills introduced by Katko are designed to enhance airport security measures in a cost-effective manner. H.R. 720, the Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act, requires TSA to verify that all U.S. airports have appropriate security response plans in case of an active shooter or other threat targeting the airport. These include plans for evacuating travelers, conducting joint exercises within the airport community, and regularly testing communications equipment. The bill is named after the TSA agent who tragically lost his life in the line of duty in a November 2013 shooting at Los Angeles International Airport. H.R. 720 passed the House 411-1. H.R. 719, the TSA Office of Inspection Accountability Act, ensures that funding is used wisely by TSA. It would specifically ensure that TSA criminal investigators who are charged with investigated misconduct among TSA employees spend at least 50 percent of their time conducting criminal investigations in order to receive premium law enforcement pay, training, and other benefits. According to the Homeland Security Inspector General, TSA cannot confirm that these investigators meet the existing legal requirements for such benefits, which will cost the taxpayer as much as $17 million over five years if uncorrected. H.R. 719 passed the House 414-0. “I’m proud to announce that today, the House passed both of my commonsense, bipartisan measures to bolster security and productivity at our nation’s airports,” said Rep. Katko. “We have learned a lot from recent security breaches at airports nationwide. By strengthening airport security and reforming TSA practices so that taxpayer dollars are spent efficiently, both of these bills will help ensure that travel is safer across our country. I would like to thank Homeland Security Chairman McCaul and Ranking Member of the Transportation Security subcommittee Kathleen Rice for their leadership and support of these measures.” Katko chaired his inaugural Transportation Security subcommittee hearing, entitled “A Review of Access Control Measures at Our Nation’s Airports” last Tuesday. The hearing followed reports of several high profile security breaches at domestic airports. Specifically, the hearing examined security programs designed to mitigate potential insider threats from airport employees, TSA personnel, and others who have access to sterile areas of domestic airports. Homeland Security Chairman McCaul stated, “The tragic shooting at Los Angeles International Airport in November of 2013 took the life of TSA Officer Gerardo Hernandez and wounded three others. Today, I am pleased that my colleagues joined me in passing the Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act, which supports the airport community’s best practices to better prepare for and respond to active shooter scenarios. This legislation is the result of important lessons the committee gleaned from multiple hearings on the LAX shooting. The House also passed the TSA Office of Inspection Accountability Act, commonsense legislation to save taxpayer dollars through reforms to TSA employee management. Two years ago, the DHS Inspector General found that TSA’s misclassification of some employees is wasting taxpayers’ dollars. This bill ensures employee workload matches position and pay within the Office of Inspection. I thank Subcommittee Chairman Katko for his leadership on these bills and I urge the Senate to pass these important pieces of legislation.” The bills are Katko’s first to pass the U.S. House of Representatives since being sworn in to represent the 24th Congressional District in January 2015. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ##
02.06.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today urged that the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) and the Federal Highway Administration (FWHA) ensure a full range of options for the Interstate 81 reconstruction project are included in the state’s final scoping document for further study. Katko expressed this request in a letter to the FHWA. Currently, NYSDOT, in consultation with the FHWA, is finalizing a scoping report for the I-81 rehabilitation project. Previously, NYSDOT identified sixteen possibilities for rehabilitating or replacing the aging elevated portion of the highway that runs through downtown Syracuse. The number of options will be narrowed further in the final scoping document, expected to be presented to the public soon. NYSDOT will prepare and publicly release the scoping document with consultation from the FHWA. Reconstruction options have focused largely on rebuilding the elevated highway, replacing the elevated highway with a street-level boulevard and rerouting Interstate 81 around the City of Syracuse, burying the highway underground via a tunnel, or building a recessed highway with a ground level boulevard. “The reconstruction of I-81 is the largest civic project in the history of our district,” said Rep. Katko. “It is a once-in-a-generation decision that will shape Central New York’s transportation infrastructure and economy for decades to come. It is critical that we get this right the first time around – and that means making sure that all viable options are put on the table.” Katko’s letter to the FHWA noted the importance of including all reconstruction alternatives in the final scoping document, as any option not included in this document will be effectively thrown out of consideration permanently. Since taking office in January, Rep. Katko has fostered an ongoing discussion on the importance of ensuring a comprehensive study for the I-81 project with local, state, and federal leaders. Rep. Katko met today with New York State Senator John A. DeFrancisco (50th District) and representatives from Governor Andrew Cuomo’s office on the project. He has previously spoken with the New York State Department of Transportation, as well as the offices of Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney and Syracuse Mayor Stephanie Miner. Katko has also engaged with civic groups, such as Save 81, as well as local business entities, including CenterState CEO, to discuss the importance of examining all viable options for the reconstruction project. Katko continued, “As I meet with constituents and business groups across NY-24, I am continuously reminded of local concerns. For example, a boulevard-only option would cause massive congestion in the suburbs of Syracuse, since traffic that would normally pass along the Interstate would be rerouted around the City. This is why all options must be kept in consideration going forward.” Rep. Katko currently serves on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, where he is a member of the subcommittee on Highways and Transit. Importantly, the subcommittee will administer the reauthorization of federal surface transportation programs during the 114th Congress. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Days after chairing his first Transportation Security subcommittee hearing, Rep. John Katko (NY-24) has introduced two bipartisan bills to enhance security measures at domestic airports and to ensure funding is used wisely by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Katko’s inaugural Transportation Security subcommittee hearing, entitled “A Review of Access Control Measures at Our Nation’s Airports,” was held this past Tuesday, February 3. The hearing followed reports of several high profile security breaches at domestic airports. Specifically, the hearing examined security programs designed to mitigate potential insider threats from airport employees, TSA personnel, and others who have access to sterile areas of domestic airports. The bipartisan bills introduced by Katko are designed to enhance airport security measures in a cost-effective manner. H.R. 720, the Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act, directs the Department of Homeland Security to undertake a variety of activities to enhance security and communication at domestic airports, specifically requiring TSA to verify that all airports have appropriate security response plans. The bill is named after the TSA agent who tragically lost his life in the line of duty in a November 2013 shooting at Los Angeles International Airport. H.R. 719, the TSA Office of Inspection Accountability Act, ensures that funding is used wisely by TSA. It would require that TSA Criminal Investigators spend at least 50 percent of their time investigating, apprehending, or detaining individuals suspected of committing a crime. Currently, TSA does not necessitate that its Criminal Investigators meet this requirement, despite being considered law enforcement officers and receiving premium pay. “Threats to our nation’s transportation systems are constantly evolving, and it is critical that Congress act to preempt catastrophes at our nation’s airports by strengthening security protocols in the most cost-effective manner possible.” said Rep. Katko. “My subcommittee hearing earlier this week stemmed from security breaches in which loaded firearms were brought onto commercial airplanes by employees with airport access privileges. In light of that hearing, these bills provide a thoughtful response to create safer airports across our country by improving upon nationwide security protocols and facilitating commonsense TSA reform to save taxpayer dollars.” At Tuesday’s hearing, witnesses from the airport and airline industries, TSA and the FBI were questioned about potential ways to bolster access control measures to deter and prevent future security breaches, including 100% employee screenings, increased random screenings, expanding the list of disqualifying crimes for employees and more frequent criminal history records checks. ###
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. John Katko (NY-24), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security will hold the following hearing today to examine security programs designed to mitigate potential insider threats from airport employees, airline employees, TSA personnel, and others who have access to sterile areas of domestic airports. TUESDAY, February 3 at 2:00 p.m.: Subcommittee on Transportation Security A Review of Access Control Measures at Our Nation’s Airports 311 Cannon House Office Building Panel I Mr. Mark Hatfield, Acting Deputy Administrator, Transportation Security Administration, U.S. Department of Homeland Security Mr. Gary D. Perdue, Deputy Assistant Director, Counterterrorism Division, Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Department of Justice Panel II Ms. Sharon Pinkerton, Senior Vice President, Legislative and Regulatory Policy, Airlines for America Mr. Miguel Southwell, General Manager, Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport Subcommittee Chairman John Katko stated: "This hearing stems from a recent series of security breaches in which loaded firearms were brought onto commercial airplanes by employees with airport access privileges. Fortunately, these incidents did not end in tragedy, but there is much to be learned from what occurred. “In light of the significant threats we face, the subcommittee will examine current nationwide protocols for employee access at airports, and the circumstances that led to the breaches. “Nearly 14 years after 9/11, terrorists have adapted to our security protocols in ways that require us to be agile, resourceful and responsive. I am confident we can improve access control and employee screening measures at our airports." Live video of the hearing will be available at 2:00 p.m. here. ##
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives yesterday passed a series of bipartisan measures to combat human trafficking and provide much-needed services to human trafficking victims. Rep. Katko served as an original co-sponsor on two of the bills, HR 350, the Human Trafficking Prevention, Intervention & Recovery Act and HR 460, the Human Trafficking Detection Act. “Human trafficking is a modern-day version of slavery – and as a former federal organized crime prosecutor, I’ve seen its horrors within the borders of the United States,” said Congressman Katko. “I’m proud to serve as an original co-sponsor on comprehensive legislation to raise awareness of these heinous crimes, boost protections for domestic human trafficking victims, and combat exploitations in the United States.” Human trafficking is a significant, global problem. The FBI has reported that sex trafficking is the fastest-growing business of organized crime and the third-largest criminal enterprise in the world. Specifically, HR 460 ensures that sufficient training is provided for those working at our borders to detect, intercept, and disrupt human trafficking. HR 350 requires a review of state and federal trafficking prevention efforts and identifies strategies to prevent children from becoming human trafficking victims. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
01.27.2015	SYRACUSE, NY – House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (PA-9) today appointed Rep. John Katko (NY-24) to serve on three subcommittees during the 114th Congress. Congressman Katko will serve on the subcommittees on Highways & Transit, Railroads, Pipelines & Hazardous Materials, and Water Resources & Environment. “I am committed to strengthening our local infrastructure, creating jobs, and ensuring safe, but efficient travel and commerce across our country,” said Rep. Katko. “Over the course of the next two years, there are a number of issues that will come before the Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure that will have a major and lasting impact on Central New York. I’m honored to provide a strong voice for Central New York on my subcommittees and to work towards making our transportation systems stronger.” The Subcommittee on Highways & Transit is tasked with overseeing the development of national surface transportation policy, as well as construction and improvement of highway and transit facilities. Importantly, the subcommittee will administer the reauthorization of federal surface transportation programs during the 114th Congress. The Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines & Hazardous Materials has jurisdiction over economic and safety regulations of railroads and the agencies that administer those regulations. The Subcommittee also oversees the transportation of hazardous materials, pipeline safety, and rail labor relations. The Subcommittee on Water Resources & Environment oversees matters relating to water resources development, conservation and management, water pollution control and water infrastructure, and hazardous waste cleanup. The 24th Congressional District is home to the Port of Oswego, one of the first U.S. Ports on the Great Lakes which handles more than a million tons of commodities annually. Central New York is also home to the Syracuse Regional Airport Authority and to other mass transit and regional rail in Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego counties. “The Committee has a full agenda for the 114th Congress, including measures addressing surface transportation, aviation, passenger rail, pipeline safety, emergency management, and maritime transportation programs,” Chairman Shuster said. “Rep. Katko will be an invaluable resource to his subcommittees, and I look forward to working with him to shape policies that will strengthen infrastructure across our nation.” In addition to the Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure, Rep. Katko serves on the Committee on Homeland Security, where he chairs the subcommittee on Transportation Security. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.22.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today announced his introduction of bipartisan legislation to ensure adequate safeguards are put in place to secure the northern border. The bill (H.R. 455) would require the Department of Homeland Security to conduct a northern border threat analysis. The bill is Katko’s first since being elected to serve Central New York in the 114th Congress and has bipartisan support from his fellow Homeland Security Committee members including Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, Rep. Candice Miller (MI-10), as well as Rep. Peter King (NY-2), and Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26). “As a former federal prosecutor on both the northern border in New York and the southern border in El Paso, Texas, I’ve seen first-hand the issues our nation faces countering drug trafficking and potential terrorist acts,” said Katko. “While great attention is justifiably given to the challenges of securing our southern border, ensuring the safety of our vast northern border is critical to our nation’s security.” The United States shares nearly 4,000 miles of northern border with Canada in the lower-48 states alone. The 24th Congressional District includes portions of the New York-Canada border and notably, is home to the Nine Mile Point Nuclear Generating Station, the R.E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant, the Hancock Field Air National Guard Base, the Port of Oswego, and the Syracuse Hancock International Airport. In addition to the introduction of his inaugural bill, the House Committee on Homeland Security, on which Katko sits, passed the Secure Our Borders First Act (H.R. 399) late Wednesday with the inclusion of a comprehensive authorization amendment offered by Katko. Katko’s amendment significantly enhances this legislation by authorizing the same type of technology and resource deployment on the northern border as it does for the southern border. “Katko’s amendment to H.R. 399 addresses the critical threats to our northern border,” said Chairman McCaul. “I believe his amendment strengthens the overall direction of the bill and helps protect the American people and sovereignty of this nation.” The Secure Our Borders First Act also includes the threat assessment language of Katko’s standalone bill, H.R. 455. “I’m committed to enacting tough border security to ensure the safety of Upstate New York and the sovereignty of our nation,” Katko continued. “Requiring timely assessment of the threats posed by illegal entry on both the northern and southern border and adequately responding to these threats is crucial to making that happen.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes all of Onondaga, Cayuga, and Wayne Counties and a portion of Oswego County. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.20.2015	U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24), today announced that he will be joined for the President’s State of the Union address by Camillus native and retired U.S. Marine, Corporal Jeffrey J. Cleland (USMC, Ret.). Born and raised in Central New York, Jeff joined the military shortly after graduating from West Genesee High School. Jeff served as an Infantry Machine Gunner (0331) assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 8th Marines, Fox Company (America’s Battalion). He retired from the United States Marine Corps in 2008 due to wounds sustained while fighting in Iraq. After his return from Iraq, Jeff earned his Bachelor’s degree in Policy Studies (Public Affairs) from Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University. He now works with veterans and their families as a Program Manager of Community Engagement & Innovation for the Institute for Veterans and Military Families (IVMF) at Syracuse University. In this role, Jeff fosters and maintains relationships with the community agencies that provide services to veterans and their families. Prior to his current position at Syracuse University, Jeff worked as a Peer Support Specialist at Clear Path for Veterans in Chittenango, NY, assisting veterans and their families in understanding their benefits and aiding in community outreach. Jeff lives in Camillus with his wife, Kim, and their two children. “Jeff has dedicated his life to selflessly serving our country, both as an active duty Marine and as a veteran devoted to serving his fellow Central New York veterans and their families,” said Katko. “I am honored and humbled to have him as my guest for the president’s State of the Union address this evening.” “I was truly astounded and honored when Congressman Katko asked me to attend the State of the Union address as his guest,” said Cleland. “I never expected to be so rewarded for my service to this country and to its veterans, but it is assuring to know that Rep. Katko has our back.” Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes Onondaga, Cayuga, and Oswego Counties. For more information, please visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko ###
01.15.2015	SYRACUSE – U.S. Congressman John Katko (NY-24) today joined No Labels, a bipartisan congressional problem solvers group. The group’s membership consists of Democrats and Republicans from both the House and Senate who meet regularly to build trust across the aisle and to find common ground on issues before Congress. “I have a responsibility to serve the people of my district, and I am committed to working in a bipartisan manner to achieve success for Central New York,” said Rep. Katko. “That means departing from the partisan political battles and instead, facilitating a conversation across the aisle to get things done in Washington, regardless of political ideology.” The congressional group currently has over 70 members and is part of a larger, national grassroots movement of Democrats, Republicans, and independents dedicated to a new politics of problem solving. “Representative Katko has shown a firm commitment to problem solving,” said Bill Galston, a co-founder of No Labels. “It is this kind of leadership, coupled with the creation of a National Strategic Agenda, that is going to help us solve some of the big issues we’re facing as a country.” Katko continued, “I firmly believe this group can help end the partisan divide and allow us to work towards common ground to grow our economy, fix our healthcare system, balance our budget, and move America towards energy independence.” In the 114th Congress, Rep. Katko has already signed on as an original cosponsor to a number of bipartisan bills, including a bill to repeal the Medical Device Tax. Congressman John Katko represents the 24th Congressional District, which includes Onondaga, Cayuga, Wayne, and Oswego Counties. For more information, visit https://katko.house.gov or www.facebook.com/RepJohnKatko. ###
01.08.2015	Syracuse, New York – U.S. Rep Michael McCaul, chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, today appointed U.S. Congressman-elect John Katko (NY-24) to serve as chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security in the 114th Congress. Katko was selected for the leadership position based on issues of regional importance to NY-24 and his background as a federal prosecutor. “I am honored to serve as the chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security,” said Katko. “I look forward to working with Chairman McCaul and all members of the committee to ensure transportation is safe across our country and right here in Central New York.” The House Committee on Homeland Security oversees the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and protects the United States against possible terrorist attack. The Subcommittee on Transportation Security is tasked with ensuring the safety of passenger and baggage screening, reforming transportation security, surface transportation, and transportation security regulations. Notably, the 24th Congressional District is home to portions of the New York-Canada border, the Nine Mile Point Nuclear Generating Station, the R.E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant, the Hancock Field Air National Guard Base, the Port of Oswego, and the Syracuse Hancock International Airport. Katko continued, “This appointment will allow me to better represent New York’s 24th District and I look forward to building on my experience with the Department of Justice. This assignment will also compliment my seat on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. There is no greater responsibility than keeping our citizens safe.” Since his election to U.S. Congress in November, Katko has visited with local leaders at the Port of Oswego and the Border Patrol station in Oswego County. Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul welcomed Katko, stating, “I am pleased to announce John Katko as the chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security. His experience at the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Justice Department, and the drug-enforcement division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in New York will prove beneficial as the subcommittee oversees DHS’s efforts to secure surface transportation systems and develop security measures to reduce the risk of a terrorist attack. I am confident that the subcommittee will prosper under John’s leadership and I look forward to working closely with him this Congress.” In addition to the House Committee on Homeland Security, Katko will also serve on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. ###
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative John Katko was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable John Katko was elected to serve as representative of New York’s 24th Congressional District. Representative John Katko was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
