03.12.2019	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on today’s shooting in Kalamazoo. “Today’s shooting reminds us of the incredible danger facing our law enforcement officials. I join our entire community in praying for a full recovery for the Kalamazoo officer who was shot, and our hearts are with their loved ones and all those who are impacted. I have been in contact with Kalamazoo Public Safety Chief Karianne Thomas and commended her team and all the first responders for their swift action at the scene. We are so grateful for the brave men and women who work to protect our families and our communities. Every minute of every day these officers put their lives on the line. When you see a law enforcement official, be sure to thank them for their service. I share Chief Thomas’ thoughts that we are grateful everyone is going home safely.”
03.11.2019	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the Trump Administration released their Fiscal Year 2020 budget, proposing to cut nearly $270 million from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative: “Protecting our natural resources, whether they be the Great Lakes, parks, or clean water, is a federal responsibility and priority. For the third year in a row, I will join colleagues on both sides of the aisle to fight the Administration’s proposed budget cuts to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. We have fought tooth and nail to stop these cuts before. You can expect a strong, bipartisan, Michigan-led effort to once again protect every penny of this critical program, and we will prevail. Putting funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative on the chopping block is a terrible idea and will not stand.”
02.26.2019	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement after voting for the resolution of disapproval to block President Donald Trump's emergency declaration. “The Constitution makes it clear that the power of the purse – “spending” – be initiated by the Congress. Our founding fathers believed in the principles of checks and balances, and it is our responsibility as members of Congress to maintain that authority – no matter who is President. Strengthening our borders is an urgent necessity, but declaring a national emergency and reprogramming already appropriated funds without the approval of Congress is a violation of the Constitution. All of us took an oath to protect and defend the Constitution. In this particular case, it is in fact likely that a majority of both the House and Senate will vote to disapprove the emergency designation. I would encourage the House and Senate to work together to find an appropriate solution to secure our border within the bounds of the Constitution. This particular emergency declaration establishes an unfortunate precedent for the future.”
02.07.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the passing of former Michigan Congressman John Dingell: “John Dingell’s colleagues - and I was proud to be one of them - were always educated, inspired, and in fact awed by him.” “With John you always knew where you stood. If you disagreed you better have a damn good reason why. Simply reverting to rhetoric or the party line would not fly because he knew the issues “inside and out” and always did his homework.” “John would outthink, outwork, and outfox nearly everyone.” “John was enormous in stature, integrity, and accomplishments. When he put his hand on your shoulder and spoke, you listened. Representing the great state of Michigan was truly a labor of love and John Dingell fiercely fought to support and rescue our auto industry in the toughest of times.” “There is a reason why a Dingell has represented Southeast Michigan for some 86 years. Their constituents know they always put country over everything else. They have all been chiseled from the same block of gold.” “My wife Amey and I want to express our deep condolences to his family. Especially his wife, and our good friend, Debbie during this difficult time.” In 2013, Upton named the Energy and Commerce Committee main hearing room the John D. Dingell Hearing Room. He served as Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee from 1981-1994 and again from 2007-2008.
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced the Benton Harbor’s YouthBuild program has been awarded $989,508 in grant funding from the U.S. Department of Labor. “This is good news for the Benton Harbor’s YouthBuild program. This program – the oldest of its kind in Michigan – provides our students with the real world skills to succeed in today’s economy - and specifically right here at home in Southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “Benton Harbor’s program has an incredible record of success over the last eight years and this grant will ensure the good work continues.” “We appreciate Congressman Upton’s support for this important project in Berrien, Cass, and Van Buren Counties,” said Al Pscholka, VP of Public Relations and Government Affairs at Kinexus. “We look forward to rebuilding the talent pipeline in construction trades that are in high demand in Southwest Michigan and experiencing a shortage. This program is a key cog in rebuilding that pipeline and setting up these students for success.” YouthBuild is an education and training program with a strong pre-apprenticeship component that helps at-risk youth complete high school or state equivalency degree programs, gain experience for in-demand occupations, and undergo training to build housing for low-income or homeless individuals and families in their communities.
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Michigan, recently re-introduced bipartisan legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives that champions the STEM education program FIRST Robotics. H.R. 500, the Christa McAuliffe Commemorative Coin Act of 2019, would mint a $1 coin in honor of Christa McAuliffe, the teacher and astronaut who perished in the 1986 Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, and support the FIRST Robotics program. Dean Kamen, founder of FIRST, with some original cosponsors of the bill “Michigan has the most FIRST Robotics teams in the country. Students on these teams learn valuable skills and will grow up to become inventors, teachers, engineers, and community leaders,” said Upton. “A few might even follow in the footsteps of Christa McAuliffe and become astronauts whose vision extends beyond our world. By launching students into STEM fields and careers, FIRST is helping to inspire the next generation of leaders that will conquer new frontiers. I’ve always been a proud supporter of STEM and FIRST Robotics and look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get this legislation done.” “Attending FIRST Robotics competitions is one of my favorite activities – even more than football or basketball games. The students are engaged, bright, energetic, and getting hands-on experience with cutting-edge technology,” said Dingell. “They are graduating at higher rates and are more likely to pursue careers in science and engineering, where they will help tackle some of our most pressing future challenges. We need to encourage this talent and creativity. This coin is a pathway to support these efforts and I am proud to work with Congressman Upton to encourage young people to be at the forefront of innovation and technology.” FIRST Robotics is the nation’s leading not-for-profit STEM education program established by inventor Dean Kamen. Once the money is recoupled by the U.S. Treasury for the cost of minting the commemorative coin, all of the profits would go to support FIRST Robotics. Upton and Dingell are joined by original co-sponsors Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Rep. John Katko (R-NY), Rep. Ann Kuster (D-NH), Rep. Chris Pappas (D-NH), and Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY). Upton and Dingell had previously introduced the bipartisan legislation in the 115th Congress.
12.20.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance the First Step Act by a 358 to 36 vote. This bipartisan legislation was passed by the U.S. Senate earlier this week by an overwhelming 87 to 12 vote and now heads to the president’s desk for signature. Upton was a co-sponsor of the underlying legislation. “This bipartisan bill marks the first significant improvements to the federal criminal justice system in decades,” said Upton. “As I’ve heard from local leaders like Berrien County Sherriff Paul Bailey, this effort will protect public safety while also helping inmates earn a second chance at life. We are taking a very positive step today by cutting recidivism, encouraging job training, education, mental health, and substance abuse treatments for those incarcerated, and making our criminal justice system fairer.” “An effective criminal justice system is an essential part of a safe community. We must hold those who break the law accountable, but we also must pursue justice in a fair way and work to reduce recidivism,” added Berrien County Sheriff Paul Bailey. “I want to commend Congressman Upton for his efforts supporting this bipartisan bill.” The First Step Act improves the federal prison system by allowing the Bureau of Prisons to better utilize effective recidivism programs to help offenders successfully re-enter society. It also improves fairness in prison sentences by recalibrating certain mandatory-minimum sentences, correcting disparities in drug sentencing, and granting greater discretion to judges in sentencing of low-level, non-violent drug offenders. All while preserving maximum potential sentences for violent and career criminals. The First Step Act has been a priority of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, of which Upton is a member, and is supported by groups such as the National Fraternal Order of Police and hundreds of former and current federal, state, and local law enforcement officials.
12.13.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-Michigan, and U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, today released the following statement on the second anniversary of the 21st Century Cures Act being signed into law by President Barack Obama: “21st Century Cures began with the spark of hope and continues today – pushing medical research in new and innovative ways. “We’re already seeing the results in action: The Beau Biden Cancer Moonshot is working to accelerate progress in cancer prevention and screening, the All of Us Research Program has more than 100,000 people signed up to help advance precision medicine and develop more effective ways to treat disease, the Brain Research Through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative is revolutionizing how we understand the human brain, and the Regenerative Medicine Innovation Project is supporting clinical research on adult stem cells. “21st Century Cures is also making needed reforms to our mental health system and at the Food and Drug Administration. We’re now able to get drugs and devices to the market more efficiently – helping to address drug prices. Finally, 21st Century Cures has played a pivotal role in addressing the opioid epidemic by funding the fight at the state level – with more than $1 billion in grants to states in need. “21st Century Cures was truly a bipartisan effort from start to finish. Today we can reflect on how far we have come, but it is also a reminder of all the work that remains. Patients and families are counting on us.” Further background: The House Energy and Commerce Committee has held five hearings on the implementation of the 21st Century Cures Act including three this year. These hearings have focused on specifics sections of the bill including mental health reforms, work being done by the Food and Drug Administration and the National Institutes of Health, and an update from the Office of the National Coordinator.
12.12.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to advance the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 2, the Agriculture Improvement Act: “As I’ve listened to our local farmers, they want support and certainty and the bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill delivers that. But the Farm Bill is not just for our farmers and ranchers, it is truly for all Americans as our agriculture industry plays a vital role in ensuring we have access to a safe and affordable food supply. It’s also good to see that provisions cutting school lunch assistance programs did not make the final version. Those provisions would have hurt Southwest Michigan kids and families. As our farmer friends continue to face challenges, it’s imperative we give them the tools they need to survive and thrive.” The Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 2 is supported by the Michigan Farm Bureau, previously passed the U.S. Senate, and now heads to the president’s desk for signature. Learn more here.
12.06.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) has been awarded $20M in discretionary grant funding to complete the US-31 relocation project from Napier Road to I-94 in Berrien County. “We’re so excited to announce this project will be completed – finally,” said Upton. “For years, we have been working diligently with local, state, and national leaders to get this done. The Department of Transportation has long-said ‘hang on, help is on the way’ and that day has now come. Completing this project will ensure Southwest Michigan remains a hub for economic competitiveness, jobs, and growth now and into the future.” “The Administration’s continued investment in infrastructure promises to stimulate economic investment, improve quality of life, and create safe, reliable transportation in our communities,” added U.S. Transportation Secretary Elaine L. Chao. The grant comes from the Department of Transportation (DOT) Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) Transportation Discretionary Grants program. This project will provide a free flow freeway traffic movement through the completion of the last two miles of the limited access US-31 freeway from Napier Avenue to I-94 in Berrien County. Upton has long supported completion of the project.
12.01.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after the passing of former President George H.W. Bush: “President George H.W. Bush leaves behind a powerful legacy as a war hero, statesman, and consummate public servant. Above all else, he was a dedicated family man. A husband, father, and grandfather whose faith guided his life in everything he endeavored. “The World War II generation often spoke to the rest of us about the character and standing of our nation. President Bush’s passing certainly reminds us what we desire in our leaders: compassion, honesty, trust, grit, and a duty to try and do the right thing. “I knew President Bush well from my days in the Reagan White House with his office right around the corner. His was among the first congratulatory calls on my first election win, campaigning together in New Hampshire, and traveling on Air Force One and Two. Never a day he let his country down. “He now joins his wife Barbara in eternal peace. Amey and I join with all Americans to celebrate his life and mourn his death.”
11.27.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today applauded passage of S. 140, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018. Included in this package is a provision, authored by Upton, which would exempt the Saugatuck Chain Ferry from the requirement under section 8902 of title 46, United States Code, that the vessel be operated by an individual licensed by the Coast Guard. “Come spring, the historic Saugatuck Chain Ferry will be moving again,” said Upton. “Our bipartisan efforts will exempt the Chain Ferry from being operated by an individual licensed by the Coast Guard. As local leaders have expressed repeatedly, the Chain Ferry is a hand-cranked vessel and the current regulations are woefully outdated. We’re hopeful we can get this modernization effort across the finish line as soon as possible, understanding the importance of the Chain Ferry to the entire Saugatuck community.” “This is welcome news and Saugatuck thanks Congressman Upton for his hard work on this issue,” said Saugatuck City Manager Kirk Harrier. “The safety of our passengers who ride the ferry is of utmost importance to us, but given the unique attributes of the vessel, no specialized machinery, and the measures we have in place, we are confident that we can ensure their safety without undertaking the significant burdens inherent in operating with an individual licensed by the Coast Guard. We’re excited to start back up on Memorial Day.” Upton had previously authored a letter to Congressional leaders to push for this provision.
11.16.2018	Today, Representatives Fred Upton (R-MI) and Debbie Dingell (D-MI) introduced bipartisan legislation to extend financial protections to seniors who receive long-term care in their home or a community setting. Medicaid – the primary payer for long-term care, services, and supports – includes protections to prevent a spouse from depleting all their financial resources due to a significant others’ long-term care needs. In order to maintain Medicaid eligibility, beneficiaries with a family member needing long-term care, services, or supports may be put in a situation where they need to “spend down” their resources, or potentially bankrupt themselves, in order to get the care they need. Under current mandates, spousal impoverishment protections in Medicaid prevent unnecessary financial harm in cases where one spouse needs long-term care in a nursing home or institutional care facility. But protections for care at home or in the community – which tends to be less costly and less disruptive for families – are due to expire in a few weeks at the end of the year. In an effort to erase the institutional bias that has led seniors to choose more costly nursing homes over impoverishment, Dingell and Upton have introduced the Protecting Married Seniors from Impoverishment Act. The legislation permanently extends spousal impoverishment protections for Medicaid beneficiaries receiving long-term care in a home or community care setting. “Our long-term care system is broken,” said Dingell. “Seniors and their families already face too many challenges when navigating long-term care, and they should not have to get divorced or go broke just to be eligible for the care they need. Our bipartisan bill permanently extends spousal impoverishment protections to seniors no matter if they are receiving care in home, in the community, or in a nursing home facility.” “Long-term care for our seniors and their families should be about improving quality of life,” said Upton. “Our bipartisan bill does that. It will help seniors protect their nest eggs and improve home and community-based services here in Michigan and across the country. I’m glad to partner with Rep. Dingell to push this much-needed fix across the finish line.” You can read the text of the Protecting Married Seniors from Impoverishment Act here. The Protecting Married Seniors from Impoverishment Act is supported by the National Council on Aging, National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys, Autistic Self Advocacy Network, Autism Society of America, Community Catalyst, National Association for Home Care & Hospice, Jewish Federations of North America, LeadingAge, National PACE Association, Center for Medicare Advocacy, National Association of Councils on Developmental Disabilities, Center for Public Representation, and Justice in Aging. “Older Americans needing long-term care are more likely to be able to stay out of nursing homes if they are married. Current law makes no sense - federal Medicaid protections for spouses of nursing home residents are permanent, but protections for spouses of those getting home care expire at the end of this year. The National Council on Aging (NCOA) strongly supports legislation introduced by Rep. Dingell to address this bias, keep older couples together, and reduce unnecessary nursing home placement,” said Howard Bedlin, Vice President for Public Policy and Advocacy of the National Council on Aging. “Individuals who require assistance with daily activities should be allowed to age in place and not be forced to go into a nursing home simply to protect their spouse from becoming poor. That’s why we are extremely thankful to Rep. Dingell for introducing a bill to extend the mandate that Medicaid’s spousal impoverishment protections for nursing home care also apply to home and community-based services,” said Michael Amoruso, President of the National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys. “Justice in Aging strongly supports the Protecting Married Seniors from Impoverishment Act because it will give married seniors and people with disabilities a meaningful choice to age in place with their spouse and stay connected to their families and communities, without fear of financial ruin,” said Kevin Prindiville, Executive Director of Justice in Aging.
10.11.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, recently sent a letter to the Acting Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) expressing support of a research proposal being developed by Drs. at Western Michigan University and Michigan State University. “PFAS contamination has been an ongoing problem in my district, gaining national attention with the incident in Parchment, Michigan last July as well as revelations of levels thousands of times the EPA-recommended limit found at the Battle Creek National Guard Base. The research being done at Western Michigan University and Michigan State University is vital to our understanding of plumes of contaminants and how they affect residents around them.” The letter reads in part. To learn more about Upton’s work on this issue please click here. The full letter can be read online here or below: Andrew Wheeler Acting Administrator United States Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20004 Dear Administrator Wheeler: I write to express my support of the proposal “Development of an Integrated Framework for PFAS Plume Characterization, Monitoring and Forensics: Airborne and Conventional Geophysical Methods, Phytosampling, and Transport Modeling” developed by Drs. Dogan and Reeves from Western Michigan University and Dr. Hyndman from Michigan State University. The research outlined in this proposal will be used to develop an integrated methodology to generate data on the distribution of PFAS in vegetation, unsaturated and saturated zones, subsurface geology and heterogeneity, characterization of PFAS source releases, and predictions of PFAS migration. These data are critical for improving our current understanding of PFAS fate and transport and will enhance assessments of PFAS risks to human health. The field locations selected for study are among the highest profile PFAS contaminated sites in Michigan, and this research is intended to alleviate some of the major data and knowledge gaps for these sites. PFAS contamination has been an ongoing problem in my district, gaining national attention with the incident in Parchment, Michigan last July as well as revelations of levels thousands of times the EPA-recommended limit found at the Battle Creek National Guard Base. The research being done at Western Michigan University and Michigan State University is vital to our understanding of understanding of plumes of contaminants and how they affect residents around them. Thank you for your consideration. Please let my office know if you have any questions or concerns. Sincerely, Fred Upton Member of Congress
09.28.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, passed the U.S. House. H.R. 6 is a bipartisan, bicameral agreement and is expected to be signed into law soon. Upton recently held a bipartisan opioids listening session at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker, M.D. School of Medicine. There, he heard from local stakeholders such as Jeff Patton, CEO of Kalamazoo County Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services, Kalamazoo County Sheriff Rick Fuller, and more. “This is a major response to a major problem. As I’ve heard directly from our local leaders, it’s clear we need an effort that goes after those who overprescribe, improves local treatment and prevention efforts, gives our law enforcement better tools to get drugs out of our communities, cracks down on synthetic drugs and fentanyl, helps develop non-addictive pain medications, and more. “This was the result of bipartisan collaboration. I’m pleased to see two specific provisions I helped lead are included. The opioid epidemic knows no bounds, we must continue working together to help those suffering.” H.R. 6 includes two bipartisan provisions authored by Upton: H.R. 5002, the ACE Research Act, co-authored alongside U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Michigan, and H.R. 5800, the Medicaid IMD ADDITIONAL INFO Act. It also includes a provision reauthorizing and improving state targeted response grants from Upton’s 21st Century Cures Act at $500 million per year for two years. H.R.6 follows the passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) and the 21st Century Cures Act last Congress which allocated $32 billion to the State of Michigan, the $4 billion appropriated in the 2018 omnibus package, and the $6.7 billion included in the recent Defense-Labor-HHS appropriations package to boost programs that fight, treat, and stop substance abuse and support access to mental health services. H.R. 6, the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act will help the overall efforts to advance treatment and recovery initiatives, improve prevention, protect our communities, and bolster efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. Here’s specifically how it will help combat the opioid crisis: Treatment and Recovery · Improve and expand access to treatment and recovery services · Provide incentives for enhanced care, coordination, and innovation · Establish comprehensive opioid recovery centers Prevention · Encourage non-addictive opioid alternatives to treat pain · Improve data to identify and help at-risk patients and families · Address high prescribing rates while enhancing prescription drug monitoring programs Protecting communities · Give law enforcement tools to get dangerous drugs out of our communities · Better intercept illicit opioids at international mail facilities · Improve access to federal resources for local communities Fighting fentanyl · Better tackle ever-changing synthetic drugs · Crack down on foreign shipments of illicit drugs · Provide grants for local communities to combat fentanyl Learn more about Upton’s work to combat the opioid crisis HERE.
09.27.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today was awarded the “Guardian of Small Business” Award from the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). Upon receiving the award, Upton commented: “This is a big honor,” said Upton. “Small businesses are leading the way in job-creation, economic growth, and incredible innovations. Here in Southwest Michigan I regularly meet with our local small business owners to hear what’s on their mind. My goal is to always champion bipartisan policies that spur local growth and economic opportunities. That’s when our small businesses thrive.” “The NFIB Guardian of Small Business Award is presented to Members of Congress who truly vote as champions of small business,” said NFIB President and CEO Juanita D. Duggan. “Those who earn this recognition in the House of Representatives have been staunch supporters on the issues that are critical to the success of small business, like tax cuts, regulatory reform, and lower healthcare costs. They are the representatives small business owners can count on as advocates in Washington, and we’re proud to award these lawmakers the recognition they earned for the 115th Congress.”
09.26.2018	Today, Representatives Fred Upton (MI-6), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), and Tim Walberg (MI-7) received commitment from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that the agency will come to Michigan for a meeting on PFAS chemicals in drinking water. The lawmakers will continue to work with the EPA on finalizing a time and location. You can read the EPA’s response here. “Michigan has been hit hard with the number of PFAS confirmed sites growing rapidly over the last few years,” Upton, Dingell, and Walberg said in a joint statement. “We thank the EPA for committing to see first-hand the extent of the growing PFAS contamination problem Michigan is confronting. We will work with the State of Michigan and the EPA to finalize a time and place for this meeting.” Earlier this month, the Environment Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee held a hearing on per- and polyfluoroalkyl substance (PFAS) in which an EPA official committed to sending experts and senior officials to Michigan to discuss PFAS contamination sites. The EPA had originally planned a public meeting in Michigan, but later pulled it from the schedule. Dingell, Upton, and Walberg followed up with the EPA’s commitment in a letter following the hearing.
09.25.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance S. 2554, the Patient Right to Know Drug Prices Act and S. 2553, the Know the Lowest Price Act of 2018. Upton released the following statement: “Today we took bipartisan action to lower drug costs for patients. Folks here in Southwest Michigan should have access to transparent pricing information. In other words, your pharmacist should be able to tell you if there is a cheaper way to get your prescriptions filled. These two bipartisan bills will remove those barriers preventing patients from paying the lowest possible prices for the prescription drugs they need.” The Patient Right to Know Drug Prices Act was sponsored by U.S. Senator Susan Collins, R-Maine, and would prohibit an insurer or pharmacy manager from restricting a pharmacy’s ability to provide drug price information to a plan enrollee when there is a difference between the cost of the drug under the plan and the cost of the drug when purchased without insurance. This bill would apply to plans offered through insurance exchanges and by private employers. The Know the Lowest Price Act was sponsored by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, D-Michigan, and would provide the same protections for individuals covered by Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans.
09.20.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced a new Department of Transportation (DOT) Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program Grant has been awarded to the Central County Transportation Authority in Kalamazoo. The grant is worth $2,808,796.69 and will go towards modernizing the Central County Transportation Authority’s fleet of fixed-route buses which provides nearly 3 million rides annually. In August, Upton wrote a letter to DOT Secretary Elaine Chao expressing “unfettered support” for the project. “This grant will have such a positive impact on people’s daily lives right here in Kalamazoo,” said Upton. “Affordable public transportation is vital for so many students and families and the grant will directly help them and improve this critical community service. This is very welcomed news for Kalamazoo.” “This is great news for Kalamazoo,” said Sean McBride, executive director of the Central County Transportation Authority. “This grant will help grow our public transportation in a very positive way. We want to thank Congressman Upton for his efforts to help us land this grant. We’re very excited.” To learn more about Upton’s record of results for Southwest Michigan please click here.
09.17.2018	U.S. Reps Fred Upton, (MI-6), Debbie Dingell, (MI-12), Tim Walberg, (MI-7), and Dan Kildee, (MI-5), today introduced bipartisan legislation, the PFAS Federal Facility Accountability Act of 2018, that urges federal agencies to cooperate with States as PFAS contamination is detected in communities near federal installations such as active military installations, former military installations, or National Guard facilities. The bill will facilitate testing, monitoring, removal, and remediation when these chemicals are detected in the water and soil. Federal agencies would be required to come up with a plan of action with affected States within one year of a request from the state. “This bipartisan effort will help Michigan continue our rapid response to the PFAS contamination issue. We must increase cooperation between the states and the federal government so that everyone is on the same page. That’s exactly what this bill does. This should not be a partisan issue and we’re are coming together in a bipartisan way to make certain Michigan is leading the way.” said Congressman Upton. “We need an all-hands-on deck response to the growing PFAS contamination in Michigan. PFAS is a man-made chemical, and it will require a man-made solution from all of us working together. This bipartisan legislation will help states such as Michigan respond quickly when contamination is detected,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “Here in Michigan, like many other states, the issues surrounding PFAS contamination in our water and soil pose a serious public health concern. We need a robust response to protect the wellbeing of our citizens, and our bipartisan bill will help increase coordination between federal and state authorities to cleanup and prevent exposure to these contaminants,” said Congressman Walberg. “We cannot underestimate the seriousness of PFAS contamination in Michigan and across the country. I have repeatedly called on the Department of Defense to act more quickly to clean up PFAS contamination at former Wurtsmith Air Force base in my district. Families and veterans deserve to have their government held accountable for the contamination they have caused. I’m proud to introduce this bipartisan bill with my colleagues,” said Congressman Kildee. For a copy of the legislation please click here.
09.13.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance S. 3021 – America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018. Included in this package is H.R. 3387, the Drinking Water System Improvement Act. H.R. 3387 seeks to bring greater investment in the country’s aging drinking water infrastructure. “Safe drinking water for our families is something we should all agree on. And this bipartisan bill delivers for communities, like Parchment, dealing with PFAS contamination issues,” said Upton. “This effort will also proactively modernize our aging drinking water infrastructure. Here in Michigan, we keenly understand the need for safe drinking water. This bill will help ensure safe drinking water for all and I urge the Senate to take up this bipartisan bill without delay.” H.R. 3387 specifically helps communities needing to try treatment for PFAS by increasing authorization to $8 billion over 5 year for Drinking Water State Revolving Funds (DWSRF). It also increase the amount of money that States can use to help with drinking water treatment to promote public health. H.R. 3387 requires all drinking water utilities serving more than 3,300 people to monitor for contaminants that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) does not regulate, but considers threatening enough that the Agency is trying to get a better picture of the contaminants prevalence in drinking water systems. In addition, the legislation requires EPA to find a representative sample of utilities that serve less than 3,300 to also monitor for these contaminants. The bill helps provide offsetting financial support to water systems serving 1 to 10,000 people that are required to do this testing. For contaminants that get into lakes and rivers that serve as a drinking water system’s source, H.R. 3387 reauthorizes source water protection planning activities by States and renews provisions that permit Federal funding to implement voluntary source water protection programs. Learn more about Upton’s work on the PFAS contamination issue here.
09.13.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Administration spending bill. Included in this bill is $14 million to address contamination from per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). Upton released the following statement: “Testing at W.K. Kellogg Air National Guard Base has shown serious PFAS groundwater contamination at several sites. Across Michigan, several former DoD bases fair worse. This is why we worked hard to secure this additional $14 million in federal resources to proactively identify and cleanup these emerging, harmful PFAS contaminants. We will continue working with local, state, and federal leaders and remain ever-vigilant on these issues.” Upton previously had sent a letter to Air National Guard leadership saying it was “Unacceptable and irresponsible” PFAS data hadn’t been released. Learn more about Upton’s work on this issue here.
09.10.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, recently joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in sending a letter to House Speaker Paul D. Ryan and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy urging an immediate, bipartisan reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). Upton supported the original VAWA in 1994 and has voted for every subsequent bipartisan reauthorization since (2000, 2005, and 2013). “Programs authorized and funded under VAWA work to protect girls, boys, men, and women from these terrible crimes. The programs provide funding to ensure safety and support for survivors, increase prevention efforts, expand educational awareness surrounding domestic violence and sexual assault, implement training for health professionals and law enforcement, and to coordinate responses across agencies,” Upton and his colleagues write. “We have all seen the positive impact of these programs in our districts and have met individuals in our communities who have benefited from the protections this law provides. “This is not a partisan issue. VAWA has historically been continually reauthorized on a bipartisan basis in Congress. We must act now to maintain and strengthen this critical law.” Read the full letter online here or below: Dear Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McCarthy: As you know, on September 30th the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) is set to expire, leaving us only 7 legislative days to prevent a lapse in authorization. We therefore urge you to advance a bipartisan reauthorization of VAWA without delay. Since being signed into law in 1994, VAWA has helped to protect and support millions of Americans who have faced domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. This landmark legislation has drastically improved our nation’s response to these crimes and has contributed to the overall declining rates of domestic abuse since its enactment. However, instances of violence are still very common. According to the Centers for Disease Control, in our country, about 1 in 3 women and 1 in 6 men experience some form of contact sexual violence during their lifetime. Programs authorized and funded under VAWA work to protect girls, boys, men, and women from these terrible crimes. The programs provide funding to ensure safety and support for survivors, increase prevention efforts, expand educational awareness surrounding domestic violence and sexual assault, implement training for health professionals and law enforcement, and to coordinate responses across agencies. We have all seen the positive impact of these programs in our districts and have met individuals in our communities who have benefited from the protections this law provides. This is not a partisan issue. VAWA has historically been continually reauthorized on a bipartisan basis in Congress. We must act now to maintain and strengthen this critical law. We urge expeditious reauthorization of VAWA and thank you for your attention to this important issue.
09.07.2018	After the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) committed to holding a meeting in Michigan on PFAS chemicals in drinking water, Representatives Fred Upton (MI-6), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), and Tim Walberg (MI-7) followed up on the commitment and called for details to finalize a time and place. Thursday, the Environment Subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee held a hearing on per- and polyfluoroalkyl substance (PFAS) in which an EPA official committed to sending experts and senior officials to Michigan to discuss PFAS contamination sites. The EPA had originally planned a public meeting in Michigan, but later pulled it from the schedule. “Michigan has been hit hard,” the lawmakers wrote. “The number of PFAS confirmed sites has been growing rapidly over the last few years. According to the State of Michigan, there are now 35 confirmed PFAS contamination sites and the public is seriously concerned. While there is more work to do, the state is aggressively testing, tracking, and working to combat PFAS. The State of Michigan fully supports an EPA visit and is looking forward to hosting. It is invaluable for EPA to see first-hand the extent of the growing PFAS contamination problem we are confronting.” Recently a “Do Not Eat” fish advisory was issued for the Huron River due to elevated PFAS levels. The town of Parchment, MI also recently had a crisis with PFAS in their water supply, and there are major contaminations at several military installations in Michigan as well. PFAS chemicals are man-made and linked to certain cancers and serious health problems. Learn more about Upton’s work on this issue here. You can read a copy of the lawmakers letter to the EPA here or below: Dear Acting Administrator Wheeler: As members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, we thank the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for testifying before the committee on the growing presence of perfluorinated chemicals across the nation. This letter is to follow up on the commitment made by EPA yesterday to send senior officials to Michigan to discuss per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). We welcome EPA to Michigan and look forward to this important visit as soon as possible. Michigan has been hit hard. The number of PFAS confirmed sites has been growing rapidly over the last few years. According to the State of Michigan, there are now 35 confirmed PFAS contamination sites and the public is seriously concerned. While there is more work to do, the state is aggressively testing, tracking, and working to combat PFAS. The State of Michigan fully supports an EPA visit and is looking forward to hosting. It is invaluable for EPA to see first-hand the extent of the growing PFAS contamination problem we are confronting. As you know, EPA originally planned to visit Michigan as part of its national tour to engage communities affected by harmful PFAS and to find ways for EPA to best support ongoing work occurring at the state, local, and tribal levels. We are pleased by the commitment made by EPA at yesterday’s hearing and hope the visit can happen very soon. In the coming days, we look forward to working with EPA, the State of Michigan, and all elected officials from the Michigan delegation to finalize logistics for your visit.
09.06.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today directly questioned witnesses at a bipartisan hearing titled “Perflourinated Chemicals in the Environment: An Update on the Response to Contamination and Challenges Presented.” Click HERE to watch Upton’s opening statement. Click HERE to watch Upton question Dr. Peter Grevatt, Director of the Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water at the U.S. Department of Environmental Protection Agency and Ms. Maureen Sullivan, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Environment at the U.S. Department of Defense. Click HERE to watch Upton question Ms. Carol Isaacs, Director of the Michigan PFAS Action Response Team. For more information on Upton’s work on this issue please click HERE.
09.04.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Violence Against Women awarded a grant worth $298,698 to Kalamazoo College to reduce domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking on campus. Kalamazoo College, in partnership with the Kalamazoo YWCA and the Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety will implement this campus violence against women project. “This local grant will help keep students safe on campus right here in Kalamazoo,” said Upton. “Specifically, this grant will expand existing prevention education programs, provide more training opportunities for school staff, and allow better coordination with the qualified, local leaders at the Kalamazoo YWCA. We all must work together to prevent domestic and dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking on college campuses. This grant will greatly help in that effort here locally.” The grant is authorized through the Reduce Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, and Stalking on Campus Program (Campus Program). The program provides a unique opportunity for institutions of higher education to establish multi-disciplinary approaches to combat sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking on campuses. Funding from this new award will be used to: 1.) create a Campus Coordinated Community Response Team (CCRT); 2.) expand the existing mandatory prevention and education program for all incoming students; 3.) provide training to all Campus Safety Officers three times per years; 4.) provide in-depth training with regular follow-up trainings to all members of the campus disciplinary and appeal boards; 5.) supplement existing ongoing prevention programming through additional workshops, guest speakers, and peer education outreach; 6.) create programs and materials specifically focused on culturally specific and underserved student populations; 7.) augment victim services and advocacy through joint position with the YWCA of Kalamazoo; 8.) hire a full-time Project Coordinator to oversee the implementation of grant-funded activities. Upton has previously championed bipartisan legislation that would protect sexual assault survivors. To learn more about Upton’s record of results for Southwest Michigan please click here.
08.31.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced a new investment in Van Buren County totaling $41,000: “This new rural development investment will help Van Buren County thrive and grow. By bringing local leaders together on a county-wide economic development plan, we can chart the course for a brighter, more prosperous future. I’m particularly pleased the grant will focus on improving Internet connectivity, something I’ve discussed at length with folks – our farmers in particular – across Southwest Michigan.” The USDA Rural Development investment will be used to fund a comprehensive county-wide economic development plan for Van Buren County. The plan will focus on three critical areas: Transportation, Workforce Housing, and Internet Connectivity. All of these areas are critical to the economic growth and future planning of Van Buren County. This plan will allow government officials to focus on areas of documented need going forward which will create a better place to live and work in Van Buren County. To learn more please click here. To learn more about Upton’s record of results for Southwest Michigan please click here.
08.30.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after the Subcommittee on Environment announced a bipartisan hearing on PFAS water contamination: “We need to learn what, exactly, happened here in Michigan so that we can prevent it from happening again. This bipartisan hearing will be a positive step in that direction. “We’re also working on bipartisan legislation that would require the Environmental Protection Agency to publish drinking water regulations for PFAS nationwide. We must continue to hold the EPA accountable. “The response to the PFAS problem in Parchment is a textbook example of how such situations should be handled. I want to again praise the State of Michigan for their rapid, on-the-ground response and our local community leaders for their immediate action and thank the dedicated volunteers on the ground who stood up when called upon to help their friends and neighbors.” Learn more about Upton’s work on this issue here. Learn more about the bipartisan legislation Upton is leading alongside Rep. Dan Kildee, D-Flint, please click here.
08.30.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today reacted to the news that tariffs on Canadian imports of uncoated ground wood paper had been reversed by a unanimous 5 to 0 vote by the U.S. International Trade Commission. “These misguided tariffs were harmful to local journalism – the lifeblood of our communities,” said Upton. “They were already significantly raising costs for local newspapers, threatening jobs and the delivery of the news. We worked hard to remove them and must remain vigilant they don’t return. The reversal marks a victory for local journalism everywhere.” Upton had previously joined a bipartisan letter to the U.S. Department of Commerce and U.S. International Trade Commission urging the reversal of the tariffs. Upton was a co-sponsor of H.R. 6031, the Protecting Rational Incentives in Newsprint Trade (PRINT) Act of 2018. Upton also met with members of the Michigan Press Association in St. Joseph to hear their concerns about the tariffs directly.
08.29.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the White House Drug Policy Office awarded two Fiscal Year 2018 Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program grant notifications in Southwest Michigan: “These two grants will make a direct impact to help prevent substance abuse among Southwest Michigan kids and teens, particularly when it comes to addictive opioids. Our work to combat the opioid crisis has many facets including going after those who overprescribe, working with our local law enforcement, treatment, and prevention. Prevention is a particularly powerful tool in our toolbox as we work together to help kids in our communities make better decisions. The grants are great news but more work remains.” The Allegan County Substance Abuse Prevention Coalition was awarded a grant totaling $125,000 which will go to the Allegan County Community Mental Health Services. The Kalamazoo County Substance Abuse Task Force was awarded a grant totaling $125,000 which will go to Prevention Works, Inc. In March, Upton hosted an Opioid Listening Session in Kalamazoo at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine that included representatives from Prevention Works, Inc. To learn more about Upton’s work to combat the opioid abuse epidemic please click here. The DFC Support Program, created by the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997, is the Nation’s leading effort to mobilize communities to prevent youth substance use. DFC-funded coalitions engage multiple sectors of the community and employ a variety of environmental strategies to address local drug problems. Coalitions are comprised of community leaders, parents, youth, teachers, religious and fraternal organizations, health care and business professionals, law enforcement, and media.
08.25.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the passing of John McCain: “John McCain was an American hero, a statesman, and – above all else – a personal friend. “We traveled the country back and forth, and again in 2008. His boundless energy still exposed his torturous, haunting past but his ability to forgive even his captors showed his resilient faith and strength. “He was a bipartisan legislative leader that never stopped to smell the roses as there was always a new legislative challenge to tackle next. Campaign finance, our veterans and servicemen and women, health research, and 21st Century Cures were just some of the issues in his wheelhouse. “He worked and played hard all his days and I felt privileged to share some of those times. He left no regrets other than the knowledge his absence would require those that admired him to step up and carry on. He served his country in so many ways and inspired folks in every walk of life. “His dignity, integrity, and sense of duty is what all public servants should seek to emulate. “Amey and I are sending our prayers to the entire McCain family.”
08.23.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced a new Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) for Portage, Michigan. The grant, allocated from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, is worth $237,119 and is to be used for housing assistance programs, homebuyer down payment assistance programs, neighborhood improvements, human/public services, and administration. “This community development block grant will improve lives right here in Portage,” said Upton. “Affordable housing is critical for families looking to put down roots in our region. Working directly with our local leaders we were able to secure this grant funding. We’re all looking forward to seeing the grant in action and the positive impact it will have on community pride.” “The City of Portage so appreciates the efforts Congressman Upton has made, and continues to make, to support low-income folks in our community,” added Portage City Manager Laurence Shaffer. The CDBG program is a flexible program that provides communities with resources to address a wide range of community development needs including affordable housing, services for the most vulnerable, and creating jobs. To learn more about the CDBG program please click here. For more information on Upton’s record of results for Southwest Michigan please click here.
08.15.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced that the Allegan Conservation District has been awarded an $180,000 Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) grant by the Great Lakes Commission (GLC). The Allegan Conservation District Project will encourage the implementation of best management practices to reduce sedimentation in the Gun River Watershed through a performance-based incentive program. “This is a significant recognition of the Allegan Conservation District’s work to protect the health of our Great Lakes, waterways, and communities,” said Upton. “This grant will have an immediate, positive impact. It also highlights the need to continue funding the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative now and into the future. We must continue working together to protect our Great Lakes so that all may enjoy their brilliance and beauty.” “Working with local partners to implement these conservation practices is critical to protecting water quality in the Great Lakes region,” said John Linc Stine, chair of the GLC and commissioner of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. “This program enables communities to take specific, measured steps toward reducing the sediment and nutrient runoff affecting their local watersheds.” Every year, tons of polluting phosphorus and sediments enter the Great Lakes Basin, causing massive economic and environmental losses and contributing to the formation of Harmful Algal Blooms and dead zones. The GLC manages the Great Lakes Sediment and Nutrient Reduction Program which strategically addresses this problem with a unique, targeted, grassroots approach which awards grants to non-federal agencies and non-profit organizations in priority watersheds throughout the region. Funding for this program is provided by the GLRI under a cooperative agreement between the GLC and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Natural Resources Conservation Services. Upton has consistently fought for full funding for the GLRI, despite administration attempts to cut the program. To learn more about his work on Great Lakes issues, please click here.
08.13.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced two new investments in the Village of Baroda and Van Buren County totaling $136,000: “These new rural development investments will have a positive impact on Southwest Michigan. They will directly help boost our local economy and create local jobs. We’re excited to see these projects and investments move forward for the betterment of all in our communities.” The first USDA Rural Development grant is for $95,000 for the Village of Baroda in Berrien County. The investment will be used to construct a road through an industrial park. The project is anticipated to create and/or save at least 20 jobs. To learn more click here. The second USDA Rural Development grant is for $41,000 for Van Buren County. The investment will be used to complete a comprehensive County-wide Economic Development Plan. To learn more click here.
08.01.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today sent a letter to General Joseph Lengyel, Chief of the National Guard Bureau and Lieutenant General L. Scott Rice, Director of the Air National Guard, urging the swift release of data related to PFAS contamination testing at the W.K. Kellogg Air National Guard Base in Battle Creek, Michigan, as well as any plans to remediate possible contamination. PFAS testing data collected on the base between April and May of this year was not shared at a public meeting on July 30. Key excerpt: It is utterly unacceptable and irresponsible that any information on PFAS levels would be withheld from individuals who are possibly affected. To learn more about Upton’s work to respond to the PFAS issue, please click here. The full letter can be found here or below: Dear General Lengyel and Lieutenant General Rice, I write to urge the swift release of data related to per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) contamination testing at the W.K. Kellogg Air National Guard Base in Battle Creek, Michigan, as well as any plans to remediate possible contamination. It is utterly unacceptable and irresponsible that any information on PFAS levels could be withheld from individuals who are possibly affected. I understand the testing data, which was collected close to three months ago, is currently under review at the National Guard Bureau in Washington, D.C. With PFAS exposure linked to certain cancers as well as other serious health problems, it is critical that on-base testing results are expeditiously shared with state officials working on PFAS testing and remediation as well as local residents that might be impacted. This information was not made available at a public meeting on July 30. As you know, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) is in the process of testing PFAS contamination in drinking water wells surrounding the base. The agency recently released a round of testing, which found two private wells testing well-above the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) health advisory, and state standard, of 70 parts per trillion (ppt). Additionally, in June, MDEQ received results of split samples from on-base monitoring wells that had levels as high as 21,000 ppt PFOA and 55,500 ppt PFOS, two types of PFAS. With tests showing on-base and off-base PFAS levels this high, the National Guard should move swiftly to share critical on-base contamination data that may be impacting off-base communities. Furthermore, every effort should be made to quickly implement necessary remediation plans to protect the health of service members, their families, and area residents. The Battle Creek and Kalamazoo communities have a long and successful partnership with the Air National Guard at Battle Creek, proudly hosting the guard’s critical national security mission. With this partnership in mind, I ask the National Guard leadership to make every effort to expedite the release of on-base PFAS testing data as well as any plan for contamination remediation. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Fred Upton Member of Congress
07.31.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and U.S. Rep. Dan Kildee, D-Flint, today released the following joint statement: “PFAS chemical contamination is impacting drinking water in communities throughout Michigan. Local, state, and federal leaders must work in a bipartisan fashion to ensure the basic necessity of safe drinking water. We will continue to hold the EPA accountable so that folks in Michigan are getting help and the answers they deserve. Michigan is leading the nation by testing every municipal water source. The EPA must get on board to help Michigan and all states deal with this issue. “In order to protect families across the country, we must set a national drinking water standard for PFAS. The EPA has failed to act with the proper urgency to set a standard and therefore we support bipartisan legislative action that would require them to do so.” “Every Michigan family deserves safe and clean drinking water. No exceptions.” Background: Kildee has co-sponsored legislation, which Upton plans to co-sponsor once the U.S. House returns to legislative session, which would require the EPA to publish a maximum containment level goal and promulgate drinking water regulations for PFAS. Learn more here. Earlier this month, Upton and Kildee led a bipartisan letter to EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler pushing the agency to strengthen drinking water safeguards for PFAS. Upton and Kildee have previously led a bipartisan letter urging full funding for a nationwide Centers for Disease Control (CDC) study on the health impacts of PFAS in drinking water in the Fiscal Year 2018 Defense Appropriations Bill. The final bill contained $10 million for the study with more than $60 million appropriated for research and remediation. The study is critical to better understanding the long-term health implications of PFAS exposure through water sources. Upton and Kildee have also previously spearheaded bipartisan legislation, in response to the Flint Water Crisis, which strengthened requirements to have the EPA step in to notify the public when drinking water was discovered to not be safe. The legislation was signed into law by President Obama in 2016.
07.30.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement upon hearing the news that Cass County Treasurer Linda Pruett has passed away: “This is a truly tragic loss. Linda was a no-nonsense public servant who always had her constituent’s concerns number one. She ran a tight ship and was respected in so many ways by all who encountered her. We will greatly miss her sense of humor and dedication to our community. Amey and I are including her family in our prayers.”
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined members of the House Problem Solvers Caucus in introducing a package of changes to the House Rules to make Congress work better for the American people. The proposed rule changes reward transparency, encourage a willingness to reach across the aisle, create debate on divisive issues, and empower lawmakers to find real solutions concerning our nation’s most pressing matters. “It’s time to make Washington more accountable to the American people. With this new bipartisan package in place, we can finally do what we’ve been sent to Washington to do: Fix problems. Whether it’s reforming our broken immigration system, finding common-ground on gun and school safety laws, fixing the health care mess, and more,” said Upton. “As chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I changed the rules to encourage more bipartisanship. It worked. We passed 354 measures through the House and saw 202 signed into law. Almost all were bipartisan. It’s time for the People’s House to implement some of these same changes so we can break the gridlock and deliver real results for folks at home. We welcome all who want to join us in that effort.” Click HERE for video of Upton speaking at today’s press conference announcing the “Break the Gridlock” package. Click HERE for video of Upton interviewed about why “Break the Gridlock” is important to Michigan. “We care about reforming the institution, so that Congress is actually able to get things done for the people back home,” added Caucus Co-Chair U.S. Rep. Tom Reed, R-New York. “Due to the House Floor being controlled by a select few, most Members of Congress are not able to bring their ideas and proposals to the House Floor for a fair vote that would allow us to begin solving some of the most contentious issues facing our country today.” “We’ve seen time and again how our common-sense solutions get jammed up in a system built to empower the voices of a few extremists. Instead of letting obstructionists create roadblocks to bipartisan consensus, the American people deserve action on everything from infrastructure to immigration. These changes will pave the way to the House Floor for bipartisan solutions and break the gridlock,” added Caucus Co-Chair Josh Gottheimer, D-New Jersey. Background: For nearly two years, the Members of the Problem Solvers Caucus have worked together to find bipartisan agreement on the toughest issues facing Congress: they proposed a health care compromise to stabilize the individual insurance marketplace, an agreement on our nation’s DREAMERs and border security, support for gun and school safety legislation, and recommendations for a bipartisan infrastructure package. However, their progress and bipartisan cooperation as a whole have been stifled because of House Rules that enable a few Members to hold most of the power. To make the House work again for the American People, the Problem Solvers Caucus is proposing the “Break the Gridlock” draft proposal, which will be used to help build consensus around rule changes ahead of January. The full list of goals and proposals can be found HERE.
07.25.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today applauded the passage of the Senate Amendment to H.R. 2353, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. The bill now heads to the president’s desk for approval. “This bipartisan bill is all about preparing Southwest Michigan students for the workforce and good-paying jobs,” said Upton. “Local career and technical education, or CTE, programs help high school and community college students obtain hands-on experience necessary to succeed in careers in a broad range of industries. This bipartisan effort will make updates to CTE training to give workers and students the skills they need to find high-wage jobs here in Michigan. I’m glad we were able to put partisan differences aside and come together for this common-sense compromise. I urge the president to sign this into law as soon as he is able.” Upton had previously voted for this reauthorization in June of 2017. The U.S. Senate then made adjustments and passed their version on July 23.
07.24.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after Pfizer announced a major expansion in Kalamazoo County that is to include the creation of hundreds of good-paying jobs and nearly $500 million in new investments: “This is huge news for our community. Having met directly with Pfizer leadership and other local folks about this a year ago, today truly is a great day. We’re all very excited to see this community partnership prosper. “As CEO Ian Read said himself, this overall effort would not have happened without tax reform. Lowering the rates has directly led to increased investments here in Southwest Michigan. Medical innovation is also on the rise thanks in part to 21st Century Cures. As a result, we’re seeing growth and good-paying jobs returning to Michigan. “We must continue working together to ensure Southwest Michigan remains a premier place to attract this sort of manufacturing, innovation, and jobs.” Upton had previously discussed this expansion directly with Pfizer leadership in June of 2017. Learn more about tax reform here. Learn more about Upton’s 21st Century Cures Act here.
07.24.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance H.R. 184, the Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2018. This bipartisan legislation repeals the Medical Device Tax and was passed by a 283 to 132 vote. “Protecting Michigan jobs is a top priority of mine and getting rid of the medical device tax once and for all is critical to Southwest Michigan’s med-tech industry,” said Upton. “As I’ve heard directly, the medical device tax has cost our region jobs, investment, and medical innovation opportunities. This bipartisan bill repeals the medical device tax, yielding immediate benefits to Southwest Michigan. I look forward to our continued work to make Southwest Michigan a great place for medical innovation and jobs.” Upton visited Stryker earlier this month to see their innovative medical devices and speak with employees.
07.19.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance H.R. 6147, the Department of Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2019. This bill includes full funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). Upton released the following statement: “This is more great news for our Great Lakes. This legislation fully funds the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative – a critical program that helps us strengthen and preserve our Great Lakes environment. It also helps keep our Southwest Michigan economy strong. I was glad to vote for this needed funding and will continue fighting for our Great Lakes. Always.” To learn more about Upton’s record on the Great Lakes please click here.
07.17.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and U.S. Rep. Dan Kildee, D-Flint, today sent a letter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler pushing the agency to strengthen drinking water safeguards for per- and polyfluoroalkyl chemicals (PFAS). The bipartisan call from lawmakers comes after the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry released a report showing PFAS chemicals, increasingly being found in drinking water across the nation, are more dangerous to humans than previously acknowledged by the EPA. The letter asks the EPA to update the safe level of exposure for two types of PFAS, PFOS and PFOA, and asks the EPA to create a recommended level for two other types of PFAS, PFHxS and PFNA. Currently, the public health advisory level for PFOS and PFOA is 70 parts per trillion, while there is no public health advisory level for PFHxS and PFNA. “In light of the potential serious health issues that could result from exposure to PFOS and PFOA…we urge the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to review the final toxicological profile and, as appropriate, act immediately to adjust the health advisory levels for PFOS and PFOA,” the letter reads in part. The letter was also signed by Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Congressman Jack Bergman (MI-01), Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08) and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14). Below is the full text of the letter. Acting Administrator Wheeler: We write to you about drinking water contamination from per- and polyfluorinated chemicals (PFAS) and the existing health advisory levels for PFOA and PFOS. We are glad that after what seemed like a long delay, on June 20, 2018, a draft Toxicological Profile for PFAS written by the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) was released to obtain public comment on its contents. Now that it has been released, we have heard suggestions that this draft study shows the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) current health advisory levels for PFOA and PFOS in drinking water - set at 70 parts per trillion (ppt) - could be 7 to ten times higher than what ATSDR has preliminarily identified as the minimal risk level (MRL) for these chemicals. According to the draft Toxicological Profile, exposure to PFOS and PFOA above the MRL might be associated with: pregnancy-induced hypertension/pre-eclampsia, liver damage, increases in total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol, increased risk of thyroid disease, decreased antibody response to vaccines, increased risk of decreased fertility; and decreases in birth weight. In light of the potential serious health issues that could result from exposure to PFOS and PFOA above this draft MRL, we urge the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to review the final toxicological profile and, as appropriate, act immediately to adjust the health advisory levels for PFOS and PFOA. In addition, the draft Toxicological Profile identified PFHxS and PFNA, additional types of PFAS, that are also potentially associated with health issues. Currently, there is no health advisory level for these chemicals. If warranted, the EPA should move to create health advisories for these additional chemicals. We urge you to work with ATSDR as you develop toxicity values, analytical methods, and treatment options on PFAS for states, tribes, local governments, and health professionals. While critical scientific inputs on PFAS are missing, the information that is currently out there is raising many public questions. The EPA should move quickly to make appropriate changes to the existing drinking water health advisories that effectively communicate and explain risks to the public, as well as provide tools for adequate protection from exposure to these chemicals. Sincerely, Daniel T. Kildee Fred Upton Brendan Boyle Jack Bergman Debbie Dingell Brian Fitzpatrick Brenda L. Lawrence
07.17.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-Michigan, and U.S. Rep. Jan Schakowsky, D-Illinois, tonight released the following statements after news that Ibrahim Parlak’s application for deferral of removal under the Convention Against Torture has been granted: “Justice has prevailed,” said Upton. “This has been a full team effort for more than a decade. We’ve always supported Ibrahim because we know who he truly is: A fantastic father, local business owner, and friend to many families here in Southwest Michigan. Truly, a model immigrant. Ibrahim, his family, friends, and supporters can begin to rest easy as we’re hopefully turning the page on this chapter for good and finally done wasting taxpayer dollars. We stand ready to assist in anyway needed moving forward.” “Ibrahim Parlak is a beloved member of the southwest Michigan community,” said Schakowsky. “For decades, this good man has welcomed guests to his popular restaurant, hired many local people, raised a wonderful daughter, and been surrounded by loving friends. For the same period, Mr. Parlak has been living under the threat of deportation to a country in which he was once the victim of torture and where he would have been killed if forced to return. Today, a Judge ruled that Ibrahim Parlak will not be deported. All the people who have worked for years to support him are celebrating this decision and Ibrahim is rejoining in the America that has been his home for so long. I join with my colleague Fred Upton in continuing to offer a hand of friendship to Ibrahim and his family.” To learn more please click here.
07.16.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today issued the following statement: “Russia is not our ally. As I’ve said all along – I trust our intelligence community’s assessment about Russian meddling in our election and fully support the independent Mueller investigation. My position has not changed. “We must continue following the facts wherever they lead. We must continue holding Russia accountable for their destabilizing actions.” In July of 2017, Upton voted in favor of expanded economic sanctions on Russia in retaliation for their cyber-attacks on U.S. institutions.
07.12.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee in voting to advance more than one dozen bills. These bills now head to the House Floor for consideration. Among the bills considered was H.R. 1320, the Nuclear Utilization of Keynote Energy Act. Within this bill was an amendment offered by Upton and U.S. Rep. Peter Welch, D-Vermont, that would help communities dealing with the closure of nuclear power plants. Upton released the following statement upon the amendment’s adoption: “We are dealing with this issue right here in Southwest Michigan with the planned closure of Palisades Nuclear Power Plant. “Recent closures of nuclear plants impact local communities in many ways including a reduced tax base and loss of jobs. As more nuclear facilities reach the end of their licensed period of operations, these effects will be felt throughout the country. “This straightforward, bipartisan amendment simply requires the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to submit to Congress a report identifying best practices for local communities to develop and operate local community advisory boards to deal with closures. I was proud to offer this amendment and hope to see the entire legislation considered on the House Floor soon.” The Committee also advanced H.R. 5385, the Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018, which was recently co-sponsored by Upton. For more information please click here.
07.03.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced that he had recently co-sponsored three important, bipartisan pieces of legislation. Upton has co-sponsored H.R. 6183, the Family Reunification Act. This bipartisan legislation would require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), in conjunction with the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Department of Justice (DOJ), to use all means necessary to ensure children separated from families at the border are reunited. Upton released the following statement: “This is a common-sense, bipartisan solution to this heartbreaking problem. The bill would simply ensure the federal government reunites separated children with their families as fast as possible. While we continue work on fixing our overall broken immigration system, it’s important we don’t forget about these kids. They cannot slip through the cracks. They must be reunited with their families.” Upton has co-sponsored H.R. 5385, the Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018. This bipartisan legislation would reauthorize the Children’s Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program for five years. Upton released the following statement: “This policy has always been a priority for me as it truly is the pediatric training engine for Michigan and the country. It’s critical to providing care and will help train countless pediatric specialists to better care for children here in Southwest Michigan and across the country.” Upton has co-sponsored H.R. 6014, To reauthorize the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act. This bipartisan legislation would provide the primary source of federal funding to support emergency shelter and related assistance for victims of domestic violence and their families. Upton released the following statement: “Too many Americans suffer from domestic violence but this bipartisan effort will help those in need by providing community-driven solutions and a network of programs dedicated to responding to domestic violence.” To learn more about Upton’s record of results please click here.
07.02.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today led a letter to officials at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) inquiring about, and advocating for, innovative solutions to ensure swift reunifications for families separated at the U.S.-Mexico border. The letter was signed by Upton, U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess, R-Texas, and U.S. Rep. Susan Brooks, R-Indiana. Read the full letter online here or below: Dear Mr. Wagner and Mr. Lloyd: We are writing today regarding the Office of Refugee Resettlement’s (ORR) role in the swift reunification of children and parents separated at the U.S.-Mexico border. As you know, President Trump recently put an end to the practice of family separation with an executive order. We welcome the president’s action. While we fully support securing our southern border, there is broad bipartisan agreement that policies allowing children to be separated from parents charged with illegal entry are not consistent with our nation’s values or humanitarian responsibilities. With an end to this practice, our attention must now turn to the swift reunification of children and parents separated over the last several months. According to reports, some of these children transferred to organizations in Michigan, Texas, and across the country are as young as eight-months-old. It is imperative that these children be reunited with their parents as quickly as possible. At the same time, we recognize the challenges ORR may face in accurately but swiftly determining the biological relationships of separated children and adults. Given the urgency and challenges of the situation, we are seeking clarification on ORR’s process for verifying the relationship between children and adults separated at the border and whether the agency is utilizing, or plans to utilize, DNA analyzing technology. This technology is readily available, provides for rapid and accurate testing, and is already used by the Department of Homeland Security to confirm biological relationships of refugee applicants. As you may have seen, several leading biotechnology companies have offered to donate significant resources to support efforts to reunite children and parents. This “Rapid DNA” technology provides fast sample processing that delivers a result in 90 minutes and requires only minutes of hands-on prep time. The results can be forwarded directly to an authorized party, with samples destroyed after processing to ensure privacy protections. Considering these advantages and the challenges the department faces in accurately determining parentage relationships, we urge HHS and ORR to consider the use of rapid DNA analyzing technology to expedite the accurate reunification of parents and children and request responses to the following questions: What is ORR’s process for verifying parentage relationships between children and adults separated at the U.S.-Mexico border? On average, how long does it take to verify parentage? On average, how long does it take to reunite separated children and parents? Has ORR considered the use of DNA analyzing technology to quickly and accurately verify the relationship between children and parents? If not, why not? In the agency’s understanding, do any statutory or other barriers exist, such as privacy and security requirements, to implementing such a program? If so, what are they? As Congress continues to work fix our broken immigration system, we must not lose sight of the immediate need to reunite separated families as quickly as possible. We thank you for your attention to our request and look forward to your prompt response. There must be no delay in reuniting families. Sincerely,
06.27.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today met with Portage Central High School Sophomore Ranya Liu, winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District. Ranya’s winning piece, a Chinese watercolor on rice paper titled “Butterfly and Flower,” will now hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year. “It was fantastic to finally meet Ranya today. The arts have always had a pivotal role to play in our vibrant and diverse communities across Southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “Especially for high school students wishing to express themselves. I’m proud of Ranya’s creativity, passion, and hard work. I know she has a great future ahead of her.” As the 2018 Congressional Art Competition winner, Ranya and her mother flew out to Washington, D.C. on two complimentary tickets from Southwest Airlines. They also took part in a reception honoring winners from across the country. To see Ranya’s winning piece of art please click here. To learn more about the Congressional Art Competition please click here.
06.22.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance H.R. 6, the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act. This bipartisan bill will help in the overall efforts to combat the opioid crisis by advancing treatment and recovery initiatives, improving prevention, protecting our communities, and bolstering efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. “This bipartisan effort will help boost treatment and recovery, prevention, and law enforcement efforts right here in Southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “It will also help us better tackle synthetic opioids, such as fentanyl. This is an important bill that will help stem the tide of addiction. We all know families and communities suffering from the pain of this unceasing epidemic. We’re working to do all we can to combat the opioid crisis and save lives. Our bipartisan efforts continue.” The SUPPORT Act is to be the underlying vehicle for the majority of the House-passed bills to combat the opioid crisis as it moves to the Senate. Included are two Upton bills: H.R. 5002, the ACE Research Act, co-authored alongside U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Michigan, and H.R. 5800, the Medicaid IMD ADDITIONAL INFO Act. The SUPPORT Act follows two bills passed last Congress, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act and the 21st Century Cures Act, as well as the $4 billion appropriated in the omnibus earlier this year to help combat this crisis. For a one pager on the SUPPORT Act please click here. For more information on Upton’s work to combat the opioid epidemic please click here.
06.21.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined 40 colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in sending a letter to U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, and U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristjen Nielson to demand answers about the safety and security of families with children immigrating to the United States. Upton also released the following statement: “Having recently met with folks from Bethany Christian Services, the Hispanic American Council, and other groups, it’s clear the safety and well-being of these children shouldn’t be a political hot potato. “We must continue working to re-unite separated children with their families and reform our broken immigration system once and for all. We expect these timely questions to be answered in a prompt and thorough manner.” You can read the full letter online here, or below: Dear Attorney General Sessions, Secretary Nielsen, and Secretary Azar: We are writing today regarding our concern about the safety and the security of families with children immigrating to the United States. We support the defense of our nation’s borders and all who work to keep us safe. We are encouraged by President Trump’s recent executive order to end the practice of family separation. Policies allowing children to be separated from their parents are in direct conflict with America’s humanitarian responsibility and our nation’s history of protecting those seeking safety. We can enforce our laws and do so in a humane manner to respect families from any nation. We are seeking clarification on the guidance used to carry out your duties encountering and processing immigrants crossing the U.S. border. While there may be rare instances which justify federal enforcement to separate a parent from their child, we seek clarification on how those determinations are made, and any additional statutory reforms that Congress must provide to ensure no family is needlessly separated. While efforts are underway in Congress to reform our immigration laws to prevent the separation of families, together with the President’s executive order directing the care and unity of families encountered at the border, we seek to better understand, and help others to understand, the responsibilities and process involved with your respective agencies. Specifically we request responses to the following questions: 1. How many children have been separated from their parents while crossing the U.S. border in the past five years, each year, crossing both; a. illegally to gain entrance and, b. in seeking asylum at legal ports of entry? 2. When encountering a family unit (at least one parent traveling with a child) how are your agencies processing those encounters under the following circumstances: a. At a legal U.S. port of entry? b. If apprehended crossing the border at locations other than ports of entry? 3. What agency guidance or statute has been used to justify separations for illegal entry and for those seeking asylum? 4. If a parent is separated from their child for any period of time, either during processing or in temporary detention: a. What procedures are followed to ensure parents are made aware of the welfare of a child in HHS custody? b. What procedures are followed to assist and expedite family reunification following any separation period? c. How are your respective agencies coordinating your responsibilities between DOJ, DHS, and HHS to ensure the timely and safe reunification of families? 5. What specific training is offered to DOJ, DHS and HHS personnel to ensure the well-being for children is prioritized and maintained throughout any processing or separation period? 6. Given the increase of concern over family separation, what actions are your agencies taking to ensure there is no confusion among personnel processing families crossing our border? 7. Do your respective agencies require additional statutory authority to ensure no family is separated needlessly when entering the country? 8. Given President Trump’s executive order in response to family separation, please provide information on how that executive order; a. Will be interpreted by your agencies? b. How does this order change your current procedures? c. How will your agencies implement this policy change to ensure no family is needlessly separated and to help reunite those currently separated? We believe there is nothing more important than family, and especially in protecting the well-being of children. We look forward to your prompt and complete response. As Congress continues to work for permanent reform, it is critical we have an understanding of how your agencies implement President Trump’s executive order, and enforce the laws of our nation.
06.20.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after President Trump signed an Executive Order ending the family separation practice: “Thank goodness this ugly practice is ending. As it should. Now we must re-double our efforts to fix a broken immigration system.” On Monday, Upton publicly called for an end to “ugly and inhumane” family separations at the U.S./Mexico border and earlier today he urged the president to “stop the madness.”
06.18.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement in regards to family separations at the United States/Mexico border: “It’s time for this ugly and inhumane practice to end. Now. “It’s never acceptable to use kids as bargaining chips in political process. For some time, I’ve said that separating young, innocent children from their parents is the wrong approach. The right approach is legislation to address the root issues. “This week, the House should vote on a bill that would keep families together, give long-term stability to Dreamers, and improve our border security. “Enough finger pointing. Time for action and solutions.” Upton had previously signed onto a “discharge petition” that would have allowed for fair and full debate on different immigration proposals to address these issues. As a result, the U.S. House of Representatives are planning to vote on two immigration reform bills this week.
06.15.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today made the following statement after the Department of Justice (DOJ) announced the release of guidance for the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) STOP School Violence Grants to help with threat assessments, technology reporting, and mental health training programs: “Nothing is more important than the safety of our children when they go to school. Having met directly with students, parents, teachers, administrators, and law enforcement folks in every corner of Southwest Michigan, we know that they are supportive of this commitment to enhance safety and prevent violence. These grants will help make our schools safer and provide needed resources that will help prevent violence before it happens. “I urge our state and local governments in consultation with our local schools to take a close look at the application process and see if these grants would be right for their communities.” Grant applications will remain open until July 23rd and can be found here: BJA STOP School Violence Threat Assessment and Technology Reporting Program FY 2018 Competitive Grant and BJA STOP School Violence Prevention and Mental Health Training Program FY 2018 Competitive Grant. These grants were available as part of the STOP School Violence Act, which Upton supported in March and was signed into law as part of the omnibus. Then, in May, Upton signed a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions asking he work quickly to release guidance for the school safety grant programs funded in Fiscal Year 2018.
06.14.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5788, the Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevent (STOP) Act, by a 353 to 52 vote: “Every day, powerful synthetic opioids, like fentanyl, are ordered online and then shipped from countries like China into the United States. This common-sense, bipartisan legislation will close loopholes in the mail system currently being exploited by drug traffickers. As I’ve met with local leaders on this issue, it’s been troubling to learn that West Michigan doesn’t have the resources to deal with this problem. That is unacceptable and this bill will help. We must continue working together to fight the opioid epidemic. Families everywhere are counting on us.” According to a newly released report, fentanyl, a synthetic opioid, was listed as a contributing death in more than half of the accidental overdose deaths in Kalamazoo County in 2017. Click here for a summary of the bill. Learn more about Upton’s work to combat the opioid epidemic here.
06.14.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, this afternoon released the following statement in reaction to the tragic death of Berrien County Register of Deeds, Lori Jarvis: “What a tremendous, tragic loss for our community. Lori was a wonderful mother, wife, and friend. “I knew her for decades. She was so well respected. It’s very sad. Her legacy of dedicated public service will live on and for that we are all grateful. Amey and I are sending our thoughts and prayers to her entire family.”
06.12.2018	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives advanced a bipartisan bill, H.R. 5002, the Advancing Cutting-Edge (ACE) Research Act, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Dearborn, and U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph. The bill passed by voice vote and now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. “Today was a significant step in supporting the critical need to develop more non-addictive medicines and alternatives for pain treatment,” said Dingell. “We have a true addiction crisis in this country but there are also people living in significant pain, and we must address both. This bill will ensure that NIH will be able to partner with real innovators to increase non-opioid pain alternatives. Many non-addictive medicines that exist on the market today also come with harsh side effects, which is another reason for this essential work. You never know where that next breakthrough might lie, and this bill’s purpose is to make sure we are leaving no stone uncovered.” “Most of us know someone affected by the tragic opioid epidemic. Southwest Michigan is no different than the rest of the country. We’re struggling.” said Upton. “There have been important, bipartisan wins in recent years, including CARA and the 21st Century Cures Act, but clearly more work is demanded and remains. The ACE Research Act is part of that work. It’s a balanced, bipartisan bill that will allow critical, cutting-edge research to help us combat this epidemic. We must continue working together to deliver results and relief to those in need.” Developing new, non-addictive pain medications is essential to combating the opioid epidemic. During Congressional hearings Dr. Francis Collins, Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), requested the agency be given more flexibility, known as Other Transaction Authority (OTA), so that the agency could better partner with innovative companies doing research to address the opioid epidemic and other public health threats. Under the ACE Research Act, the NIH Director will be able to more quickly support much-needed research on new, non-addictive pain medications and other emerging technologies that can offer hope to those suffering from opioid addiction. Senators Lamar Alexander, R-Tennessee, and Patty Murray, D-Washington, have introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate (S.2406).
06.11.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers released their updated Fiscal Year 2018 Work Plan that allocates more funds for recreational harbor dredging in Southwest Michigan: “Dredging is critical to tourism, recreation, economic activity, and jobs and we need to dig deep to protect what is the lifeblood of Southwest Michigan. These recreational harbors typically do not receive federal funding, so this is a major win for our region. I’ve always worked with our local leaders on issues like this. I’m pleased we’re moving forward, delivering real results, and keeping our tourism industry booming.” In April, Upton reached out directly to Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) R.D. James asking to include critical operation and maintenance funding for the dredging of these specific harbors. Under the new Work Plan: Saugatuck Harbor/Kalamazoo River is to receive $375,000 South Haven Harbor is to receive $365,000 New Buffalo Harbor is to receive $275,000 St. Joseph Harbor has already been allocated $765,000 for commercial dredging. Please click here for further information.
06.07.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 8, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) by a vote of 408 to 2. “Being from Michigan, we understand better than most the critical need to keep our water infrastructure up-to-snuff. This bipartisan bill does just that. It also contains two provisions that directly impact folks here in Michigan to further combat Asian Carp and re-affirm the importance of a new lock at the Soo Locks. I was proud to support this bipartisan effort and look forward to seeing it signed into law soon.” Specifically, WRDA contains a provision that expresses the sense of Congress that the construction of a new lock at the Soo Locks at Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, is vital to our national economy, national security, and national need for new critical infrastructure. Also included is a provision requiring the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to complete its Chief’s report for the Brandon Road Study by the original completion date of February 2019.
06.06.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced that Ranya Liu, a sophomore at Portage Central High School, is the winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition for Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District. Her piece, a Chinese watercolor on rice paper titled “Butterfly and Flower,” will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year. “Having studied many different wonderful pieces, we chose Ranya’s piece based on its unique talents and merits,” said Upton. “It’s yet another extraordinary piece of art to represent our community in the U.S. Capitol for hundreds of thousands to admire over the next year. Congratulations to Ranya and everyone who took part in Kalamazoo Institute of Arts 2018 High School Area Show, which has hosted the Congressional Art Competition for five years.” “In sixth grade I started making traditional Chinese paintings and immediately fell in love with it,” said Liu. “I admit that I was really fortunate to have found a teacher who taught such a unique form of art. Through these paintings I have been able to connect with the Chinese heritage that I have always felt a little distant from, and I am so excited to see the piece in the U.S. Capitol!" As the winner, Ranya and a guest will be invited to participate in a recognition ceremony in Washington, D.C., for all of the Congressional Art Competition winners. “Butterfly and Flower” by Ranya Liu
06.05.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the Department of Transportation (DOT) awarded the Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport a $4,650,000 grant to rehabilitate the runway. “This grant is welcome news for people and businesses here in Southwest Michigan. As one who has traveled through the Kalamazoo airport countless times – it really does serve as a springboard for critical investments in local jobs and economic growth. This project is just one of the many needed infrastructure improvements for our area and we must continue working together to ensure our roads, bridges, water infrastructure, and airfields are meeting the needs of today.” In April, Upton joined his colleagues in advancing the FAA Reauthorization Act that included stable funding for the Airport Improvement Program (AIP). Please click here for further information about the grant which was made possible through discretionary AIP money.
06.01.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the decision to impose tariffs on aluminum and steel imports from Canada, Mexico, and the European Union: “We need to target tariffs to address specific unfair trading practices in a way that minimizes negative consequences for Michigan jobs, manufacturers, and consumers. Our allies want certainty and here in Michigan so many of our jobs are based on exports. As I’ve listened to our local manufacturers, farmers, and job creators here in Southwest Michigan they agree: A trade war hurts Michigan. “We must continue working in a bipartisan way to ensure we’re pursuing better options.” In March, Upton publicly urged the administration to target such tariffs to bad actors.
05.25.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, U.S. Secretary of Labor Alexander Acosta, U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielson, and U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo issued a joint statement proposing streamlining, simplifying, and improving the H-2A temporary agricultural visa program: “This is welcome news and long overdue. For years, our farmers here in Southwest Michigan have struggled with this cumbersome program. In October, I helped on an effort outlining much-needed reforms. I’m glad to see some action. I look forward to working with the administration and our local farmers to improve this important program. These reforms can’t come soon enough.” You can read a copy of the letter Upton signed here.
05.25.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced that seven local students have received coveted appointments to military academy’s based on Upton’s recommendation. “It’s truly an honor to announce these appointments,” said Upton. “Each one of these students have excelled in school, sports, and academics. They’ve also undergone a rigorous selection process. We are all so proud of these students, what they’ve accomplished, and thank them for their willingness to serve our country. But we know their best days are ahead and look forward to seeing what’s next for them as they begin the next chapter of their lives.” The students can be found below in alphabetical order: Ryan Barlow has been extended an offer of appointment to the United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Coast Guard Academy. Ryan is a senior at St. Joseph High School where he excelled on the football field and won the regional MITES engineering competition. Ryan intends to play football at the Coast Guard Academy. Seth Benscoter has been extended an offer of appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Seth is a senior at Mattawan High School where he served as class president and participated in the National Honor Society. Luke Edgerly has been extended an offer of appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Luke is a senior at Gull Lake High School where he has been active in the Western Michigan University high school aviation challenge and has worked to receive his private pilot’s license. Skyler Flietstra has been extended an offer of appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Skyler is a senior as Gull Lake High School, where he was the captain of the cross country team and a member of the National Honor Society. Jacob Hancox has been extended an offer of appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Jacob is a senior at Gobles High School where he played multiple varsity sports and was Vice President of the National Honor Society. Shaffer Moore has been accepted to attend the Air Force Prep School. Shaffer is a senior at Mattawan High School where he played varsity hockey and lacrosse and participated in the National Honor Society. Hannah Miller has been extended an offer of appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Hannah is a senior at Mattawan High School where she played varsity soccer, participated in the Science Olympiad, and the National Honor Society. Each year, Upton nominates students from Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District who have excelled in their respective schools and have gone through a rigorous selection process which includes an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board which is comprised of local leaders. Upon approval by the Board, names are then passed on to Upton who then officially nominates them to respective military academies. The individual academies then make the final decision on all military appointments. For more information on service academy nominations please click here.
05.24.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) by a bipartisan 351 to 66 vote. The NDAA is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligation: To “provide for the common defense” of our country. Upton also released the following statement: “Our military faces grave challenges on multiple fronts. This is why it is so important we support this bipartisan legislation that improves our military readiness, gives our men and women in uniform a well-deserved pay raise, increases Pentagon accountability, and more. “This year’s NDAA also focuses on advancing priorities important to folks here in Michigan. We’re taking action to solve the issue of PFAS contamination and reaffirming the critical importance of the Soo Locks to our military goals. “Working together, we will continue to stand in support of our military, their families, and our readiness. They deserve nothing less.” This year’s NDAA is focused on advancing Michigan priorities in two main ways. The first is continuing to authorize funding for a Centers for Disease Control (CDC) study on the health impact of Per-and Plyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) in water sources as well as contamination remediation at the Department of Defense (DoD) sites. PFAS are useful chemicals when it comes to doing things such as putting out fires, but they can cause serious health issues if they leach into water sources. In Michigan, elevated levels of these chemicals have been discovered in and around several current and former military instillations. The Michigan Congressional Delegation has been united in making PFAS remediation at these sites a priority for the DoD and will continue to do so as the legislative process moves forward. The second is report language affirming the national security importance of the Soo Locks. The Michigan Congressional Delegation stands together on the importance of the Soo Locks to our nation’s military. Specifically, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and all involved in executive branch agencies, are urged through this year’s NDAA to expedite necessary reviews, analysis, and approvals in order to speed the much-need upgrades at the Soo Locks.
05.22.2018	Representatives Fred Upton (R-MI), John Faso (R-NY), Paul Tonko (D-NY), and John Sarbanes (D-MD) today introduced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the School-Based Health Centers (SBHC) program. The legislation, H.R. 5899, will reauthorize the School-Based Health Centers program through 2023. The program’s statutory authorization expired in 2014. SBHCs primarily operate in underserved communities and play a crucial role in the provision of primary care services to school children, which also includes dental screenings and mental health services. SBHCs have become increasingly important as opioid abuse has become more common amongst students who have visited a doctor for an injury or had surgeries. "My home state of Michigan has 121 school-based health centers,” said Upton. “These health care providers fill a critical need for our kids including mental health services. I’m glad to join this bipartisan coalition supporting this reauthorization to ensure school-based health centers continue to help our kids succeed in every facet of life." “New York has the largest statewide network of SBHCs in the country and they are increasingly important in rural Upstate communities,” said Faso. “These health providers fill geographic service gaps and ensure that students are receiving necessary care, such as preventative check-ups, dental services, and mental health services. I am glad we have a bipartisan coalition that recognizes the importance of SBHCs. This reauthorization is long overdue.” “School-based health centers are a critical source of healthcare for students including those struggling with mental health challenges or substance use disorders,” said Tonko. “In the midst of our nation’s opioid epidemic, these centers have become even more important, especially in communities where there is limited access to substance use and mental health care. I am proud to stand with my colleagues in a bipartisan basis to support this important measure that serves students and families across Upstate New York.” “Thousands of children across the country depend on school-based health centers to deliver primary care, mental health services and dental treatment,” said Sarbanes. “This bipartisan effort will ensure that school-based health centers have the resources they need to keep our children healthy and help them succeed in the classroom.” “The reauthorization of school-based health centers is a critical step forward for children. At the heart of the SBHC model is the incontestable fact that healthy students are better learners. SBHCs represent a key strategy for ensuring our children and adolescents receive high-quality primary and mental health care services in a location that’s safe, convenient, and accessible,” said John Schlitt, president of the School-Based Health Alliance. “In this critical time, SBHCs are also meeting the increased mental health needs of the lesser known victims of the national opioid epidemic – children who are affected by their parents’ or families’ struggles with addiction.” Background There are over 2,000 SBHCs nationwide that serve over two million students. More than 1/3 of SBHCs nationwide are in rural communities. Nearly 1,200 of SBHCs nationwide offer mental health services.
05.22.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in advancing S. 292, the Childhood Cancer Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research (STAR) Act, which is the most comprehensive childhood cancer legislation ever taken up by Congress. “Following on the heels of the 21st Century Cures Act, this is another important step to help find cures and treatments for our smallest patients bravely battling disease,” said Upton. “This bill will bolster research and treatment efforts for pediatric cancer. With today’s strong bipartisan vote, this bill now heads to the president’s desk. For patients here in Michigan and across the country – hope is on its way.” Specifically, the Childhood Cancer STAR Act will: Authorize $30 million a year through Fiscal Year 2023 for grants to support the National Childhood Cancer Registry. Authorize the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to make awards to support childhood cancer biorepositories available to health care professionals and scientific researchers. Authorize the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to award grants to state cancer registries to enhance and expand infrastructure to track the epidemiology of cancer in children, adolescents, and young adults. Require at least one individual with experience in pediatric oncology to be included on the National Cancer Advisory Board. Require the Director of National Institutes of Health (NIH) to ensure that childhood cancer research projects conducted or supported by NIH are included in the appropriate reports to Congress, which may include reports regarding the Pediatric Research Initiative. Allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to make grants establishing pilot programs to develop, study, or evaluate model systems to improve the quality and efficiency of care for childhood cancer survivors and to improve the coordination of care as survivors transition to adult care. Require the Secretary to conduct a review and report to Congress on the Department’s activities related to workforce development for health care providers who treat pediatric cancer patients and survivors. Allow the NIH Director to make grants to entities to conduct or support research relating to pediatric cancer survivors. Allow the Secretary to identify best practices for quality childhood cancer survivorship care in consultation with experts in late effects of disease and treatment of childhood cancers.
05.22.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in advancing H.R. 5682, the FIRST STEP Act. This bipartisan legislation improves the federal prison system through the implementation of corrections policy reforms. It strengthens public safety, enhances prison security, and provides inmates with the help they need to be more successful upon re-entering society. “This bipartisan bill will help Americans of all walks of life. The vast majority of federal prisoners will someday be released from prison and it’s important to give them tools they need to become more productive citizens and not return to a life of crime,” said Upton. “The FIRST STEP Act provides targeted, bipartisan reforms to make our prison system more effective at rehabilitating offenders through personal development, educational, and vocational training programs. We must continue to work together to improve our entire criminal justice system.” H.R. 5682 strengthens public safety by allowing the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) to utilize effective recidivism reduction programs and provide incentives for inmates to participate in those programs. Ultimately, inmates could earn credits toward an alternative custody arrangement – such as a halfway house or home confinement – at the end of their prison sentence. Criminals convicted of certain serious offenses such as sexual offenders, murderers, and others would not be illegible for these programs. H.R. 5682 enhances prison security by requiring the director of BOP to provide de-escalation training as part of the regular training requirements of correctional officers. H.R. 5682 provides inmates the help they need by providing more employment opportunities for inmates by expanding the federal prison industries program, initiating pilot programs for youth mentorship and the training and therapy of rescue dogs, requires the BOP to submit a report and evaluation of the current pilot program to treat heroin and opioid abuse through medication assistance treatment, and more.
05.17.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, last night joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance the VA MISSION Act of 2018. This bipartisan legislation will strengthen and improve the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health care system for the approximately nine million veteran patients who utilize the system. The legislation passed by a 347 to 70 vote. “This bipartisan bill contains major reforms that will help our veterans in Southwest Michigan and across the country,” said Upton. “It continues investment in long-term VA strength and success coupled with major reforms allowing greater choice for veterans. Voting to improve the lives of our veterans, and their families, is always the easiest vote I cast. Today marks a win for improved veteran health care and choice.” “This bipartisan legislation will make a real difference in the lives of veterans right here in Southwest Michigan,” said Ryan Mitchell, Operation Iraqi Freedom Veteran from Kalamazoo. “We applaud Fred Upton for his positive work and urge the Senate and president to act quickly to sign this important legislation into law.” “These much-needed reforms will make a big difference for veterans like me,” said Ruben Benavidez, Operation Iraqi Freedom Veteran from Van Buren County. “I want to thank Fred for his efforts. We’re looking forward to seeing this bipartisan legislation signed into law.” The VA MISSION Act makes significant reforms to the VA Choice Program. This program was designed to allow certain veterans to access health care from civilian doctors if they live more than 40 miles from a VA facility or were unable to get an appointment at the VA within 30 days. The VA MISSION Act removes the current 30-day, 40-mile barrier to expand veteran choice and access to timely, quality, health care. It also fully funds the current program while the new choice program is being implemented. The VA MISSION Act is supported by groups such as the Air Force Association, the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, the American Veterans, the Gold Star Wives of America, the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, the Jewish War Veterans, the Marine Corps League, the Military Family Association, the National Association of Community Health Centers, the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Wounded Warrior Project, and many more.
05.15.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James N. Mattis urging support for the Department of Defense to select the Fort Custer Training Center as the preferred location for a potential east coast missile defense site. Key excerpt: I have long supported missile defense. At times like these, with North Korea and Iran continuing to develop long-range missiles, it is imperative that we be prepared. That is precisely why, years ago, Congress included legislation supported by both Republican and Democrat Administrations to study the preferred location for a potential east coast CIS that would increase the capacity and battlespace of our existing Ground-based Midcourse Defense System. After more than four years of study, it is clear that Fort Custer is an ideal location to support the mission of a third CIS. It is strategically located to provide superior coverage of the continental United States, and it can get there quickly, cost effectively, and with very little impact on the environment. Furthermore, Fort Custer has the leadership and community backing to support the long-term success of a potential CIS. Read the full letter online here or below: The Honorable James N. Mattis Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Mattis, As the Department of Defense prepares to release the Missile Defense Review, I write to reiterate my strong support for the selection of Fort Custer Training Center as the preferred location for a potential east coast missile defense site. As you know, the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act requires the Secretary of Defense to designate the preferred location of a potential Continental Interceptor Site (CIS) within 60 days of completing the review. The Missile Defense Agency has been studying a preferred location since 2013, completing environmental assessments of the three remaining locations under consideration back in 2016. I have long supported missile defense. At times like these, with North Korea and Iran continuing to develop long-range missiles, it is imperative that we be prepared. That is precisely why, years ago, Congress included legislation supported by both Republican and Democrat Administrations to study the preferred location for a potential east coast CIS that would increase the capacity and battlespace of our existing Ground-based Midcourse Defense system. After more than four years of study, it is clear that Fort Custer is an ideal location to support the mission of a third CIS. It is strategically located to provide superior coverage of the continental United States, and it can get there quickly, cost effectively, and with very little impact on the environment. Furthermore, Fort Custer has the leadership and community backing to support the long-term success of a potential CIS. Positioned near two major interstate highways and a 10,000-foot runway, Fort Custer boasts the existing infrastructure needed to support construction and operation of the site. Its fields are shovel-ready and developing the CIS would not impact endangered species or habitats – ensuring environmentally sound, quick, and affordable construction. Fort Custer has made investments in renewable energy that offer additional cost-saving opportunities, including an operational solar field and wind funnel program. Fort Custer also claims the leadership and strong public support needed to sustain the mission over the long-term. Operated by the Michigan National Guard and adjacent to the 110th Wing at the W.K. Kellogg Air National Guard Base, Fort Custer is the center of a community with a proud tradition of supporting our military and their families. From the start, community support for the CIS was overwhelming, with backing from elected officials, local businesses, economic development organizations, educational institutions, unions, and residents. Missile defense personnel would benefit from many programs and community initiatives already in place to support Fort Custer’s soldiers and their families. In conclusion, the decision is already years later than anticipated. It is time to get the ball rolling. My office stands ready to assist in any way we can. Sincerely, Fred Upton Member of Congress
05.10.2018	Today, the House of Representatives approved a bipartisan amendment introduced by U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Dearborn, expressing the sense of the Congress that the governments of the United States and Canada should not allow permanent or long-term storage of spent nuclear fuel or other radioactive waste near the Great Lakes. The amendment comes as Ontario Power Generation (OPG) continues to seek approval to construct a deep geologic repository for nuclear waste less than one mile from Lake Huron in Kincardine, Ontario. The amendment now moves to the U.S. Senate as part of the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2018. “The Great Lakes are the lifeblood of our great state,” said Upton. “Right now we have four spent nuclear fuel sites, including two in Southwest Michigan right on the shores of Lake Michigan. Keeping spent fuel there in perpetuity is not an option, especially when a permanent, responsible solution has long been available. This amendment sends a bipartisan message that we will continue working to protect our Great Lakes for future generations.” “The Great Lakes account for 20 percent of the world’s freshwater supply and are absolutely critical for millions of Americans who rely on them for clean drinking water, jobs and their way of life,” said Dingell. “This amendment sends a strong, bipartisan message to our friends and neighbors in Canada that the U.S. Congress is united against storing nuclear waste near the Great Lakes. Rep. Upton and I were proud to get this amendment included on behalf of everyone from the Great Lakes region, and we will continue working with our colleagues to protect these precious waters for future generations.” The Great Lakes delegation has been consistent in their strong opposition to OPG’s proposed nuclear waste site near the Great Lakes. Last year, 32 Members sent a letter to the State Department urging leadership to do everything in their power to protect the Great Lakes and convince the Canadian government to select an alternative site. A copy of the letter is available here.
05.09.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Dearborn, today joined the majority of their colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee in voting to advance their bipartisan legislation H.R. 5002, the Advancing Cutting-Edge (ACE) Research Act. The bill passed unanimously and now heads to the House Floor for consideration. “I’m pleased to see the ACE Research Act – a bipartisan bill my colleague Debbie Dingell and I have worked on – advance today,” said Upton. “This balanced bill better allows the NIH to partner with innovative companies doing cutting-edge research to address to the tragic opioid epidemic and get non-addictive pain medications to those in need. We’ve had major responses to the opioid crisis in recent years, but more work remains. We urge our leadership here in the House to bring this bill up for a vote quickly. There isn’t time to waste.” “I have lived all sides of the opioid epidemic – my father was addicted to opioids before anyone really knew what they were and my sister died of a drug overdose. Yet my husband lives with chronic pain and needs opioids to live comfortably,” said Dingell. “We cannot let the pendulum swing too far in either direction and we cannot be denying medication from those who need it. This bill will allow the NIH to innovate and partner with new entities conducting cutting-edge medical research so we can develop new non-addictive painkillers – giving people the relief they need from crippling pain while helping to prevent addiction from taking hold of families in the first place.” Developing new, non-addictive pain medications is essential to combating the opioid epidemic. During Congressional hearings Dr. Francis Collins, Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), requested the agency be given more flexibility, known as other transaction authority (OTA), so the agency could better partner with innovative companies doing research to address the opioid epidemic and other public health threats. Under the ACE Research Act, the NIH Director will be able to more quickly support research on new, non-addictive pain medications and other emerging technologies that can offer hope to those suffering from opioid addiction. Senators Lamar Alexander (TN) and Patty Murray (WA), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, have introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate (S.2406).
04.27.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act by a bipartisan vote of 393 to 13. “As one who flies home nearly every week, I applaud this bipartisan effort to ensure continued safety and stability in American aviation,” said Upton. “This reauthorization will help keep us the world leader in aviation: putting American jobs, innovation, and the traveling public first. Importantly, we also help smaller airfields here in Southwest Michigan by making smart infrastructure investments that improve reliability and safety.” H.R. 4 reauthorizes the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and Department of Transportation (DOT) to carry out activities related to civil aviation for five years. Providing long-term stability for the Nation’s aviation community, ensuring continued investment in airports large and small across the country, improving America’s competitiveness in the global aviation section, ensuring passenger protections, and more. H.R. 4 also provides stable funding for the Airport Improvement Program (AIP), which issues grants to public use airports for planning and development purposes and is an essential part of maintaining long-term sustainability of airports of all sizes. H.R. 4 is supported by numerous groups including the Airline Pilots Association, the American Association of People with Disabilities, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the Association of Flight Attendants, the National Association of Manufacturers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and more. Learn more here.
04.23.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following video public service announcement, first published on his Facebook page, encouraging residents of Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District to participate in National Prescription Drug Take Back Day, to be held on Saturday, April 28, 2018 from 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Click here to watch Upton’s video PSA National Prescription Drug Take Back Day is sponsored by the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA). The service provides an opportunity for citizens to safely and securely dispose of their expired, unused, and unwanted prescription drugs at authorized disposal sites in their community. Last October, the DEA held its 14th National Prescription Take Back Day, resulting in 912,305 lbs. of pills collected across 5,421, collection sites nationwide. To learn more about Upton’s work to combat the opioid crisis please click here. The following locations in and around Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District will collect unused prescription drugs: Allegan County Allegan County Sheriff’s Office; 640 River St. in Allegan Gun Lake Tribe Public Safety; 2869 Mno Bmadzewen Dr. in Shelbyville Michigan State Police Wayland Post; 544 North Main St. in Wayland Berrien County Howard Township Hall; 1345 Barron Lake Road in Niles Michigan State Police Niles Post; 1600 Silverbrook Avenue in Niles Cass County N/A Kalamazoo County N/A St. Joseph County N/A Van Buren County Antwerp Township Activity Center; 24821 Front Avenue in Mattawan Michigan State Police Paw Paw Post; 43255 60th Avenue in Paw Paw Shoreline Wellness and Rehab Center; 950 S. Bailey Avenue in South Haven
04.19.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the U.S Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced the second round of grants to help states and territories combat the opioid epidemic were on the way. Michigan is set to receive $16.3 million in this round of funding. These Opioid State Targeted Response (STR) grants were made available as part of Upton’s 21st Century Cures Act. “This is great news for Michigan. As we all work together to end the tragic opioid epidemic, these targeted grants, made possible through 21st Century Cures, will be vital resources in the fight. We’ve made progress in funding critical opioid prevention and treatment programs as well as assisting law enforcement efforts – but clearly more work remains. As we continue to hear of loved ones lost, the fight is not done yet. This is another great step.” The grants are to be administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) within HHS. The STR grants address the opioid epidemic by increasing access to prevention, treatment, and recovery activities for opioid use disorder (including prescription opioids as well as illicit drugs such as heroin). Last April, Upton applauded the first round of funding from HHS and last month the president signed into law a government funding bill that provided $4 billion to help address prevention, treatment, and enforcement issues as part of the opioid epidemic. Learn more about Upton’s work to combat the opioid epidemic here.
04.19.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today sent a letter to Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) R.D. James asking to include critical operation and maintenance funding for dredging of harbors in Southwest Michigan. As the U.S. Army Corps has already provided robust funding for commercial harbors such as St. Joseph Harbor for its dredging in Fiscal Years 2017, 2018, and 2019, the letter focused on allocating funds for recreational harbors in Saugatuck, South Haven, and New Buffalo Harbors. “The dredging of our harbors big and small is critical here in Southwest Michigan to recreation, economic activity, and jobs,” said Upton. “I’ve always fought for these funds which are so important locally. From good-paying local jobs, fishing, and fun – these recreational harbors need attention and I’m hopeful we can deliver.” The full letter can be found online here or below: Dear Mr. James: As you work to develop the 2018 work plan for the Army Civil Works program, I ask that you include critical operation and maintenance funding for dredging of harbors in Southwest Michigan, essential to jobs and economic activity up-and-down the region. Southwest Michigan’s recreational harbors are the lifeblood of the coastal communities they serve, enhancing regional and local economic development and supporting local job growth. As a result of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018, Congress has allocated additional funds for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) to complete harbor maintenance that was not originally included in the Administration’s budget request. As such, I ask that you include the following recreational harbors in your 2018 work plan: Saugatuck Harbor South Haven Harbor New Buffalo Harbor Currently, all three of these harbors require maintenance dredging that is necessary for maritime safety and to support the local economies. The last time the Corps completed maintenance dredging for all three of these harbors was in 2013 to remove shoaling that occurred in the fall of 2012 due to Hurricane Sandy. However, Saugatuck Harbor requires dredging on a 3 to 4 year cycle, South Haven Harbor requires dredging on a 2 to 4 year cycle, and New Buffalo Harbor requires dredging on a 1 to 2 year cycle. These operations and maintenance projects are past due, and need to be prioritized to ensure the region does not suffer the consequences, including loss of jobs and loss of recreational, commercial, and charter fishing for thousands of people. Specifically, the New Buffalo Harbor desperately needs the dredged material to be placed along the beach as beach nourishment due to severe erosion of the shoreline. The erosion is not only causing destruction to private property, but is also threatening the water supply for the City of New Buffalo due to its pump house located in the area being eroded. That is why it is so important that funding for these projects is included in the 2018 work plan. I appreciate the Corps realizing the St. Joseph Harbor’s importance as a regionally significant commercial receiving port on the Great Lakes and as a result including robust funding for its dredging in Fiscal Years 2017, 2018, and 2019. This harbor is critical for commodities such as limestone, sand, gravel, armor stone, cement, slag, salt, and petroleum products that provide good-paying local jobs for families in Southwest Michigan. Thank you for your consideration of my request, and I look forward to your response.
04.18.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his colleagues in the U.S. House in voting for H.R. 5445, the 21st Century IRS Act and H.R. 5444, the Taxpayer First Act. Both pieces of bipartisan legislation reform and revamp the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on the heels of the Tax Day tech meltdown. “On the heels of yesterday’s Tax Day meltdown at the IRS, it’s clear we need to revamp, modernize, and fix what ails the IRS,” said Upton. “These two bipartisan bills will strengthen the IT security of the IRS, protect sensitive taxpayer information, and extend valuable tax tools that help low-and moderate-income Americans. We’ve put a new tax code in place, now is the time for a new approach at the IRS as well, one that puts taxpayers first.” H.R. 5445 would modernize the IRS information technology (IT) infrastructure and provide additional tools needed to protect taxpayer information and to combat identify theft tax refund fraud. H.R. 5445 is supported by groups such as Citizens Against Government Waste, 60 Plus Association, the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council, and more. H.R. 5444 creates an independent appeals process to review taxpayers’ disputes, provides enforcement reforms to rein in the IRS’ abuse of property seizure, and requires the agency to develop a detailed plan on how to redesign its structure by 2020. It also permanently extends the Free File and Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Programs – which are valuable tools for low-and moderate-income Americans. H.R. 5444 is supported by groups such as Americans for Tax Reform, the Coalition for Effective and Efficient Tax Administration, the National Foreign Trade Council and more.
04.17.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the passing of former White House First Lady Barbara Bush: “Barbara Bush was the epitome of class and as genuine as they come. I have fond memories of campaigning with her and husband George H.W. Bush, and he couldn’t have asked for a better supporter during their 73 years of marriage. She always thought of others first, was always kind, and was always quick with a joke and a smile. She led a life of service to her country and will be missed greatly. Amey and I are sending all of our prayers and deepest sympathies to the entire Bush family."
04.12.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after discovery of three small dents – likely caused by a ship’s dragging anchor – in the Line 5 pipeline, which runs under the Straits of Mackinac. “There is no excuse for this ship’s action and no excuse for not protecting the straits and our Great Lakes. Today I had the opportunity to discuss this issue directly with U.S. Secretary of Energy Rick Perry during a Subcommittee on Energy hearing. I’ve also raised my concerns directly with the Department of Transportation, the State of Michigan, and Coast Guard representatives. “In the coming days and weeks we’ll continue working hand-in-glove with all involved to ensure everything is safe. We are all watching. “I also continue to push for long-term solutions to replacing Line 5 such as tunneling under the lake bed to establish a new, modern pipeline that isn’t as vulnerable to the elements and man-made foibles.” To watch the exchange with Secretary Perry please click here. Upton has previously urged action, transparency, and accountability from Enbridge Inc. officials on its Line 5 pipeline, located where lakes Michigan and Huron connect. Upton also spearheaded the bipartisan efforts to enhance pipeline safety via legislation in 2012 and again in 2016. As part of the legislation, there was a requirement for any new pipeline under a significant body of water to be under the river/lake bed.
04.11.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after Speaker of the House Paul D. Ryan announced he would not seek re-election and retire at the end of his term: “Today’s announcement is not surprising. His three teenagers and wife have seen him commute to D.C. virtually every week of their lives and he has slept nights in his office all his days. I was among those who urged a very reluctant Paul to step up and accept the nomination to become Speaker of the House because he is a bridge builder within our caucus. He has been a force in advancing our landmark, bipartisan 21st Century Cures legislation. His long-term priority – making our country more competitive by lowering the tax rates for all – has now been enacted. His family wants him back and I respect his decision and will always be grateful for his friendship and positive leadership.”
04.11.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today had the opportunity to ask questions of chairman and chief executive officer of Facebook, Inc. Mark Zuckerberg during a House Committee on Energy and Commerce hearing. Click here to watch. For more information on the hearing please click here.
04.10.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the U.S. Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) approved the State of Michigan’s application for Opportunity Zones. The recently signed into law Tax Cuts & Jobs Act, of which Upton was a conferee, established Opportunity Zones – areas eligible for tax benefits aimed at spurring private investment, economic growth, and jobs in distressed communities. Learn more about tax reform here and more about Opportunity Zones here. “These Opportunity Zones have great potential to allow entrepreneurs and businesses here in Southwest Michigan to take advantage of a wider array of economic development tools,” said Upton. “We’ve seen historic investment in our local businesses, tax cuts for the middle-class, and more money in worker paychecks as a result of tax reform. Now, we’re seeing a greater range of possibilities to build more businesses and create more local jobs for and by residents of Southwest Michigan and throughout our great state.” Opportunity Zones in Michigan’s Sixth Congressional district can be found here or below. Allegan County Fillmore township Holland City Berrien County Benton charter township Benton Harbor city Niles city Niles township Sodus township Watervliet city Watervliet township Cass County Dowagiac city Cassopolis village Jefferson township LaGrange township Kalamazoo County Kalamazoo city Portage city St. Joseph County Constantine township Fabius township Florence township Sherman township Sturgis city Sturgis township Three Rivers city Van Buren County Hartford township Lawrence township
04.02.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after Governor Rick Snyder’s request for assistance from the U.S. Small Business Administration was approved for dealing with flood recovery costs: “We’ve seen first-hand the destruction this severe flooding has caused – today’s announcement is welcome news for our area. These low-interest loans will help our local businesses and residents recover financially from the tremendous impact of the recent flooding.” Upton had previously led the bipartisan effort in support of Snyder’s SBA request. The SBA disaster assistance program provides low-interest disaster loans for uninsured losses incurred by homeowners, renters, businesses, and non-profit organizations to repair and replace real estate, personal property, machinery and equipment, inventory and business assets that have been damaged or destroyed. The SBA tailors the repayment of each disaster loan to the borrower’s financial capability. Additional information is available here.
03.23.2018	As students from across the country prepare to march on Saturday, U.S. Representatives Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Fred Upton (MI-06), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus Working Group on Response to the Parkland Shooting, announced they are continuing to work together to find bipartisan consensus on meaningful legislation to reduce gun violence in our communities. The caucus reached agreement on commonsense measures to improve school safety and fund mental illness research, which successfully passed the House of Representatives and Senate in the omnibus funding agreement. “Looking forward, we urge our leadership and colleagues to join us in fair, full, and thoughtful debate on solutions to tragic gun violence,” said Upton. “The students converging on Washington and those that we are joining in Michigan are pleading for action. We owe it to them to deliver. There is plenty of blame to go around for past tragedies, but what can Congress do now to prevent more? We have made progress on a host of fronts – but we are not done. Our discussions continue on developing common-sense ‘Red Flag’ legislation, banning Bump Stocks, and stricter background checks to include new domestic violence protections. There are plenty of areas we can find agreement but it will take commitment, courage, and consensus. Our bipartisan work continues.” “The work of the Problem Solvers Caucus is just beginning,” said Dingell. “We have a responsibility to keep our children and communities safe, and with thousands of children marching in Washington and across the country this weekend, it is critical that we give them hope. Congressman Upton and I remain committed to working with our colleagues – Democrats and Republicans – toward meaningful legislation to ensure our kids can go to school and feel safe, including measures to improve and strengthen the background check system, expand ‘Red Flag’ laws, and close loopholes that allow domestic abusers access to guns. The time to act is now, and we must all have the courage and conviction to advance meaningful solutions that will save lives.” The forty-eight member bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, led by Co-Chairs Tom Reed (NY-23) and Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05), launched the Working Group in response to the tragedy in Parkland, Florida, to find common ground between Republicans and Democrats. The Working Group, co-chaired by Upton and Dingell, has partnered with key stakeholders and Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle to find consensus for sensible policy on preventing gun violence and ensuring school safety. Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) and Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy (FL-07) also serve on the Problem Solvers Caucus Working Group. The Problem Solvers Caucus agreed to support H.R. 4477, the Fix NICS Act of 2017; H.R. 4909, the STOP School Violence Act of 2018; H.R. 4811, the Securing Our Schools Act of 2018; and appropriations to fund mental health programs established in the 21st Century Cures Act, all of which were passed by the House of Representatives and Senate and recently signed into law. The Caucus also agreed to support H.R. 3999, legislation to ban the manufacture, sale, and use of “bump stocks” and similar devices, and H.R. 4471, the NICS Denial Notification Act of 2017. “We must work together to find a comprehensive solution to violence in our schools, which is what the Problem Solvers Caucus looks to achieve. We have to focus on the full picture by addressing mental illness, funding School Resource Officers, and enhancing the background check system. It’s time we ensure that when our kids leave for school in the morning, that they will be safe and protected,” – Problem Solvers Caucus Co-Chair Tom Reed. “America’s teachers and students deserve better to prevent violence in our schools. There’s no reason we shouldn’t be able to end gun violence and ensure that our children are safe in school. I’m proud that, after Parkland, our caucus has overcome the traditional partisan divide on this issue and took the first steps to deliver a plan to keep our kids and families safe.” – Problem Solvers Caucus Co-Chair Josh Gottheimer. “Gun violence has touched far too many families, including my own, and it is time that Congress take substantive action to reduce gun deaths in our country. While no one piece of legislation is the panacea, we must continue to work together to pass reasonable measures like those included in this bipartisan package.” – Rep. Salud Carbajal (CA-24) “The proposed measures that are being put forward by the Problem Solver’s Caucus today, I believe are a good starting point in this national conversation, and will ensure that our schools, teachers and our law enforcement partners have the necessary tools to begin addressing some of the systematic problems that currently exist.” – Rep. Mike Coffman (CO-06) “Finding a way to keep our children and communities safe is unquestionably a top priority for Americans across our country. To do so, we must stop fighting over our differences and, instead, work together on policy proposals that will improve school safety and on which we can find agreement. This is how I continue to work towards solutions in the San Joaquin Valley, and this is what we are doing in the Problem Solvers Caucus.” – Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) “While there is no single or easy solution to end gun violence, it is long past time for Congress to take the first steps. It’s what our families deserve and demand,” said Crist. “These common-sense reforms have the support of a majority of Americans — Republicans and Democrats alike. Saving lives and keeping children safe isn’t a partisan issue, it’s about doing what’s right for the people.” – Rep. Charlie Crist (FL-13) “For the first time in decades, there is growing bipartisan consensus for sensible gun policy, a polarizing issue that has deeply divided Republicans and Democrats. This common-sense legislation will ban devices that blatantly circumvent already existing law without restricting Second Amendment rights. I’m grateful for the Problem Solvers Caucus’ support and hope that paired with the activism of Americans across the nation we can build enough momentum to stir even more of my colleagues to join us in supporting policies that could mitigate and prevent similar gun violence tragedies in the future.” – Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) “As we pray as a nation for all the victims and families devastated by the Parkland school shooting, we must not allow yet another tragedy to go unanswered. It is incumbent upon all of us to identify the root causes of this senseless violence and move to address it immediately. All options must be on the table, including comprehensive background checks, a bump stock ban, prohibiting the sale of military assault weapons and full funding for gun violence research in a comprehensive manner that could have prevented tragedies like this. This Congress can, and must, take meaningful action to put aside partisanship and work toward solutions.” – Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08) “Today, the Problem Solvers Caucus is taking an important step in endorsing multiple bills addressing gun violence. I’m proud of the Caucus’ role in building bipartisan support for solutions to the tough issues of the day, because bipartisan ideas have the best chance to make it into law and endure over time.” – Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-03) “We have to collaborate now – Republicans and Democrats – to finally and effectively address the nationwide public health crisis of gun violence. We can’t wait for the political tides to change because by then we will have lost more lives to senseless acts, and that is why I am proud to have worked with the bipartisan Problem Solver Caucus’s on several gun safety bills.” – Rep. Jared Polis (CO-02) “Our children deserve to feel safe and secure in the places where they learn. The commonsense legislation endorsed by the Problem Solvers Caucus represents an important first step in our work to improve student safety and reduce gun violence in our communities, and I’ll be working with my colleagues to build on this bipartisan progress in the days ahead through responsible reform of our gun laws. I’m particularly proud that the bipartisan provision I introduced to help schools install panic buttons in the classroom has earned the support of the Problem Solvers Caucus, and was glad to see the measure included in the omnibus passed by the House and Senate this week.” – Rep. Brad Schneider (IL-10).
03.22.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives advanced H.R. 1625, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018: “This bill contains many wins for Southwest Michigan; Full funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, funding to continue addressing the opioid crisis, funding for mental health initiatives made possible through our 21st Century Cures Act, and new funding for innovative medical research. It also includes common-sense fixes to tighten gun background checks and school safety. And we can’t forget it properly funds our military and contains a well-earned pay raise for our troops. “I’ve always fought for robust Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding as it is so important for safe drinking water, keeping Asian Carp out of our lakes, and the vitality of our Great Lakes economy and ecosystem. “The opioid epidemic is tearing through our communities and I was pleased to see additional funding go to states to help address this issue at the local level. “Mental health and innovative medical research are another top priority and it’s a great sign that we’re funding these important initiatives that will help find cures for diseases and help those suffering from mental health issues.” H.R. 1625 is the “omnibus” appropriations bill that allocates funding for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018 to virtually every federal department and agency pursuant to the two-year budget agreement Congress reached in February. Upton had previously led bipartisan efforts for opioid, Great Lakes, NIH, and mental health funding as well as tightening background checks and school safety.
03.16.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined more than 60 colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies pushing for full funding of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Fiscal Year 2019 appropriations bill. Upton also released the following statement: “As I’ve said before: Don’t mess with the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is an important tool. Halting funding now would reverse years of progress we’ve made to improve water quality, fight invasive species, restore the ecosystem, and more. We must continue to work in a bipartisan manner to ensure vital investments in the economic and environmental health of our Great Lakes continue.” Learn more about Upton’s bipartisan record of fighting for the Great Lakes here. You can read the letter online here or below: We write to respectfully request that you provide $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) in the Fiscal Year 2019 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The Great Lakes are truly a national treasure. The Great Lakes are the largest freshwater system in the world, holding roughly 18 percent of the world's fresh water supply and 90 percent of the United States' fresh water supply. The Lakes are also an economic driver that supports jobs, commerce, agriculture, transportation, and tourism for millions of people across the country. More than a century of environmental damage has taken a significant toll on the Great Lakes, which the GLRI is helping to correct. Since the initiative was launched in 2010, GLRI funds have been used to support almost 3,500 restoration projects to improve water quality, protect and restore native habitat, clean up environmentally-impaired Areas of Concern, fight invasive species, and prevent beach closings. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is showing real and measurable results, but there is still a great deal of work to do. The Great Lakes Basin is vulnerable to various pollutants and invasive species, which threaten the health of the Great Lakes. For example, in 2014 a toxic algal bloom in Lake Erie forced 400,000 residents in the Toledo area to go without home water service for three days. While there has not been a repeat of shutting down the water system, the blooms are not abating. At the peak of last summer’s bloom, over 1,000 square kilometers of Lake Erie was affected. While the GLRI has prioritized monitoring efforts, which help drinking water treatment plant operators and beach managers minimize health impacts associated with these toxic algal blooms, more must be done to better understand and prevent these algal blooms in the future. The federal government commits significant resources each year to address the challenges the Great Lakes face. In particular, GLRI resources have supplemented agency budgets to fund coordinated efforts to protect and restore the Great Lakes ecosystem, and we must ensure that this important work continues. Halting this commitment would reverse years of progress, dramatically reduce the GLRI’s impact, and jeopardize the environmental and economic health of the region. To that end, we urge you to continue this vital investment in the economic and environmental health of the Great Lakes by including $300 million for the GLRI in the Fiscal Year 2019 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill.
03.14.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance H.R. 4909, the STOP School Violence Act, by a 407 to 10 vote. Upton had previously co-sponsored the bill. “When we send our kids off to school, we expect them to arrive back home safely. This bipartisan legislation addresses flaws in the system that fail to prevent violence in school. It represents a common-sense step that students, teachers, and law enforcement should all agree on,” said Upton. “Importantly, this legislation will provide an historic investment in school safety plans including prevention training for teachers and administrators, the formation of crisis intervention teams with mental health professionals, and better coordination between schools and law enforcement. We won’t completely solve the problem of school violence overnight, but this is a great start.” Upton has met with students, parents, and teachers at schools in Berrien, Kalamazoo, and Van Buren Counties in the weeks since the tragic Parkland, Florida shooting to discuss ideas for curbing violence at schools. H.R. 4909 is a bill to help schools and communities stop violence before it happens by supplying $500 million for state-based grants focused on early intervention and school safety infrastructure. The Department of Justice would be authorized to make grants to states for the purpose of training students, school personnel, and law enforcement to identify potential signs of violence in order to prevent individuals from hurting themselves of others. The legislation also permits the development and operation of anonymous reporting systems, and formation of school threat assessment and intervention teams to help schools find and assess threats before tragedy strikes. H.R. 4909 is supported by groups such as the Sandy Hook Promise. H.R. 4909 also includes language from H.R. 4811, the Securing our Schools Act. This bill, co-sponsored by Upton, would authorize the Department of Justice to offer grants to local school districts for buying and installing SOS, or panic buttons, in classrooms. This notification technology will act as both a deterrent from, and front-line response to, situations that place children and educators in harm’s way. H.R. 4811 is supported by groups such as the National Sheriffs Association and the National Education Association.
03.14.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today spearheaded a bipartisan letter to U.S. Small Businesses Administration (SBA) Administrator Linda McMahon urging support for Governor Rick Snyder’s disaster declaration request. If approved, the SBA disaster assistance program would make low-interest loans available to residents and businesses affected by recent, historic flooding. In addition to Upton, the letter was signed by U.S. Reps. Debbie Dingell; Tim Walberg; Paul Mitchell; Bill Huizenga; Dave Trott; John Moolenaar; Dan Kildee; Jack Bergman; Mike Bishop; and Brenda Lawrence. You can read the letter online here or below: We are writing in support of Governor Rick Snyder’s request on March 13, 2018 for the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) to conduct damage assessments for eight Lower Peninsula counties in the State of Michigan as a result of severe flooding damage. This would be a critical next step for a physical and economic disaster declaration. In mid-February, heavy rainfall and snow melt caused historic flooding and widespread damage. In addition to Arenac, Barry, Berrien, Ingham, Kalamazoo, Kent, Newaygo, and St. Joseph Counties, the request also includes contiguous counties of Allegan, Bay, Branch, Calhoun, Cass, Clinton, Eaton, Gladwin, Ionia, Iosco, Jackson, Lake, Livingston, Mason, Mecosta, Montcalm, Muskegon, Oceana, Ogemaw, Osceola, Ottawa, Shiawassee, Van Buren, and Washtenaw. This request comes after Governor Snyder declared a state of disaster for 17 counties and two cities on March 12, 2018. This action made available all state resources in cooperation with local response and recovery efforts in the disaster area. Specifically, the declaration authorizes local governments to have access to state emergency resources, including grants of up to $100,000 for reimbursement of local response costs. In addition, it allows the Michigan State Police, Emergency Management and Homeland Security Division, to coordinate damage recovery efforts and work with local emergency management agencies in the areas affected by the flooding. The Governor is requesting the SBA disaster assistance program make low-interest loans available to eligible residents and businesses that extend beyond the capacity of the state and local governments. These loans are essential to give the Michiganders affected by significant flood damage the opportunity to recover and replace real estate, personal property, machinery and equipment, inventory, and business assets that were damaged or destroyed. We urge you to conduct damage assessments, and to provide the resources necessary so the residents and business owners of these communities can begin to rebuild from these historic floods. Thank you for your consideration of our request.
03.13.2018	U.S. Reps. Fred Upton, R-Michigan; John Faso, R-New York; Debbie Dingell, D-Michigan; and Elizabeth Esty, D-Connecticut; today led a bipartisan letter, signed by 28 Members of Congress, to leaders of the House Appropriations Committee pushing for more funding and resources to address mental health issues. “Important reforms in the 21st Century Cures Act made mental health services more affordable, provided new funding authorizations for research programs to develop best practices in mental health treatment that are backed by science, and established new federal grants to increase the number of mental health providers nationwide. In addition, the legislation pushed states to develop early intervention for psychosis and serious mental illness, which is needed for the best hopes of recovery. However, patients and families have yet to benefit from many of these programs due to our government operating on continuing resolutions resulting in the inability to provide funding without completion of the Fiscal Year 2018 appropriation bills,” the lawmakers’ letter reads. “As such, we respectfully request that as you are completing the FY 2018 appropriations package, you include necessary funding to ensure the that the programs established in the 21st Century Cures Act achieve the success that was intended by Congress….As our nation faces many challenges, we remain committed to ensuring better identification, treatment and care for those facing mental health issues,” the letter concludes. The full text of the letter can be found below or online here. With the enactment of the 21st Century Cures Act in December of 2016, the first major reform to our mental health care system in decades was achieved. Bipartisan efforts led to multiple provisions that will improve mental health care for millions of Americans and help ensure earlier intervention and better treatment options for individuals and families that need help. Important reforms in the 21st Century Cures Act made mental health services more affordable, provided new funding authorizations for research programs to develop best practices in mental health treatment that are backed by science, and established new federal grants to increase the number of mental health providers nationwide. In addition, the legislation pushed states to develop early intervention for psychosis and serious mental illness, which is needed for the best hopes of recovery. However, patients and families have yet to benefit from many of these programs due to our government operating on continuing resolutions resulting in the inability to provide funding without completion of the Fiscal Year 2018 appropriation bills. To date, many of these programs have yet to receive any funding. As such, we respectfully request that as you are completing the FY 2018 appropriations package, you include necessary funding to ensure the that the programs established in the 21st Century Cures Act achieve the success that was intended by Congress. These programs can be found in the attached Congressional Research Service report. As our nation faces many challenges, we remain committed to ensuring better identification, treatment and care for those facing mental health issues. Thank you for your help and support in this endeavor.
03.12.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced two new investments in Van Buren County totaling $1.55 million. “These new rural development loans will directly help Southwest Michigan families. Affordable housing is critical for those looking to put down roots in our region. More than just basic shelter, the interior and exterior of the residential units will be beautified and made energy efficient – a real home for residents and their families. We’re all excited to see these projects move forward and the positive impact they will have on community pride.” The first USDA Rural Development announcement is for Lawrence Downs in Lawrence, Michigan. The rural development loan of $775,000.00 is to be used to rehabilitate the inside and outside of a 48-unit family rental property. To learn more click here. The second USDA Rural Development announcement is for Decatur Downs in Decatur, Michigan. The rural development loan of $775,000.00 is to be used to acquire and rehabilitate a 48-unit family project with 31 units eligible for assistance on paying rental fees. To learn more click here.
03.12.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today invited high school student artists living in Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District to take part in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition (CAC). The winner will have his or her piece hang in the U.S. Capitol for a year along with the winners of the award from Congressional districts across the country. The winner, and a guest, will also be invited to attend a reception in Washington, D.C., along with two free tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend the June reception. “The arts are a vital part of our diverse community here in Southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “This is a great opportunity for our young artists to create, innovate, and possibly see their work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for thousands of folks to see up close. I’m looking forward to seeing what our young artists come up with.” Entry forms for the CAC can be found on Upton’s website here, or at his Kalamazoo District Office located at 350 E. Michigan Ave., Suite 130. The CAC competition is the Sixth Congressional District is being held in conjunction with the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts High School Area Show, an annual juried art exhibition with slightly different requirements. Information about the area show, awards, and prizes can be found here. Cami Hoogstraten of Otsego captured the 2017 CAC Award with her piece, a digital drawing of a Native American Dancer.
03.08.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined 107 members of Congress in sending a letter to President Donald J. Trump reinforcing the need to take action against China and other unfair trading partners while expressing concerns that broad tariffs could harm the Michigan economy. “We should have targeted tariffs to address specific unfair trading practices in a way that minimizes negative consequences for Michigan jobs, manufacturers, and consumers,” said Upton. You can read the full letter online here or below: We are writing to express deep concern about the prospect of broad, global tariffs on aluminum and steel imports. Because tariffs are taxes that make U.S. businesses less competitive and U.S. consumers poorer, any tariffs that are imposed should be designed to address specific distortions caused by unfair trade practices in a targeted way while minimizing negative consequences on American businesses and consumers. We were privileged to partner closely with you and your administration to develop and pass the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Your leadership on these tax cuts, in combination with your regulatory reforms, have done so much to increase the competitiveness of U.S. companies and restore the United States’ position as the best place in the world to do business. We are convinced that the benefits of these tax cuts are only beginning, and we look forward to building on this great success as the benefits continue to spread to U.S. workers and job creators. But adding new taxes in the form of broad tariffs would undermine this remarkable progress. If you do impose tariffs, key elements are necessary to minimize negative consequences. First, any relief should be narrow, excluding all fairly traded products and all products that do not pose a national security threat. Second, a robust exclusion process should be announced at the outset that allows U.S. companies to petition for and promptly obtain duty-free access for imports that are unavailable from U.S. sources or otherwise present extenuating circumstances. Third, existing contracts to purchase aluminum or steel should be grandfathered to allow duty-free imports and avoid disrupting the operation and finances of projects that are already budgeted and underway. Fourth, the effects of this remedy on our economy should be reviewed and reconsidered on a short-term basis to determine if a different approach would better serve the interests of our American workers, job creators, and consumers. We support your resolve to address distortions caused by China’s unfair practices, and we are committed to acting with you and our trading partners on meaningful and effective action. But we urge you to reconsider the idea of broad tariffs to avoid unintended negative consequences to the U.S. economy and its workers. We are eager to work with you in pursuing a workable, targeted approach that achieves our shared goal.
02.28.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-Michigan, and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Michigan, today announced they have been named Co-Chairs of the bipartisan Working Group on Response to Parkland Shooting. The working group exists as part of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, of which they are both members. “We all share in the heartbreak from the senseless tragedy in Florida,” said Upton. “Congresswoman Dingell and I are committed to finding common-ground in this heated debate. We both have been meeting directly with our local law enforcement officials, parents, teachers, students, gun owners, and other folks to discuss common-sense, bipartisan solutions. As co-chairs of this new working group we will spend the coming days and weeks continuing our productive work. We owe it to our constituents to try.” “We all have a responsibility to ensure our students feel safe at school,” said Dingell. “Following the horrific shooting in Parkland and the wave of gun violence across this country, we cannot afford to go to our corners and have the same politically-charged conversation that gets us nowhere. Congressman Upton and I have been meeting in our communities with law enforcement, prosecutors, mental health experts, the ACLU, students, teachers, parents, and other stakeholders to find real solutions to the gun violence epidemic. We will continue this productive, inclusive approach as co-chairs of this new working group so we can turns ideas into action that keep our children safe.” The Problem Solvers Caucus is a bipartisan group in Congress comprised of 48 members – equally divided between Republicans and Democrats – who are committed to forging bipartisan cooperation on key issues. They are led by co-chairs U.S. Rep. Tom Reed, R-New York, and U.S. Rep. Josh Gottheimer, D-New York.
02.27.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance H.R. 1865, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act (FOSTA), by a bipartisan 388 to 25 vote. “Online sex trafficking is a heinous crime that tragically occurs on a daily basis. Enough,” said Upton. “This legislation will provide news tools for our law enforcement officials to prosecute criminal websites that knowingly facilitate illegal prostitution and sex trafficking and allow victims to keep much-needed restitution. This will make a real difference. I was proud to stand with my colleagues – Republicans and Democrats alike – to take much-needed action against online sex trafficking. We must continue to work together on this vitally important issue.” “We greatly appreciate Rep. Upton’s support for this important bill so that victims of this horrific crime can seek restitution from their traffickers and see justice served,” said Sara Morley-La Croix, Founder and Chair of the Kalamazoo Anti-Human Trafficking Coalition. “This is a critical step in the right direction as we continue the fight against sex trafficking herein Kalamazoo and across the country. We cannot let up.” H.R. 1865, creates a new federal anti-trafficking law to specifically target bad-actor websites that have engaged in the promotion or facilitation of prostitution yet escaped criminal and civil liability. Under current law, interactive computer services, i.e. those that enable or provide access by multiple users to a computer server, are not treated as the publisher or speaker of information provided by another information content provider. This immunity has barred civil challenge even when courts find that the interactive computer service has tailored its website to facilitate sex trafficking. H.R. 1865 is supported by groups including Concerned Women for America, Facebook, the National Center for Missing and Exploiting Children, Trafficking in America Task Force, the U.S. Institute Against Human Trafficking and more.
02.23.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined 17 colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in writing a letter to House Speaker Paul D. Ryan urging immediate floor consideration for H.R. 4477, the FIX NICS Act. Upton has long-supported robust background checks including voting for the 1994 Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act which established the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) as well as the 2008 NICS Improvement Act which strengthened this critical tool. Upton released the following statement: “As I sat down just this week with our local law enforcement officials they spoke directly to the importance of robust background checks and I couldn’t agree more. Guns must be kept out of the hands of dangerous, unstable individuals. I’ll continue to work with colleagues on both sides of the aisle on common-sense solutions to gun violence such as banning Bump Stocks, prohibiting those on the terrorist watch lists from purchasing guns, and improving the background check system to close the system’s loopholes.” The leaders write: In the wake of the deadly mass shooting at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, calls for Congress to step up and revise the nation’s existing gun laws have been renewed. To this end, we write today to respectfully request immediate consideration of H.R. 4477, the “Fix NICS Act of 2017,” when Congress returns for legislative business next week. This bipartisan and bicameral, common-sense legislation would incentivize states as well as federal departments and agencies to accurately and promptly submit information and records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). The Fix NICS was proposed by the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate late last year following the mass shooting at the First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, Texas, where 26 people were killed and 20 others injured by a former U.S. Air Force member with a history of domestic violence. The U.S. Air Force had failed to submit the shooter’s criminal history to the FBI as required. H.R. 4477, the Fix NICS Act would greatly improve the sharing of mental health and criminal record information between state and local agencies and the federal background check database. It has broad bipartisan support in both the House and Senate. Let us pass this legislation next week and take a small but important step toward making our country safer from gun violence. Read the letter online here.
02.21.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today recognized the National Association of Police Athletic League, Inc. (NPAL) which has awarded $39,600 to Police Athletics and Activities League in support of NPAL Mentoring Program. This grant will provide funding to facilitate NPAL’s mentoring programs in South Haven to keep kids safe and prevent youth delinquency. The grant comes as a part of the Department of Justice Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention’s (OJJDP) national effort to strengthen, expand, and implement youth mentoring activates in order to improve the lives of millions of young Americans. “This grant will directly benefit young adults right here in Southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “By fostering these relationships now we can build better long-term dialogue between our law enforcement officers and youth in our communities. NPAL is a long-time leader in engaging kids, cops, and communities and we’re all happy to see this grant money coming to South Haven.” “There has never been a more important time to develop strong relationships between youth and law enforcement in communities across the country,” said Jeff Hood, Executive Director of NPAL. “Through positive mentoring relationships, law enforcement officers are better able to aid in supporting the needs of youth in their communities and youth begin to see officers as role models and advocates for their futures. For over 100 years, the Police Athletic/Activities Leagues have been the world’s leader in building strong youth and law enforcement relationships and we are excited to continue our partnership with OJJDP to bring these important programs to so many communities nationally.” The goal of NPAL Mentoring Programs is to increase positive relationships between youth and law enforcement. NPAL partners directly with police departments and community-based entities to bring together youth and law enforcement around topics such as drug abuse prevention, career and job readiness, community service, public speaking, cyber security, and technology-based education. Learn more about NPAL here.
02.16.2018	– U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Michigan, today introduced legislation to address the opioid epidemic by spurring urgently needed research on new non-addictive pain medications. Twenty-five million Americans suffer from pain every day, and it is essential that non-addictive medications are available to them. H.R. 5002, the Advancing Cutting-Edge (ACE) Research Act provides the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with new, flexible authorities to conduct innovative research on ways to prevent, treat and cure diseases, including vital research to respond to public health threats like the opioid epidemic. “Opioid abuse and addiction is tearing through families and communities here in Michigan and across the entire country,” said Upton. “We’ve taken concrete steps to address this heartbreaking epidemic with solutions such as the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act and the 21st Century Cures Act but clearly more work remains. This bipartisan bill will help those in need by giving the National Institutes of Health more tools and flexibility to support research on new, non-addictive painkiller alternatives and other scientific advances that will help respond to the crisis. Opioid abuse and addiction doesn’t cherry-pick Republicans or Democrats. It touches us all. It’s going to take a full-team effort, and working across party lines, to finally solve this.” “The opioid epidemic is ravaging families in Michigan and across this country,” said Dingell. “It is critical that we come together – Democrats and Republicans – to stem this public health crisis while ensuring that those with very real medical needs continue to have access to necessary medication. This legislation does exactly that by expanding NIH authority to innovate and partner with new entities conducting cutting-edge medical research. By developing new non-addictive painkillers and pursuing other scientific advances, we can help prevent addiction from taking hold of families in the first place, combat this epidemic and save lives.” Developing new non-addictive pain medications is essential to combating the opioid epidemic. During Congressional hearings Dr. Francis Collins, Director of the NIH, requested the agency be given more flexibility, known as other transaction authority (OTA), so the agency could better partner with innovative companies doing research to address the opioid epidemic and other public health threats. Under the ACE Research Act, the NIH Director will be able to more quickly support research on new, non-addictive pain killers and other emerging technologies that can offer hope to those suffering from an opioid addiction. Senators Lamar Alexander (TN) and Patty Murray (WA), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, have introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate (S. 2406). According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), overdose deaths involving prescription opioids were five times higher in 2016 than 1999. From 1999 to 2016, more than 200,000 people have died in the U.S. from overdoses related to prescription opioids.
02.14.2018	A longtime advocate for Lake Michigan harbors, U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the news that the President’s Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Proposal will include robust funding for Great Lakes Navigation Operations and Maintenance. “This is great news for our corner of the state. This funding is critical towards dredging, operations, and maintenance of the Benton Harbor/St. Joseph Harbor and the Holland Harbor. Ensuring our harbors remain open and ready for business is essential to jobs and economic activity up-and-down Southwest Michigan. I’m pleased to see the president’s budget proposal includes funding for these important infrastructure projects. From good-paying local jobs and commercial shipping, to the positive impact on our recreation industry – our harbors must remain properly maintained.” According to the FY 2019 Budget Proposal, Great Lakes Navigation Operations and Maintenance is to receive $108.7M, a $2.5M increase over last year. Holland Harbor is to receive $600,000 and Benton Harbor/St. Joseph Harbor is to receive $1.5M.
02.12.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the Trump administration released their Fiscal Year 2019 budget which cut funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative: “Michigan deserves better than this. The health of our Great Lakes must be a higher priority. While this budget proposal – like all other presidential budget proposals – is merely a blueprint it does set the administration’s priorities. It’s clear that when it comes to the Great Lakes our priorities are at odds with the administration. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative is a vital tool used to boost our Great Lakes both environmentally and economically. Just like last year, I will fight alongside colleagues on both sides of the aisle to promote, strengthen, and preserve our Great Lakes.” Upton has a long history of fighting for the Great Lakes. Learn more here.
02.09.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives advanced the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018: "This two-year budget deal properly funds our military and gives our soldiers a pay raise. It makes critical investments in America’s veterans, medical research, community health centers, disaster relief, and infrastructure. Of critical importance to Michigan, it also furthers our efforts to combat opioid abuse and drug addiction. No bipartisan deal such as this is perfect - we came together and both sides made compromises. Folks in Michigan and across the country are sick of the dysfunction, it's time to get our government working again for the people we serve. Today's two-year bipartisan budget agreement is a great first step." The Bipartisan Budget Act includes several provisions championed by Upton and important to Michigan: $2 billion in funding over two years for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). $6 billion over two years to bolster the ongoing fight against opioid addiction and substance abuse by funding grants, prevention programs, and law enforcement efforts in vulnerable communities across the country. $20 billion new investment in America’s infrastructure. $90 billion in emergency supplemental appropriations for disaster relief efforts for communities crippled by hurricanes in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Florida and Texas. Includes a package of bipartisan Medicare provisions, known as Medicare extenders, and funding for community health centers. Includes an additional four years of authorization for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Provides for America’s veterans by helping reduce the maintenance backlog at the Veterans Administration. Lifts the debt limit through March 1, 2019.
02.07.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, recently joined 17 colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney and Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Army (Civil Works) R.D. James requesting sufficient funding for the Great Lakes Coastal Resiliency Study (GLCRS) in the Fiscal Year 2019 budget. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers proposed this study to coordinate a strategy across the Great Lakes states to efficiently and effectively manage and protect the Great Lakes coastlines. “The Great Lakes Coastal Resiliency Study would be another important tool in our toolbox as we work to protect our Great Lakes and coastal communities such as New Buffalo and St. Joseph,” said Upton. “Hopefully this strong showing of bipartisan support will push the administration in a positive direction. Whether it’s coastal erosion, high water levels, storms, or other occurrences, it’s critical that we have a full understanding of how these issues impact our Great Lakes – for both economic and environmental reasons. We will continue to work on a bipartisan basis to implement common-sense policies that protect and preserve our Great Lakes.” Upton has previously led efforts to address severe erosion in New Buffalo and St. Joseph. The President’s FY19 budget request is expected to be released sometime in February. To read a copy of the letter please click here.
02.06.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the passing of former U.S. Rep. Joe Knollenberg: “There was never a truer gentleman than Joe Knollenberg. Joe was so well respected on both sides of the aisle as Michigan’s go to guy on the key Appropriations Committee. Joe was always smiling, with a kind heart, and a voice of civility and respect. My wife Amey and I are sending our thoughts and prayers to Joe’s entire family, and in particular his amazing wife Sandie.”
01.30.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after three affordable housing projects in Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District were awarded Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) during the most recent funding round. Four Flags Plaza Apartments, in Niles, is set to receive $1,259,068 in credits, Selinon Park, in Portage, is set to receive $1,406,000 in credits, and the Village of Kalamazoo Apartments, in Kalamazoo, is set to receive $1,470,782 in credits. “These new Low Income Housing Tax Credits will directly help our communities rehabilitate and build more affordable housing for Southwest Michigan families. Affordable housing is a critical step for countless families looking to put roots down in Michigan. This is welcome news for our area and will also spur further investment – creating jobs and helping our economy. These tax credits are an important resource for developers looking to build. We’re all excited to see these projects completed and the positive impact they will have for vulnerable families.” The LIHTC is an affordable housing production program that leverages public-private partnerships between the Federal government, state allocating agencies, and private sector developers. Background on Four Flags Plaza Apartments: Four Flags Plaza Apartments is the rehabilitation of an existing 88 unit apartment development. The Low Income Housing Tax Credits will assist in providing the funding to make the necessary updates to preserve the units as affordable housing. The development received an award of Low Income Housing Tax Credit from the Michigan State Housing Development Authority in the annual amount of $1,259,068. This award will leverage approximately $11.6 million of private money towards the preservation of affordable housing in Niles. Background on Village of Kalamazoo Apartments: Village of Kalamazoo Apartments is the rehabilitation of an existing 165 unit apartment development. 159 of the 165 units will be designated as affordable housing units. The Low Income Housing Tax Credits will assist in providing the funding to make the necessary updates to preserve the units as affordable housing. The development received an award of Low Income Housing Tax Credit from the Michigan State Housing Development Authority in the annual amount of $1,470,782. This award will leverage approximately $12.9 million of private money towards the preservation of affordable housing in Kalamazoo. Background on Selinon Park: Selinon Park will consist of the new construction of 75 units of rental housing in three buildings. 66 of the 75 units will be designated as affordable housing units and 23 of the 66 affordable units will be dedicated for permanent supportive housing. The development received an award of Low Income Housing Tax Credit from the Michigan State Housing Development Authority in the annual amount of $1,406,000. This award will leverage approximately $13 million of private money towards the creation of affordable housing in Portage. For more information, please click here.
01.29.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, tonight applauded the passage of S. 534 the Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse and Safe Sport Authorization Act of 2017. This bipartisan legislation advanced by a vote of 406 to 3. Upton released the following statement: “Our young athletes should be focused on training, competing, and winning – not sexual predators or heinous acts of abuse. The crimes committed by Dr. Larry Nassar are heartbreaking and intolerable. We must ensure something like this can never happen again. Unfortunately, under current law, amateur athletic governing bodies are not required to promptly report allegations of sexual abuse to law enforcement authorities. This is unacceptable. This bill will ensure when reports of abuse are made, they are investigated fully. This bipartisan bill will help keep our amateur athletes safe and it’s time to send it to the president’s desk. Time’s up for those wishing to prey on our young athletes.” Background: The Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse and Safe Sport Authorization Act of 2017 amends the Child Abuse Act of 1990 to require athletic governing bodies, such as USA Gymnastics, and individuals who interact with our amateur athletes to report any suspected abuse. Any individual who interacts with amateur athletes would be required to report suspected child abuse, including sexual abuse, within 24 hours. If they fail to do so, they will be held accountable by law. This legislation also designates the United States Center for Safe Sport, an entity created last year by the U.S. Olympic Committee that is responsible for overseeing organizational reforms, to develop, implement, and enforce policies and mandatory training for national governing bodies and their members. The House passed similar legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. Susan Brooks, R-Indiana, in May. Upton previously joined colleagues U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Michigan, and U.S. Rep. Tim Walberg, R-Michigan, in calling for a Congressional investigation into the Nassar case. The House Energy and Commerce Committee later announced a bipartisan investigation into sexual abuse in organized sports.
01.26.2018	Today, U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-Michigan, and U.S. Rep. Jan Schakowsky, D-Illinois, announced they are to join the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus. “When it comes to climate change we must take an economically realistic and pragmatic approach,” said Upton. “Joining the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus is a tremendous opportunity to work across the aisle towards those goals. Pursuing an ‘all-of-the-above’ energy strategy that protects our environment, preserves our Great Lakes, and ensures energy stays affordable for Michigan families has always been a focus. We’ve also been doing solid work at the Energy and Commerce Committee. We’ve taken legislative action to lower emissions, keep electricity and energy prices low, and supported renewable hydropower and natural gas projects. We must continue to promote climate strategies that champion conservation, innovation, and competition.” “Climate change is a real and growing threat. Around the country and across the globe, communities have already started to feel the ravaging effects of an increasingly more extreme climate,” said Schakowsky. “The United States has a duty to face this problem head-on, taking bold action to combat what I see as one of the most crucial issues of our time. That’s why I’m so pleased today to announce that I will be joining the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus, where I will continue my work to protect our environment and keep our Great Lakes clean.” For more information on the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus please click here.
01.24.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the president signed into law a Continuing Resolution (CR) that includes a six-year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). “Here in Michigan, CHIP-funded programs serve approximately 100,000 children. This historic extension – the longest and most generous in the programs history – is a big win for these kids and their families. CHIP is more than just a critical public health initiative, it’s a promise we make to the most vulnerable among us that they will be served and taken care of no matter what. Getting this extension signed into law delivers on that promise.”
01.23.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the case of Dr. Lukasz Niec: “This case, and others like it around the country, tug at the heart and soul of our conscience. It is why we must legislatively fix our broken immigration system. Our focus should be on removing those who threaten our country or have committed grave offenses – not productive members of our communities. I raised Dr. Niec’s situation with dozens of colleagues and in our bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus meeting this past weekend. It’s clear we must work together on these issues now more than ever. “The Privacy Act of 1974 prohibits our office from divulging details of our work on this ongoing situation. However, Dr. Niec has now signed a privacy release form that does allow us to work with his legal team in a constructive way.” “The anxiety and fear that Dr. Niec and his family must be experiencing is unfathomable. He is clearly a much-respected member of our community and we will continue to work with all involved on a resolution.”
01.22.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his House colleagues in voting to, again, fund the government. Upton released the following statement: “Finally this unnecessary government shutdown is over. As a member of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus we spent the weekend working to come up with a solution. Tonight, we reauthorized the critical CHIP program for six years, the longest reauthorization in the program’s history, and we repealed the Medical Device Tax which is so important for employers here in Southwest Michigan. As we move forward, we’ll also need to come up with a bipartisan resolution for DACA folks. Hopefully today will be the basis for much-needed bipartisan cooperation ahead.”
01.19.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined the majority of his House colleagues in voting to advance legislation to fund the government and to extend the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for six years – the longest such extension in the programs history. Upton released the following statement: “CHIP is a critically important public health initiative that serves the most vulnerable among us. It helps tens of thousands of children in Michigan alone. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to extend CHIP with all due speed. If not, it could be disastrous for our communities. Children and families are counting on us. Here in the House we made a promise, and we delivered.” In 2015, Upton helped broker the bipartisan, bicameral deal that last reauthorized the CHIP program. Over the course of the past year, he has worked tirelessly to reauthorize CHIP at the Energy and Commerce Committee and on the House floor. Click HERE to watch Upton deliver a statement in support of CHIP funding on the House Floor.
01.17.2018	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today made the following comments after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) listed two Southwest Michigan Superfund Sites as part of their Redevelopment Focus List. This is an initial list of Superfund National Priorities (NPL) sites with greatest expected redevelopment and commercial potential. The two sites are Aircraft Components in Benton Harbor and the Allied Paper/Kalamazoo River site in Kalamazoo. “This is good news for Benton Harbor and Kalamazoo,” said Upton. “While we gather further information on what, specifically, this will mean, it’s still important to recognize the significance of our local Superfund sites earning this new designation. It shows there is a clear priority to expedite work on these Superfund sites for the betterment of our economy and for commercial development. I’ll continue to work with our local folks as well as state and national leaders as we finish up our efforts on these Superfund sites.” For more information on the Superfund National Priorities please click here. For more background on Aircraft Components in Benton Harbor site please click here. For more background on the Allied Paper/Kalamazoo River site please click here.
12.22.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released a list of the top seven wins for constituents this year. Below is the list along with comments from Upton on why each is important to folks in Michigan. Win #1: Top-notch constituent services. Upton on its importance: “My top priority as a Member of Congress is helping folks in Southwest Michigan solve problems big and small. With nearly 500 meetings and events directly with constituents we were able to productively discuss important issues and I’m able to get valuable feedback on the issues of the day. My office was also able to assist more than 1,200 Southwest Michigan residents with casework issues. We also focused on common-sense policy solutions that achieve real results for folks here at home.” Win #2: Implementation of 21st Century Cures Act. Upton on its importance: “When we started crafting 21st Century Cures we began with one goal in mind: helping patients and their families. Throughout this year we saw that is exactly what our landmark bill is doing. By providing more resources to the National Institutes of Health and Food and Drug Administration, as well as reforming our mental health system and providing funding for the opioids fight, we are delivering on our promise. Cures will continue to play an important role in the national health care conversation in the years ahead. Count on it.” Win #3: Pro-growth tax reform for the first time since 1986. Upton on its importance: “This legislation, soon to be signed into law, will deliver historic tax relief for Michigan workers, families, and job creators. By overhauling our tax code for the first time in 31 years we will deliver more jobs, increase paychecks, and make the tax code simpler and fairer for all Americans.” Win #4: Help on the way in opioids fight. Upton on its importance: “Federal grants to fight the opioids epidemic, made possible by the 21st Century Cures Act, will directly help those in need here in Southwest Michigan and across the country. We fought hard to include these resources and now, we’re delivering. To those in the midst of this fight: Help is on the way.” Win #5: Signed into law: Bipartisan bill to reauthorize Food and Drug Administration. Upton on its importance: “Workers, job creators, and patients here in Southwest Michigan depend on this critical public health legislation and we came through. It’s a win-win for our economy and for patients across the country.” Win #6: Great news for the Great Lakes. Upton on its importance: “Our Great Lakes face many challenges and it’s more important than ever to work in a bipartisan manner to ensure the health and beauty of these natural resources can be enjoyed by all for generations to come. That’s exactly what we did in 2017 and that focus will continue into the New Year.” Win #7: National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) signed into law. Upton on its importance: “America faces grave threats from terrorist organizations and rogue nations alike. Specifically, this year’s NDAA boosts investment in our military cybersecurity capabilities, which will help our Battle Creek Cyber Command. We should always looks for ways to work together to bolster our national security, modernize our military, and make our country more safe and secure.” See even more legislative wins from the past year here. Stay tuned for more end-of-the-year content from Upton’s office.
12.22.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released a new report titled “2017: The Year in Review and A Look Ahead” which outlines policy initiatives his office tackled in the last year and sets priorities for the new year ahead in 2018. Upton also released the following statement: “2017 was a transformational year but for me, my focus never wavered from local initiatives such as helping constituents with problems big and small, and on bipartisan policies that create jobs and improve our economy. As we look ahead to 2018, we must continue our work on advancing an agenda that focuses on items folks in Michigan care most about. We have our work cut out for us. But I believe that by working together – Republicans and Democrats – we can and we will solve many of the pressing issues before us.” The report breaks down 10 specific policy areas in which Upton has been a bipartisan leader: Leadership and results for Southwest Michigan, jobs and the economy, 21st Century Cures and health care, national security, the Great Lakes, pro-growth tax reform, the opioids epidemic, immigration, energy, and education. Click HERE to read the report. Click HERE to see Upton’s photos of the year. Click HERE to read Upton’s top success stories of the year. Click HERE for the must-read op-eds from Upton this year.
12.21.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released a list of his top op-ed pieces published in 2017: “Self-driving cars are the next frontier of innovation and safety” via The Hill with U.S. Senator Gary Peters, D-Michigan | February 8, 2017 Key excerpt: As the birthplace of the automotive industry, Michigan is a well-known home to innovative suppliers and manufacturers that make our cars and trucks safe, more efficient, and more affordable. But Michigan also has a dense nexus of engineering talent, automotive research and development centers, and universities that are developing cutting-edge vehicle innovations. “Help is on the way in opioid epidemic fight” via the Herald Palladium | May 5, 2017 Key excerpt: The statistics are as startling as they are heartbreaking: The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) estimates more than 33,000 Americans died from opioid abuse in 2015, including nearly 2,000 from Michigan…sadly, these numbers continue to surge. This is why I was so pleased when the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced last week the first round of grants to help states and territories combat this epidemic…here in Michigan we will be on the receiving end of more than $16 million in grant money. These federal funding grants were made available as part of our bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act that President Obama signed into law at the end of 2016. We fought hard to include this $1 billion in total funding to aid in this public health crisis. Now we’re delivering. “FDA user fees support medicine and Michigan Jobs” via the Detroit News | August 25, 2017 Key excerpt: Beyond the public health benefits, this legislation is critical to thousands of jobs, particularly here in Michigan. We are home to medical device maker Stryker Corp., the generic drug maker side at Perrigo Co., Pfizer Inc.’s largest manufacturing site, and dozens of smaller biotech and manufacturing firms…folks at these firms have told me it is vital for this legislation to move forward to protect these local jobs as well as patients who will benefit from the new therapies the FDA helps get to market. “In Harvey’s wake, energy security legislation needed now more than ever” via The Hill with Valerie Brader, Executive Director, Michigan Agency for Energy | September 6, 2017 Key excerpt: Infrastructure failures or successful cyberattacks could mean a devastating interruption of energy services that could cripple our economy. A grid disruption could mean gas stations with no power to fuel our vehicles, factories with no electricity to run machinery, or families with no way to charge cell phones so they can check on loved ones. That’s why it’s imperative we all work together – in Congress and at the state level – to make sure our energy infrastructure is reliable and resilient. We can start to assure the American people that this is a top priority of state and federal officials by passing the energy preparedness legislation that already has overwhelming support in the U.S. House. “Michigan deserves tax reform” via the Detroit News with U.S. Reps. Tim Walberg, Bill Huizenga, John Moolenaar, Dave Trott, Mike Bishop, Jack Bergman and Paul Mitchell | October 14, 2017 Key excerpt: The last time our tax code was updated was 1986. Since then, it has become a complicated mess with too many special-interest loopholes. We have all heard countless stories from constituents impacted by a tax code that is outdated, unwieldy, and too often rewards special interests at the cost of regular folks. It has become abundantly clear that our outdated tax code is a major drag on our economy and on Michigan families struggling to get by. “Why a fix for DACA is imperative” via the Herald Palladium | December 4, 2017 Key excerpt: Let’s be clear: For these young men and women, the United States is their home. They speak English, they’ve been raised in our neighborhoods, attended our schools, served in our military, worked in our communities, and have clean criminal records…This is clearly an important issue. Lives hang in the balance. These aspiring Americans deserve to be treated with compassion and fairness. “One year later – why 21st Century Cures still matters” via Roll Call with U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colorado | December 12, 2017 Key excerpt: When we started the process of crafting 21st Century Cures – or Cures – four years ago, we began with one goal in mind: helping patients and their families. We were both inspired to act after hearing from folks in the research community as well as patients, families, and advocates who all told us about the need for modernization and more resources at the National Institutes of Health and the Food and Drug Administration so that the United States could remain the worldwide leader in medical innovation and find the next generation of medical cures and clues. See more op-eds from 2017 here. Stay tuned for more end-of-the-year content from Upton’s office.
12.21.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today sent a letter, alongside colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives, to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt in regards to the recent news that the EPA intends to prioritize certain cleanups under the Superfund program. Among the programs the EPA has targeted for “immediate, intense attention” is the Allied Paper/Kalamazoo River Superfund site. Upton previously released a statement in support of the new designation. The letter is meant as a follow up to provide more clarification and transparency about the process and whether additional federal resources will be made available. In addition to Upton, the letter is signed by U.S. Rep. Greg Walden, R-Oregon, and U.S. Rep. John Shimkus, R-Illinois. Upton also released the following statement: “The goal here is to ensure an efficient cleanup at the Allied Paper/Kalamazoo River Superfund site in full consultation and cooperation with our local leaders. While the new priority designation is good news and a good start, we need further information. Our work continues on this important Kalamazoo priority.” The full text of the letter can be found here or below: Dear Administrator Pruitt: The Energy and Commerce Committee has oversight responsibility for the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). While we appreciate that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has indicated an intent to prioritize cleanup under the Superfund program, we write to express concern regarding the list of Superfund sites that EPA has targeted for “immediate, intense attention,” which EPA released on Friday December 8, 2017. During the Environment Subcommittee hearing the previous day Members specifically asked you about this list, and despite many of the sites included being of particular concern to Committee Members, we did not receive any indication from you that these sites would be included. The Superfund cleanup program already involves a significant amount of process, and it is not clear how creating another list of sites will expedite cleanups. Furthermore, it is not clear how the sites on the “Top-21 List” (the List) were selected. The documentation published with the List states that “these sites have site-specific issues that will benefit from the Administrator’s direct engagement” and that “these are sites requiring timely resolution of specific issues to expedite cleanup and redevelopment efforts.” The information published with the List indicates that there is no commitment of additional funding associated with a site’s inclusion on the list. We question what it will mean for sites to be on the List and whether the potential stigma of being included on a list targeted for “immediate, intense action” with no additional funding, will help or hinder the progress at these sites. In light of our concern in this area, we request that you provide the Committee with the following additional information: 1. Regarding how the decision was made to list the twenty-one sites, please explain what it means that you will provide “direct engagement,” and how you think that your direct involvement at these sites will expedite cleanup and redevelopment efforts. 2. Who was consulted in making the decision about what sites to put on the List? We request that you provide the Committee with detailed information regarding the process undertaken, identify when the decision was made to include each of these twenty-one sites on the List, and identify who was consulted in making the decision about which sites should be included. a. Specifically, did EPA consult the States in which the sites are located? b. The potentially responsible parties at these sites? c. The Community Advisory Groups associated with these sites?
12.19.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his colleagues in the U.S. House in voting to advance the Conference Report for H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act by a vote of 227 to 203. Upton released the following statement: "With this vote, historic tax reform is one step closer to reality. Here’s what our plan does for individuals; it significantly increases the standard deduction, it expands the Child Tax Credit, preserves the Adoption Tax Credit, preserves the mortgage interest deduction, expands the medical expense deduction, continues the charitable contribution deduction, and more. We lower the corporate tax rate to 21 percent – down from the highest rate in the industrialized world and eliminate incentives to move Michigan jobs overseas. We also deliver significant tax relief to small businesses. At the end of the day this will be a big win for Michigan middle class families and our economy. After 31 years, it’s time to get this done.” Local economic organizations support this tax reform opportunity as do national organizations such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Business Roundtable, National Association of Manufacturers, National Federation of Independent Business, National Association of Home Builders, and more. Learn more about what is in the tax reform package HERE. Learn more about Upton’s work on tax reform HERE.
12.15.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after signing the House-Senate Conference Committee report on H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: The Conference Committee’s task was to merge two bills into a better one. I’m pleased to say on a number of issues we prevailed. We deliver a tax cut to the middle class while protecting important deductions like the Medical Expense Deduction, and we lower the tax burden on American businesses while eliminating incentives to move jobs overseas. This is a big win for middle class families and the economy, and I look forward to debate and consideration of the bill next week. We will get this done. Background: Upton was one of nine House lawmakers named to the House-Senate conference committee to iron out differences between the House and Senate tax bills. As chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy, Upton was primarily tasked with negotiating energy provisions related to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR). The House and Senate will vote on the bill next week in the hopes of sending it to the president’s desk before Christmas. To read the Conference Committee report click here. To learn more about Upton’s efforts on tax reform click here.
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today alongside U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, released the following video on the one-year anniversary of the 21st Century Cures Act becoming law. Upton and DeGette use the video to highlight some of the most important provisions in the groundbreaking law. Click HERE to watch the video.
12.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after President Trump signed the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) into law: “America faces grave threats from terrorist organizations and rogue nations alike. This is why it’s vitally important we support this bipartisan legislation that provides for our common defense as outlined in the U.S. Constitution. This year’s NDAA also boosts investment in our military cybersecurity capabilities which will help our Battle Creek Cyber Command. It also provides the largest pay raise for our troops in eight years. I am proud to support this bipartisan legislation that will boost our national security, modernize our military, and help make our country more safe and secure.” NOTE: The NDAA enjoys overwhelming bipartisan support. The House vote to go to Conference was 344 to 81 and the Senate vote was 89 to 8.
12.11.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced that the Kalamazoo River Superfund site would be targeted for immediate, intense action: “We’ve been working alongside Kalamazoo leaders for years on this important issue. Everyone involved understands that it is essential that the final remedy protects the health and safety of Kalamazoo residents and allows for the site to be redeveloped and put to good use for the community. With this new priority designation, I am glad to see the Allied Paper/Kalamazoo River site is to receive ‘immediate and intense attention.’ Our Southwest Michigan community is eager to see this property cleaned up and put back to productive use. This new priority designation is certainly welcome news for all involved, particularly those of us who have working diligently on this issue for many years.”
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after being named to serve on the House-Senate conference committee for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “I look forward to being a member of the House-Senate conference committee for this historic tax reform opportunity. We owe it to our constituents to reform the tax code and cut taxes, make it easier for small businesses to grow and create jobs, and lower the astronomically high rate for corporations. We’re full speed ahead on getting this done this year.” Background: As chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy, Upton was named a conferee primarily to negotiate the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) amendment. This amendment authorizes the sale of oil from our SPR as a way to offset the cost of tax cuts in the proposed bill. To learn more about the Conference Committee click here. To learn more about Upton’s efforts on tax reform click here.
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, recently joined 34 colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in writing a letter to House Speaker Paul D. Ryan urging a permanent legislation solution for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients. Read the full letter here or below. Dear Speaker Ryan, We write in support of passing of a permanent legislative solution for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients before the end of the year. DACA recipients – young people brought to America through no fault of their own – are contributing members of our communities and our economy. For many, this is the only country they have ever known. They are American in every way except their immigration status. Since DACA’s inception, the federal government has approved approximately 795,000 initial DACA applications and 924,000 renewals. Since being approved for DACA status, an overwhelming majority of these individuals have enrolled in school, found employment, or have served in the military. Studies have shown that passing legislation to permanently protect these individuals would add hundreds of billions to our country’s gross domestic product (GDP). That is why the business community, universities, and civic leaders alike support a permanent legislative solution. We agree with President Trump that executive action was not the appropriate process for solving this issue, as was done under the previous administration, and we believe Congress should act. We are compelled to act immediately because many DACA recipients are about to lose or have already lost their permits in the wake of the program’s rescission. Not acting is creating understandable uncertainty and anxiety amongst immigrant communities. While we firmly believe Congress must work to address other issues within our broken immigration system, it is imperative that Republicans and Democrats come together to solve this problem now and not wait until next year. We all agree that our border must be enforced, our national security defended, and our broken immigration system reformed, but in this moment, we must address the urgent matter before us in a balanced approach that does not harm valuable sectors of our economy nor the lives of these hard-working young people. We must pass legislation that protects DACA recipients from deportation and gives them the opportunity to apply for a more secured status in our country as soon as possible. Reaching across the aisle to protect DACA recipients before the holidays is the right thing to do.
11.16.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee, today met with Enbridge Vice President Guy Jarvis to discuss the Line 5 pipeline, which runs under the Straits of Mackinac. The meeting focused on the two public letters Upton had previously sent the company. Upton again expressed alarm and deep concern regarding recent reports on gaps in the protective coating on several portions of the pipeline. He also reiterated that a spill would be catastrophic to the Great Lakes and completely unacceptable. Upton specifically requested an in-person review and briefing on Enbridge’s Integrity Management Plan, which is the company’s plan to identify, assess, and mitigate risks to the pipeline in order to reduce the likelihood of impacts on any possible incidents. Upton also stressed the importance of continued coordination between Enbridge, federal officials, and state officials in Michigan. You can find the two public letters to Enbridge here and here.
11.16.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today applauded the passage of landmark tax reform legislation, H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act. “This historic tax reform package will lower individual income tax rates except for the top bracket, simplify the entire code, create jobs, and boost our Southwest Michigan economy,” said Upton. “It will specifically help Michigan middle-class families by increasing the standard deduction and expanding the Child Tax Credit. The current tax code is indefensible. I haven’t met a single person or visited a single small business that thinks the status quo is acceptable. The time for tax reform and relief is now – and we are delivering on our promise. Bottom line: This tax plan will put more money in the pockets of Michigan families and I’m hopeful we can get something to the president’s desk before the end of the year.” “I want to applaud Congressman Upton for helping get this important tax update through the House,” said Chris Heugal, president of the Cornerstone Chamber of Commerce in St. Joseph. “These actions will help improve our local small business community and overall economic environment.” “The State of Michigan has made extraordinary strides to attract business,” added Rob Cleveland, president of Cornerstone Alliance, the economic development agency for St. Joseph. “Today’s passing of the corporate income tax reform legislation through the U.S. House of Representatives makes the country more competitive and will benefit Michigan as we continue to win more industry.” “The greatest force for changing the lives of Americans is jobs,” concluded Ron Kitchens, chief executive officer of Southwest Michigan First, the economic development group in Kalamazoo. “This tax reform will create more and better jobs for Americans and reignite the American dream.” According to a new report from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act will lead to the creation of an additional 29,168 jobs and raise after-tax incomes for Michigan middle-class families by more than $2,000. See more tax reform numbers here. Among many important provisions, the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act: · Lowers individual tax rates to Zero, 12%, 25%, and 35% and maintains the top rate of 39.6%. · Roughly doubles the Standard Deduction – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. · Establishes a new Family Credit – which includes expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 for each child. · Preserves the Adoption Tax Credit and Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit. · Preserves the deduction for charitable contributions and the home mortgage interest deduction and protects the first $10,000 in property tax deductions. · Retains popular retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts · Lowers the corporate tax rate from 35% to 20%. · Reduces the top tax rate on pass through business (small business) to no more than 25%. · Repeals the Alternative Minimum Tax. The Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is supported by groups such as Americans for Tax Reform, National Taxpayer Union, Citizens Against Government Waste, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Association of Manufacturers, Business Roundtable, National Retail Federation, American Trucking Association, Consumer Technology Association, American Farm Bureau Federation, Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council, and more. Learn more about tax reform here.
11.14.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and Republicans in the Michigan Congressional Delegation released the following video to promote efforts in the U.S. House of Representatives to pass H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. This historic legislation, which updates the tax code for the first time since 1986, will benefit Michigan middle-class families by doubling the standard deduction, expanding the Child Tax Credit, and creating more opportunity. Click here to watch the video. In October, the Michigan members also joined forces on an op-ed in the Detroit News highlighting the benefits the tax plan would have on Michigan middle-class families and small businesses. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed out of the Ways and Means Committee on Thursday, and is expected to receive and up or down vote before the full House of Representatives later this week. Find more information and additional resources on tax reform here.
11.14.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting for the Conference Report for the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 by a vote of 356 to 70. “We all must be clear eyed and resolute – our nation faces grave threats from terrorist organizations and rogue nations alike. This is why it’s important to support the National Defense Authorization Act because it delivers on one of our most basic Constitutional duties: Providing for the common defense. Among other important provisions, this NDAA will boost investments in our military’s cybersecurity capabilities, which is welcome news for our Battle Creek Cyber Command. It also provides the largest pay raise for our troops in eight years. I am proud to support this legislation as it will help make our country safer and strengthen our national security and look forward to the president signing it into law. The NDAA enjoys overwhelming bipartisan support. The House vote to go to Conference was 344 to 81 and the Senate vote was 89 to 8.
11.02.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today applauded the introduction of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act, a bold piece of legislation that will overhaul our nation’s tax code for the first time in 31 years. Upton released the following statement: “The time for middle-class and small business tax reform and relief is now,” said Upton. “Our tax code has not been updated since 1986 and it shows. Families pay too much and small businesses are stuck in a tax system that holds them back. A simplified, modernized tax code will lower taxes on low-income and middle-class Michigan families and allow them to keep more of their paychecks. Small businesses will see their tax burden slashed so they can grow and hire more local workers. This plan, which I’m hopeful can be bipartisan, will lower the rates for those who need relief the most, bring jobs back home, and give needed certainty to our job creators right here in Michigan. This is an historic opportunity and I look forward to working with my colleagues to get the job done for Michigan families and businesses who need tax relief now.” “Comprehensive tax reform will encourage the growth of business here in Southwest Michigan, create more jobs, and make it easier for companies large and small to succeed,” said Chris Heugel, President of the Cornerstone Chamber of Commerce. “The proposed reforms on the table are a game-changer that will promote our local businesses and, in turn, enhance the quality of life for all in our communities. We look forward to continued engagement with Congressman Upton and applaud his efforts in advancing these long overdue, common-sense reforms.” “The proposed tax reform is a crucial step in growing the economy in Michigan’s Great Southwest” added Rob Cleveland, President of Cornerstone Alliance. “When companies are considering a new location or expansion, the overall tax climate is always one of the most important aspects. Comprehensive tax reform and a simplified tax code will motivate domestic and foreign-based corporations to maximize their investments here, creating more and better opportunities for the regional workforce.” The House Ways and Means Committee is expected to begin marking up the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on November 6, 2017. Click HERE to read the full legislative text. Click HERE to read the section-by-section summary. Click HERE to read the policy highlights. Click HERE to read examples of how this legislation will help Americans of all walks of life.
11.01.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today sent a letter to Enbridge as it relates to the company knowing of damage to portions of the enamel coating on the Line 5 pipeline under the Straits of Mackinac as far back as 2014. Upton is requesting both documents not provided after a previous request and a meeting with the highest-ranking official Enbridge can provide within two weeks. In addition to the letter, which can be found here or below, Upton released the following statement: “The lack of transparency from Enbridge is completely unacceptable. Michigan deserves better. I will continue to hold Enbridge accountable for their inactions when it comes to the Line 5 pipeline.” Full text of letter: Mr. Al Monaco President and Chief Executive Officer Enbridge, Inc 200, Fifth Avenue Place 425 1st Street SW Calgary, Alberta Canada T2P 3L8 Dear Mr. Monaco: It is with great concern that I recently learned that Enbridge knew of damage to portions of the enamel coating on the Line 5 pipeline under the Straits of Mackinac as far back as 2014. This revelation is inconsistent with statements made by the company earlier this year to me and the Michigan Pipeline Safety Board indicating that there were no sections of the pipe where bare metal was exposed underwater. Although Enbridge has stated that the safety of the pipeline was not compromised by the loss in coating, it is absolutely unacceptable that the people of Michigan were kept in the dark about this issue for three years. The Great Lakes are far too important of a resource to be threatened by your lack of transparency and attention to detail in reporting. I also write today as a follow up to the letter I sent you on September 11 of this year. In that letter, I requested that you provide an updated copy of Enbridge’s integrity management plan for Line 5, which you have failed to do. As a response to this letter, I request that you provide the following two items: 1. A detailed explanation of when Enbridge discovered gaps in the protective coating on the pipeline, what steps were taken to mitigate that issue, why it was not reported to the relevant regulating agencies upon discovery, and what the company is doing to ensure all pipeline integrity information has been supplied to safety authorities. 2. A full and up-to-date copy of Enbridge’s integrity management plan for Line 5, demonstrating compliance with relevant pipeline safety laws and regulation. Furthermore, in light of recent revelations and Enbridge’s ongoing inability and/or unwillingness to provide pressing information, I am requesting a meeting with the highest-ranking official you can provide within two weeks. Thank you for your attention to this matter. I look forward to your prompt and thorough response.
10.27.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following public service announcement encouraging residents of Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District to participate in National Prescription Drug Take Back Day on Saturday, October 28. The service provides an opportunity for citizens to safely and securely dispose of their expired, unused, and unwanted prescription drugs at an authorized disposal site in their community. Since the National Take Back Day began, more than 450 tons of unused prescription drugs have been collected. “There is simply no effort too small when it comes to fighting the opioid crisis. As I’ve always said: We need an all-hands-on-deck approach,” said Upton. “As such, I wanted to make everyone aware of this important opportunity to help out. National Prescription Drug Take Back Day is a chance to dispose of expired prescription drugs in a safe and responsible way – no questions asked. It’s also yet another opportunity to raise awareness about the potential for opioid and prescription drug abuse.” From 10am to 2pm on October 28, the following locations in and around Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District will collect unused prescription drugs: Allegan County Allegan County Sheriff’s Office; 640 River Street in Allegan Holland Department of Public Safety; 89 West 8th Street in Holland Michigan State Police Wayland Post; 544 North Main Street in Wayland Berrien County Howard Township Hall; 1345 Barron Lake Road in Niles Michigan State Police Niles Post; 1600 Silverbrook Ave in Niles Cass County Cass County Sheriff’s Office, Permanent Drop Box; 321 M-62 in Cassopolis Family Fare Supermarket; 56151 M-51 South in Dowagiac Marcellus Township Hall; 13163 Marcellus Highway in Marcellus Ontwa Township/Edwardsburg Police Department; 26296 US-12 in Edwardsburg Pokagon Health Center; 58620 Sink Road in Dowagiac Silver Creek Township Hall; 32764 Dixon Street in Dowagiac St. Joseph County Constantine Police Department; 115 White Pigeon Street in Constantine Three Rivers Police Department; 333 West Michigan Ave in Three Rivers St. Joseph County Sheriff’s Office; 650 East Main Street in Centreville Sturgis Police Department; 122 North Nottawa Street in Sturgis Van Buren County Antwerp Township Activity Center; 24821 Front Ave in Mattawan Michigan State Police Paw Paw Post; 43255 60th Ave in Paw Paw Shoreline Wellness & Rehabilitation Center; 950 S Bailey Ave in South Haven Indiana Drop Boxes Michigan City Police Department Drop Box; 1201 East Michigan Boulevard in Michigan City St. Joseph County Police Department Drop Box; 401 West Sample Street in South Bend Additionally, there are Red Med Box sites where the public can drop off unused prescription drugs in Kalamazoo County. You can find those locations here. To learn more about Upton’s work on the opioid crisis please click here.
10.26.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after attending the bipartisan White House announcement that the Trump Administration would declare a Nationwide Public Health Emergency to address the opioid crisis: “I want to applaud the Trump Administration for taking decisive action to address the threat the opioid crisis poses. This fight is personal to me: It has hit home even in my own extended family. It has torn through families, neighborhoods, and communities both in my home state of Michigan and indeed across the entire country. “In the last few years I have been meeting with first responders, crisis center employees, advocacy groups, and yes – individuals suffering. All of these folks have said that, tragically, the death toll continues to rise. As part of my landmark, bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, an additional $1 billion was allocated to states, like Michigan, to address opioid addiction treatment and prevention. Just this year, the first round of that funding was delivered. Michigan received more than $16 million dollars. This grant funding will make a real difference. To those suffering, I just say this: Help is on the way. “But there is more work to be done. Clearly. And here in Congress we will continue to take steps to address this epidemic. We should all work together to advance meaningful, bipartisan legislation that will make a difference. Together, we can take on this ‘silent epidemic’ and bring it out of the shadows.” Since 2015, Upton has been committed to taking action on the tragic opioid abuse epidemic that has affected communities in Michigan and across the country. Fred has led the charge to pass bipartisan legislation to address this widespread problem including the 21st Century Cures Act and the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA). Both were signed into law by President Obama. As part of the 21st Century Cures Act, Michigan has received more than $16 million in grant funding with more on its way. Learn more about Upton’s work on this topic here.
10.24.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, tomorrow is to participate in a full Energy and Commerce Committee hearing titled, “Federal Efforts to Combat the Opioid Crisis: A Status Update on CARA and Other Initiatives.” Representatives from the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), Centers for Disease Control (CDC), and National Institutes of Health (NIH) are all expected to testify. The hearing is scheduled to begin at 10 a.m. You can watch the hearing live HERE. Background: Since 2015, Upton has been committed to taking action on the tragic opioid abuse epidemic that has affected communities in Michigan and across the country. Fred has led the charge to pass bipartisan legislation to address this widespread problem including the 21st Century Cures Act and the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA). Both were signed into law by President Obama. As part of the 21st Century Cures Act, Michigan has received more than $16 million in grant funding with more on its way.
10.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 4011, that would harmonize separate sets of fuel economy regulations at the state and federal level into one consistent standard. U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Ann Arbor, is the lead co-sponsor and similar legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate. “The most important aspect of this bill: Affordable autos for all Americans,” said Upton. “The high cost of the current conflicting regulatory requirements automakers are facing drives up manufacturing expenses, which are then passed along to consumers. Our common-sense, bipartisan legislation would help deliver on the promise of a strong national fuel economy standard, replacing the current patchwork of federal and state laws. I continue to support one strong national standard that increases fuel economy, reduces carbon emissions, creates jobs here in Michigan, and ensures affordability and choice for all.” Despite attempts from the Obama administration to harmonize the various fuel economy programs as fully as possible currently automakers and manufacturers still contend with two different sets of fuel economy regulations at the federal and state level. Those include the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) Corporate Fuel Economy (CAFE) program and the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) vehicle carbon dioxide (fuel economy) reduction program. The Fuel Economy Harmonization Act would help deliver on the promise of creating one national fuel economy program, making it easier and less costly for manufacturers and automakers to meet the important goals of federal fuel economy programs. More information on H.R. 4011 can be found here.
10.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today supported a bipartisan aid package that totals $36.5 billion for urgent, short-term needs related to recovery from Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, and wildfires in the U.S. The package passed with wide, bipartisan support 353 to 69. Upton released the following statement: “There is a needed level of urgency behind today’s vote. These funds are vital to our neighbors and fellow Americans in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Texas, Louisiana, and Florida and out west. They need assistance now. And help is on its way with more to come in the future. I urge my colleagues in the U.S. Senate to take up this aid package as soon as possible. We can only fully recover from these natural disasters when we all work together.”
10.11.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today testified before the House Energy and Commerce Committee as part of a bipartisan “Member Day” on the opioid crisis. The bipartisan Member Day allowed representatives both on and off the committee to testify about the opioid epidemic, share local and personal stories, and highlight potential legislative solutions. Learn more about Upton’s work on this important issue here: Upton.house.gov/opioids. **Click HERE to watch** Upton’s full remarks as prepared can be found below: MR. CHARMAN Thank you for holding this very important “Member Day” hearing on a crisis that has been plaguing our nation over the last several years - opioid addiction and abuse. This silent epidemic has torn through families, neighborhoods, and communities both in my home state of Michigan and indeed across the entire country. In 2015, there were nearly 2,000 opioid abuse related deaths in Michigan alone. Even more tragically, more than 22,000 babies are born every year across the country with Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome. This terrible epidemic has hit home both in my community and yes, even my own family. This is personal to me. In the last few years I have been meeting with first responders, crisis center employees, advocacy groups, and yes – individuals suffering. All of these folks have said that, tragically, the death toll continues to rise. This is why we have been taking concrete action here in the Energy and Commerce Committee to combat this widespread epidemic. Just last year, the president signed into law a sweeping package aimed at attacking the opioid epidemic from all sides. As part of my landmark, bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, an additional 1 billion dollars was allocated to states, like Michigan, to address opioid addiction treatment and prevention. Just this year, the first round of that funding was delivered. Michigan received more than 16 million dollars. This grant funding will make a real difference. To those suffering, I just say this: Help is on the way. As a result of my legislation as well as administrative action, my good friend Dr. Francis Collins is helping to lead the charge in his position as director of the National Institutes of Health. This summer, the NIH started meeting with experts in academia and the biopharmaceutical industry to talk about innovative ways in which government and industry can work together to address this crisis. I strongly support this work and look forward to seeing the results of the research NIH is doing with its industry partners. There are also things we in Congress can help NIH with in these endeavors. First, we need NIH to develop more options for overdose reversal. Second, we need the evidence NIH can develop on effective therapies for addiction. And finally, we must accelerate the development of non-addictive pain medicines. The sooner we in Congress supply the resources necessary to conduct this work, the sooner we can supply powerful new tools for our communities. These efforts can't happen fast enough, and these are some of the many reasons that I continue to support robust NIH funding. There is more work to be done. Clearly. And here in Congress we will continue to take steps to address this epidemic. In this committee, we’re on the front lines in advancing meaningful, bipartisan legislation that will make a difference. Together, we can take this “silent epidemic” and bring it out of the shadows.
10.06.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the issue of bump stocks: “In the wake of the horrific tragedy in Las Vegas it’s clear that we cannot with a straight face justify the legality of these tools that can so easily be manipulated to do unimaginable harm and are specifically designed to get around the automatic weapon ban. There is no place for them in a civil society. None. “I am currently working with other members of Congress who share my concerns on a letter to the ATF. It is my hope that after a thorough examination, the ATF will agree with us and conclude these mechanisms violate the law and will be banned. “It is our responsibility to look at what happened in Las Vegas and find ways to take action. This is a step we can and should take. I’m proud to stand up and push this common-sense effort to ban bump-stocks.”
10.05.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and his colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee recently advanced 10 pieces of legislation including H.R. ___, the HEALTHY KIDS Act. This legislation would extend funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) through Fiscal Year 2022. The Committee also cleared legislation that would extend funding and make improvements for Community Health Centers. “The HEALTHY Kids Act is an important public health bill that keeps our promise to the most vulnerable among us.” Upton said. “If Michigan’s CHIP program, which currently has more than 39,000 low-income children enrolled, is not extended soon it would be disastrous for our communities. We must work together to reauthorize this critical program. This legislation is good for Michigan children and families and I will continue to work hard to get the job done for them. I am also pleased we are working to extend funding for Community Health Centers, which serve thousands here in Southwest Michigan.” Background: CHIP, enacted in 1997, provides health coverage to targeted low-income children and pregnant women in families with an annual income above Medicaid eligibility levels but have no health insurance. Federal funding for CHIP expired September 30, 2017. States are currently using unspent FY 2017 CHIP allotments and redistributed funds from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to cover current spending needs for CHIP programs. In 2013, Upton helped broker the bipartisan, bicameral deal that lead to the last reauthorization of CHIP.
10.05.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance the House Fiscal Year 2018 budget. The budget resolution establishes the budget for Fiscal Year 2018, budget levels for Fiscal Years 2019-2022, and proposes policies to meet those targets. Upton released the following statement: “With the passage of this budget resolution, the path to tax reform has been made easier. This budget blueprint also outlines reasonable measures to reduce our deficit while charting a path on how we can get there. Importantly, this budget keeps spending levels in place for key domestic items such as the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and the National Institutes of Health. While every budget is merely a blueprint, it’s important we move towards an agreement with the Senate so we keep the momentum going for our pro-growth tax reform initiatives.” READ: Upton’s statement on tax reform framework.
10.03.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, recently sent a letter to the United States Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, which oversees the U.S. Army Corps of Engineering, to enlist help with the severe erosion problems plaguing the City of New Buffalo and New Buffalo Township. Signing onto the letter additionally was U.S. Rep. Tim Walberg, R-Tipton. “We write to you today to enlist your help with severe erosion that the City of New Buffalo and New Buffalo Township are experiencing due to the failure of the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) to maintain the beach nourishment plan as agreed to when the New Buffalo Harbor was originally constructed. The erosion is not only causing destruction to private property, but is also threatening the water supply for the City of New Buffalo due to its pump house located in the area being eroded….The continued destruction of this Michigan shoreline and the potential destruction of a public utility cannot be allowed. I support the findings of the 2009 Corps study and the further findings of Edgewater Resources, and urge you to prioritize this significant project.” The letter reads. The full text of the letter can be found here or below: Mr. Douglas W. Lamont Acting Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works 108 Army Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20310 Dear Assistant Secretary Lamont: We write to you today to enlist your help with severe erosion that the City of New Buffalo and New Buffalo Township are experiencing due to the failure of the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) to maintain the beach nourishment plan as agreed to when the New Buffalo Harbor was originally constructed. The erosion is not only causing destruction to private property, but is also threatening the water supply for the City of New Buffalo due to its pump house located in the area being eroded. The New Buffalo Shoreline Alliance, in conjunction with the support of the City of New Buffalo and the township, has retained Edgewater Resources, LLC to seek a permanent solution to the problem. Edgewater reviewed the 2009 Corps study and concurred with the basic findings of the study. However, due to the lack of nourishment over the past twenty-two years the findings of the 2009 study must be expanded from five to 10 breakwaters and beach nourishment to 33 breakwaters with 600,000 cubic yards of beach nourishment. This expansion will have an estimated cost of $22,000,000. This increase is due to the damage that has occurred because of the cessation of beach nourishment. The cost of these findings has been bore entirely by contributions from the affected homeowners’ associations and the board members of the New Buffalo Shoreline Alliance. The continued destruction of this Michigan shoreline and the potential destruction of a public utility cannot be allowed. I support the findings of the 2009 Corps study and the further findings of Edgewater Resources, and urge you to prioritize this significant project. Thank you for considering this request. If you have any questions or need additional information regarding the situation affecting Southwest Michigan’s shoreline from New Buffalo to Michiana please reach out to our Washington, D.C. offices anytime to facilitate this conversation.
10.03.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today questioned Richard Smith, the former chairman and chief executive officer of Equifax Inc., about the recent data breach that exposed the personal information of 143 million Americans. Information taken from the Equifax system included names, Social Security numbers, birthdates, addresses, and in some cases, driver’s license data. In addition, more than 200,000 people had their credit card information stolen. The hearing took place during a Subcommittee on Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection (DCCP) hearing focused on getting answers for consumers about the breach. Click HERE to watch the exchange. Background: In 1999, Upton voted in support of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA), which required financial institutions to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information, to protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of consumer information, and to protect against unauthorized access to or use of information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer.
10.02.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement: “What happened in Las Vegas is heartbreaking beyond belief. Like the rest of the country, my wife Amey and I woke up this morning to the stunning images of victims being mowed down. It almost defies words. Yes, our thoughts and prayers go out to the families and friends of these victims and the hundreds who have been hospitalized. We also thank our First Responders whose swift actions ended this grisly nightmare. While details are still emerging, I join with the rest of the nation in sending our deepest condolences to those affected by this senseless, horrific tragedy.”
09.28.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after Entergy Corporation announced that the Palisades Nuclear Power Plant will remain operational until 2022: “As Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee, I am delighted to hear the news. This is a welcome announcement for the workers and the community. As a long-time supporter of safe, reliable, and secure nuclear energy, my goal all along was to make certain there was never any political interference with the operations of our nuclear facilities. I will continue to support an ‘all-of-the-above’ energy strategy that includes the safe operation of our nuclear facilities.”
09.27.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement as leaders in the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate released framework for pro-growth tax reform: “Our framework will deliver tax relief for middle-class families, allow workers to take home more money, and put American businesses in a better competitive position – keeping jobs here at home. “Americans need tax relief and reform now more than ever. As I’ve spoken to countless folks and businesses, small and large, here in Southwest Michigan all agree that our tax code is too unwieldy, too costly, and too complicated. It’s time to change that so we can unleash American competitiveness and ingenuity which will create more good-paying jobs and economic benefits right here. “I’m confident we can deliver this year. I look forward to working with my colleagues here in the House and Senate and with the administration to deliver results for families and businesses in Michigan and across the country.” According to the Tax Foundation, Michigan will add approximately 50,000 jobs and after-tax income on medium-income households will increase by more than $4,000 based on the tax-reform blueprint outlined by House Republicans. Upton has met with a wide variety of stakeholders to discuss tax reform including Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin. Congress last enacted tax reform legislation in 1986. Click here to read to framework document.
09.27.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today welcomed Portage, Michigan, Pastor Dennis Jokela to the U.S. Capitol to deliver the opening prayer before the U.S. House of Representatives as guest Chaplin. Jokela is affiliated with the Cornerstone Church in Portage and is the Chaplin of the Kalamazoo County Sheriff’s Department. He also has seven decorations from his time serving in the U.S. Navy during Vietnam. Click HERE to watch Jokela deliver the opening prayer. Click HERE to watch Upton deliver a speech in honor of Jokela.
09.15.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his House colleagues in advancing H.R. 3354, the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act of 2018 by a 211 to 198 vote. Passage of this legislation marks the first instance since 2009 that the House advanced all 12 appropriation funding bills on time. “The passage of all 12 appropriations funding bills mark a big win for Michigan taxpayers,” said Upton. “It funds priorities important to Michigan such as full funding of the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, efforts to combat the opioid crisis and ensuring no regional Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) offices shut-down. We also raised the pay for our men and women in uniform, made investments in our infrastructure, and funded FEMA for disaster relief. I want to commend the Appropriations Committee for their tireless work to move this funding bills through regular order here in the House and urge the Senate to do their job as well.” H.R. 3354 is the second appropriations package voted on this year after the Make America Secure Act passed the House in July.
09.13.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after voting against an amendment before the U.S. House of Representatives that would have reduced the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) budget by nearly $2 billion – almost a quarter of the current budget. The amendment, had it been adopted, would have also made drastic cuts to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI). The amendment failed by a 260 to 151 vote. “The passage of this amendment would have made drastic cuts to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GRLI). That’s a non-starter for me. The GLRI is vital to the health of our Great Lakes: It helps us fight Asian Carp and other invasive species, invests in Michigan jobs, our drinking water, and way of life. I have consistently stood up against misguided efforts to undermine this program and will continue to do so. The amendment was bad news from the start and I’m very pleased that Republicans and Democrats came together to defeat it.” In March, Upton publicly came out against the proposed cuts to the GLRI and in April voted on legislation to fund the federal government for Fiscal Year 2017 that included level funding for the GLRI.
09.11.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today sent a letter to Enbridge urging action and improved transparency as it relates to the Line 5 pipeline, which runs under the Straits of Mackinac. The letter comes after the news that the State of Michigan had ordered Enbridge to restore a protective coating on parts of Line 5. “I am deeply concerned by recent information confirming gaps in the protective coating on a portion of the pipeline that runs under the Straits of Mackinac, especially given your company’s acknowledgement that construction activities may have caused or contributed to loss of coating. These most recent findings raise serious concerns about Enbridge’s actions and its compliance with pipeline safety laws and regulations necessary to ensure public health and safety and the protection of our natural resources. As you know, the Great Lakes are a precious natural resource for our state and the entire Midwest region. A spill would be catastrophic with immediate and long-term harm. I expect immediate action and improved transparency when it comes to issues with Line 5. Rest assured I will remain hyper-vigilant and expect prompt response to my request.” the letter reads. The full text of the letter can be found here or below: Mr. Al Monaco President and Chief Executive Officer Enbridge, Inc 200, Fifth Avenue Place 425 1st Street SW Calgary, Alberta Canada T2P 3L8 Dear Mr. Monaco: In the summer of 2010, we learned the hard way in Southwest Michigan the price of gross negligence when it comes to maintaining pipeline infrastructure. It cannot be allowed to happen again and certainly not in the Great Lakes. In that regard, I write to request timely information about Enbridge’s pipeline safety and integrity management activities relating to Line 5, a 645-mile pipeline built in 1953 that travels through Michigan’s Upper and Lower Peninsulas. I am deeply concerned by recent information confirming gaps in the protective coating on a portion of the pipeline that runs under the Straits of Mackinac, especially given your company’s acknowledgement that construction activities may have caused or contributed to loss of coating. These most recent findings raise serious concerns about Enbridge’s actions and its compliance with pipeline safety laws and regulations necessary to ensure public health and safety and the protection of our natural resources. Under my Chairmanship of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Congress worked in a bipartisan manner to strengthen pipeline safety laws to require more stringent, risk-based inspections of Line 5. My provision in the law requires Enbridge to conduct internal inspections annually, and other types of inspections, such as route surveys, pressure tests, and external corrosion assessments, on a schedule based on the significant risk that the pipeline poses to the Great Lakes and surrounding areas. Despite the hydrotest conducted this summer, the more recent disclosure of a loss of protective coating and the likelihood that human error was a factor raises serious concerns about Enbridge’s compliance with federal pipeline safety laws. Given the threat that a loss of protective coating presents to the safety and integrity of the pipeline, I urge you to conduct repairs immediately. Additionally, I request that you provide my office with a report describing each location where damage to the external coating has been observed, the extent and nature of the damage, and any available documentation, including photographs and videos. I also request that you provide my office with an updated copy of the integrity management plan for Line 5, demonstrating compliance with relevant pipeline safety laws and regulations. As you know, the Great Lakes are a precious natural resource for our state and the entire Midwest region. A spill would be catastrophic with immediate and long-term harm. I expect immediate action and improved transparency when it comes to issues with Line 5. Rest assured I will remain hyper-vigilant and expect prompt response to my request.
09.07.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, this week co-sponsored H.R. 3441, the Save Local Business Act. This bipartisan legislation would amend the National Labor Relations Act and the Fair Labor Standards Act to restore the common-sense definition of what it means to be an employer. “This bipartisan legislation will fix misguided Obama-era policy that pits the big guys versus the little guys,” said Upton. “Under our solution, workers, and the businesses they work for, will receive much needed certainty under the law. This piece of legislation will help our local small businesses right here in Southwest Michigan grow and succeed. I hope to see it move through the legislative process quickly.” H.R. 3441 clarifies that two or more employers must have “actual, direct, and immediate” control over employees to be considered joint employees. The bill also rolls back the joint employer protection rule to protect American jobs, small business owners, and entrepreneurship. According to the American Action Forum, the joint employer rule could result in 1.7 million fewer jobs. Upton recently met with restaurant owners in Kalamazoo to discuss this topic.
09.06.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance H.R. 3388, the Safely Ensuring Lives Future Development and Research in Vehicle Development (SELF DRIVE) Act. “As the birthplace of the automotive industry, Michigan is a well-known home to innovative suppliers and manufacturers that make our cars and trucks safer, more efficient, and more affordable,” said Upton. “We are also home to a nexus of engineering, research, and workforce talent, which makes us perfect for the development of the next phase of vehicular mobility: self-driving cars. This bipartisan legislation will help spur this new sector of our economy, creating good-paying jobs right here in Michigan and across the country. I look forward to seeing the U.S. Senate take up our bill.” Click HERE to watch Upton’s remarks on the House Floor The SELF DRIVE Act will advance safety by prioritizing the protection of consumers, reaffirm the role and responsibilities of federal and state governments, update the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard to account for advances in technology, and maximize opportunities for research and development here in the U.S. in order to create jobs and grow economic opportunities. It also includes the PAVE Act, authored by Upton and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Michigan, which was approved by the Energy and Commerce Committee in July by a 54 to 0 vote. Learn more about the PAVE Act here. Learn more about the SELF DRIVE Act here.
09.06.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after joining his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance Hurricane Harvey emergency funding legislation by a vote of 419 to 3: “The situation that unfolded in Houston, throughout Texas, and in Louisiana was heartbreaking to witness. We will continue to keep those affected in our hearts and are ever-grateful to the brave men and women who put themselves in harm’s way to protect families, friends, neighbors, and strangers alike. This vote today is a great first step for getting the victims of Hurricane Harvey the resources they need. This bill will ensure life-saving response and recovery efforts continue uninterrupted and begin to help individuals, families, and businesses rebuild. We are committed to helping this region recover now, and in the future. Our work has just begun especially as we all keep a close eye on Hurricane Irma and possible further destruction.” The bill contains the full amount request by the Administration – totaling $7.85 billion in emergency funding, including $7.4 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund (DRF).
09.05.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “For these young men and women, the United States is their home. They’ve been raised in our neighborhoods, attended our schools, served in our military, and worked in our communities. I’ve met with countless concerned individuals impacted by DACA and heard from local universities, restaurant and small business owners, as well as my farmer friends who all agree we must take care of these folks. This is why I’ve long-supported using a compassionate but accountable way to legislatively address these undocumented minors brought to our country through no fault of their own. “Rather than executive order, it is the responsibility of Congress to work together on fair, rigorous, and bipartisan legislation that addresses the long-term uncertainty facing these young people. To that end, I have already co-sponsored two bills that represent common-sense ways to address DACA. In the coming weeks and months I will continue to work with anyone to fix our long-broken immigration system and to give certainty to Dreamers who know no country but America.” Background: Upton is a co-sponsor of H.R. 496, the BRIDGE Act, and the Recognizing America’s Children (RAC) Act.
09.01.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, wrapped up the August District Work Period after hosting 82 meetings and events with constituents in all six of the counties he represents. To date, Upton has held more than 360 meetings and events with constituents this year. “This was a great August District Work Period as we were able to have 82 productive meetings and events with folks – including those with very strong opinions contrary to my own," said Upton. "We discussed issues such as healthcare, education, immigration, tax reform, 21st Century Cures, jobs, our economy, and more. As we head into September, there is much work in front of us. A key task on our plate will be pursuing bipartisan, pro-growth tax reform to improve Michigan’s economy and create jobs. We’re looking forward to a busy and productive fall. Looking forward, we will continue to engage folks back home through a wide variety of platforms that produce meaningful conversations on important policy issues.” During the August District Work Period, Upton attended roundtable discussions, met with faith leaders in Benton Harbor and community groups like the Kalamazoo Kiwanis Club and the Metropolitan Kalamazoo Branch of the NAACP, toured Vickers Engineering, the Vicksburg paper mill revitalization, and Saugatuck-Douglas History Museum, spoke at West Michigan University and local Farm Bureau events, and much more. He also conducted several one-on-one meetings with constituents to discuss a wide variety of policy issues. Additional pictures from the August District Work Period are available here.
08.23.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today participated in a roundtable with local restaurant owners at Fieldstone Grill, hosted by the Michigan Restaurant Association and the National Restaurant Association. Michigan’s Sixth District is home to more than 1,160 eating and drinking establishments, employing more than 23,400 people throughout the District. “Our local small business owners are the heart and soul of Michigan and our economy,” said Upton. “I was pleased to join local restaurant owners from our community, the Michigan Restaurant Association, and the National Restaurant Association. Roundtables like these are the perfect opportunity to listen to business owners and learn about the issues and regulations that are impacting their restaurants. These discussions facilitate a chance to get feedback as to what we can be doing in Washington to lessen their burdens as they look to grow our local economy.” “We thank Congressman Upton for taking the time to meet with restauranteurs from across the district this morning,” said Ken Miller, past chairman of the Michigan Restaurant Association and current chief executive officer of the Millennium Restaurant Group. “Operating restaurants and employing members of our community can be a challenging business. Opportunities for direct dialogue with our elected officials allows restaurateurs to explain how government policies impact our day-to-day operations and the changes we would like to see made in Washington, D.C.”
08.18.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after President Trump signed into law H.R. 2430, the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017. “Workers, job creators, and patients here in Michigan and across the country depend on this legislation, and we just delivered. This bipartisan legislation is about two things: Local jobs and improving public health. As I’ve visited with local workers and leaders of innovative companies like Pfizer Inc, which recently announced a multi-million dollar expansion in Portage, they’ve told me first-hand how important this legislation is to protect these good-paying, local jobs. I’ve also heard from patients who have benefitted from the new therapies the FDA helps get to market thanks to this legislation. It’s a win-win. This action is so important to Southwest Michigan and I’m pleased to see it signed into law today.” In June, Upton visited with Pfizer Inc’s largest manufacturing site in Portage, where company officials expressed support for the legislation.
08.16.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement: “Let me be clear: There are no 'very fine' white supremacists. I join with many others in denouncing this sort of unacceptable racism and bigotry and condemning white supremacy, neo-Nazi, and KKK groups - particularly the ones whose actions led to tragic violence in Charlottesville. “My father fought in the Battle of the Bulge during World War II against the Nazi's. That kind of evil and hatred must be stamped out. “I have always been one who looks to bring folks together. I’ll continue to speak out against racism, divisive rhetoric, and violence just as I did on Saturday.”
08.16.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the news that former 3rd District Congressman Vern Ehlers had passed away at the age of 83: “They don’t make them like Vern anymore. He was so well respected on both sides of the aisle, hard-working, and always a teacher at heart. He committed his life to the service of others – ensuring our students were well prepared for careers in math and science and raising awareness for protecting our environment and Great Lakes. He was a family man and a Christian who made his community and country a better place for all. We will certainly miss his common-sense voice, the likes of which is all too rare in today’s political climate.”
08.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement on the news of riots in Charlottesville, Virginia, spurred by white supremacy groups: “What is happening in #Charlottesville is most disturbing. It shames us as a nation. It needs to stop. Now. We are all watching. It threatens the very core of our country: Tolerance, acceptance, & embracing diversity. We must join together to oppose this divisiveness.”
08.07.2017	U.S. Rep Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after the Army Corps of Engineers released the long-awaited Brandon Road Study. “This draft study provides important guidance on how to best protect our Great Lakes from invasive species such as Asian Carp. Republicans and Democrats must continue working together on solutions that protect the Great Lakes economy and environment. This is a solid first step, but more work remains."
07.28.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement: “The path forward to fixing the healthcare mess is seeking bipartisan, common-sense common-ground. At the top of our list is stabilizing insurance markets and ensuring lower premiums for patients. Our other goals are simple and what I’ve fought for all along: Protect those with pre-existing conditions and ensure states that expanded Medicaid, like Michigan, are secure. This will safeguard the most vulnerable amongst us so they do not have the rug ripped out from under them. I look forward to being a constructive, bipartisan partner in these efforts. To that effect, I have joined with nearly 50 members of both parties as part of the bipartisan “Problem Solvers” caucus to pursue these goals.”
07.27.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee in advancing seven bipartisan pieces of legislation. Among those was H.R. 3406, the PAVE Act authored by Upton and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Michigan, which was approved by a 54 to 0 vote. “The future of the automobile is here and the automotive industry is completely revolutionizing how we will get around for decades to come,” said Upton. “Self-driving cars will play a critical role in Michigan’s economy and it’s important we have guidelines in place to help create jobs and boost our economy without sacrificing safety. This bipartisan legislation will allow self-driving car manufacturers to innovate while keeping gold standard safety levels in place.” This bipartisan legislation expands existing authority for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to evaluate and approve exemptions from federal motor vehicle safety standards only if there is no reduction in safety. Increasing the number of vehicles for which exemptions may be granted helps promote the development and testing of new, innovative safety features. Exemptions are also critical to the development of self-driving car technology because it allows industry to innovate and collect necessary information and data that will help drive these technologies forward. In order for a manufacturer to receive an exemption, the manufacturer must demonstrate the vehicle is safe. Under the PAVE Act, NHTSA maintains its ability to recall any exempted vehicle that poses a safety risk.
07.27.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the House Committee on Energy and Commerce advanced H.R. 3387, the Drinking Water System Improvement Act, by a unanimous vote. “We lived through a terrible tragedy in Flint. And yes, there is still more work to be done there. But Flint was a wake-up call for the rest of the country. Whether rural or urban, folks raised their hands and asked the same question: Is our water safe? This bill helps answer that and is a major step forward in modernizing our nation’s drinking water and water infrastructure. I look forward to the full House of Representatives examining this legislation and getting it one step closer to the president’s desk.” H.R. 3387 would authorize $8 billion over five years for the drinking water revolving loan fund program. It would also expand the eligible uses of Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Fund to cover the costs associated with preconstruction activities and replacing or rehabilitating aging treatment, storage, or distribution facilities. Finally, it would create a strategic plan to have an electronic system that allows water utilities to send their compliance data to states and have states send it to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
07.25.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance H.R. 3364, the Russia, Iran, and North Korean Sanctions Act by a bipartisan 419 to 3 vote. “These bipartisan sanctions hit Russia, Iran, and North Korea where it hurts the most: their wallets,” said Upton. “Russia, Iran, and North Korea all pose serious threats to our national security and consistently undermine global stability. In response, we are using all of the political and economic tools at our disposal to hold these bad actors accountable. I would urge the president to sign these new, sweeping sanctions into law immediately.” H.R. 3364 enshrines existing sanctions against Russia into law, strengthens sanctions in response to cyber-attacks against the U.S. and other democracies and Russian interference in Ukraine, empowers Congress to review any potential sanctions relief, and works to strengthen trans-Atlantic cooperation in countering Russian aggression. The bill also contains sanctions for those involved in the Iranian regime’s missile program, its efforts to destabilize the Middle East region and threaten Israel, as well as its ongoing human-rights abuses. In addition, H.R. 3364 expands sanctions to deter North Korea’s nuclear weapons programs, targets those individuals overseas who employ North Korean slave labor, cracks down on North Korean shipping and use of international ports, and requires the administration to determine whether North Korea is a state sponsor of terrorism.
07.24.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance H.R. 3218, the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Education Assistance Act of 2017. The legislation was passed by a bipartisan vote of 405 to 0. “This is a transformational expansion of GI Bill benefits granted to veterans, their surviving spouses, and dependents,” said Upton. “Since 1944 the GI Bill has provided our veterans the opportunity to invest in their futures through access to education benefits. By growing these education and workforce training opportunities we can help ease their transition from active duty to civilian life. I applaud the passage of this legislation and look forward to swift consideration in the U.S. Senate.” The biggest expansion of college aid for military veterans in a decade, H.R. 3218 eliminates the expiration date on educational benefits and increases money for thousands of soldiers serving in the National Guard and Reserves. The bill also provides additional funds for military students to pursue degrees in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields. It also provides 100 percent GI Bill eligibility to Post 9/11 Purple Heart recipients. The bill is supported by nearly 40 veteran’s advocacy groups including the American Legion, the Student Veterans of America, the Veterans of Foreign War, Military Order of the Purple Heart, and Got Your 6. This vote follows on Upton’s longtime efforts to stand up for our brave veterans, and their families. In June, Upton and the U.S. House of Representatives advanced legislation to reform the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and in February, Upton and the U.S. House of Representatives advanced a package of bipartisan bills to help veterans succeed in the workforce.
07.24.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the White House announced its intention to nominate former U.S. Rep. Pete Hoekstra as the new U.S. Ambassador to the Kingdom of The Netherlands: “The administration made a wise decision by picking Pete, with his long-established Dutch roots and heritage. He is exceptionally qualified and will make a tremendous ambassador. Pete’s always had a passion for public service and a way of connecting with people that will continue the fruitful relationship we’ve long-enjoyed with The Netherlands.” “We look forward to seeing him at our annual Tulip Time Festival in Holland, Michigan – a community where he is deeply loved and respected. I look forward to working with Pete in his new capacity and urge the U.S. Senate to confirm him as soon as they are able.” In 2016, Upton and U.S. Rep. Bill Huizenga led a letter, signed by seven other Members of Congress from the Michigan delegation, to the Trump Transition Team urging them to nominate Hoekstra.
07.21.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, this morning sent a letter to Mr. Terry Gou, founder and chairman of Foxconn Technology Group, expressing his strong support for Foxconn to site their new display-making factory in Southwest Michigan. In the letter, Upton says: Our Southwest Michigan community is uniquely qualified to become the home of your new display-making factory. This region has all of the key components for your investment to prosper: a solid manufacturing sector, a steadfast workforce, and robust economic development organizations. I offer my full support for your potential expansion and ask you to strongly consider Southwest Michigan as the next home for the Foxconn Technology Group. Full letter can be found online here or below: The purpose of this letter is to express my strong support for siting your new display-making factory in Southwest Michigan. Our region’s reputation as a leader in research, development, and manufacturing dates back more than a century, making it especially conducive to the standard of quality expected by cutting-edge industries. Today, there are 20 “Fortune 1000” companies headquartered or physically present in Southwest Michigan – operating in diverse sectors such as: medical devices, pharmaceuticals, design-based manufacturing, packaging, and agriculture. Manufacturers have long been attracted to Southwest Michigan because of our skilled and dedicated workforce that draws on a distinct spirit of entrepreneurship. There is also no better place to raise a family or run a business than on the shores of Lake Michigan – affording both employers and employees an unparalleled quality of life. As you know, on July 12, 2017, the Michigan State Legislature passed a package of tax incentive bills aimed at creating jobs, spurring economic growth, and promoting a unique business community where hard work and continued investment are rewarded. By incentivizing large job providers to expand or relocate to Michigan through abatements on personal income tax withholdings of certain new employees, the state is signaling its commitment to creating long-term, good-paying jobs for its residents. Fostering an environment where businesses can feel confident in their operations is essential to both their bottom-line and the region’s economic health, and Michigan has positioned itself as a leader in workforce development to achieve this end. The positive work of economic development organizations can make job facilitation easy and reliable, and Michigan has continuously invested in making them a necessary resource for its business community. Both the Cornerstone Alliance and Southwest Michigan First have expert teams to provide local businesses with the support and services necessary for success and longevity. In fact, I sit on the board at Southwest Michigan First. These economic development organizations will be able to guide your company through the early stages of growth, and ensure you have the resources and workforce required to adapt to changes in the marketplace. Our Southwest Michigan community is uniquely qualified to become the home of your new display-making factory. This region has all of the key components for your investment to prosper: a solid manufacturing sector, a steadfast workforce, and robust economic development organizations. I offer my full support for your potential expansion and ask you to strongly consider Southwest Michigan as the next home for the Foxconn Technology Group. I would be more than happy to speak with you about this in person or over the phone anytime that is convenient for you. Please reach out to my Washington, D.C. office anytime at (202) 225-3761 to facilitate this conversation.
07.18.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in voting to advance H.R. 3050, the Enhancing State Energy Security Planning and Emergency Preparedness Act of 2017. Upton sponsored the bill. “Here in Michigan our energy infrastructure must be prepared for a wide variety of hazards including floods, tornadoes, storms, snow, fuel supply disruptions, physical and cyber threats, and other catastrophic events. It’s been 25 years since we’ve properly addressed energy security planning and its past time for a legislative update,” said Upton. “Our common-sense, bipartisan solution will directly help states like Michigan deal with these ever-evolving threats. Our bill creates new tools to keep energy supply, transition, and infrastructure such as our electric grid and pipelines secure in the case of an unforeseen emergency. I look forward to the U.S. Senate taking up our bill and getting it to the president’s desk.” “The House’s vote today puts Michigan and other states on a path to a more secure energy future,” said Valerie Brader, executive director of the Michigan Agency for Energy. “Rep. Upton’s bill makes it easier for state and federal officials to work as partners in tackling the growing threat that cybersecurity poses without losing sight of other potential supply disruptions.” H.R. 3050 would enhance the energy emergency planning requirements established in 1990 with the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to strengthen the capability of states to secure the energy infrastructure of the United States against physical and cybersecurity threats and mitigate the risk of energy supply disruptions. Specifically, it would provide federal financial assistance to states, like Michigan, to implement, review, and revise State-level energy security plans. It was passed out the House Energy and Commerce Committee in June on a unanimous vote. Please click here to watch Upton deliver remarks in support of H.R. 3050 on the House Floor.
07.14.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives by voting to advance H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018, by a bipartisan 344 to 81 vote. For 56 years, the NDAA has been the primary way in which Congress executes its Article I constitutional obligation to “provide for the common defense.” “Today we voted to keep our promise to our military. This year’s National Defense Authorization Act focuses on three important objectives: improving military readiness, reforming the Pentagon, and supporting our troops,” said Upton. “The 2018 NDAA also includes a 2.4 percent pay raise – the largest in eight years – for our troops and continues the annual restrictions against transferring detainees from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. We should continue working in a bipartisan manner to get this critical piece of legislation to the president’s desk. Our men and women in uniform, and their families, deserve nothing less.” H.R. 2810 supports funds for a nearly $30 billion increase above the president’s budget request for essential military readiness. Due to budget cuts in previous years, our service members have been forced to do more with less. Troops are taking longer tours of duty, equipment is being used past its lifespan, and important improvements are being postponed. As a result, our military’s preparedness to respond to threats – or its readiness – is dangerously slipping. This increased funding level is informed by years of in-depth Congressional oversight and is crucial at a time when threats from around the globe take increasingly aggressive positions against the United States. The bill also contains important reforms to the way the Pentagon does business, ensuring taxpayer money is being spent wisely. While repairing and rebuilding our military is key to defending our country, so is modernizing the way the Pentagon does business. H.R. 2810 makes it clear that the Pentagon must undergo major bureaucratic overhauls and fundamental reforms to the way they buy goods and services. This type of Pentagon transparency and accountability is ground-breaking and necessary. In addition, H.R. 2810 funds a 2.4 percent pay raise that our troops are entitled to under law while also blocking the president’s ability to reduce troop pay. It also prohibits the reduction of inpatient care for military medical treatment facilities located outside the United States – blocking the misguided attempts to close military medical facilities that our deployed troops, and their families, rely on. The bill also continues federal restrictions of moving detainees to mainland United States from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay.
07.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in advancing H.R. 2430, the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017, by a unanimous vote. “This bipartisan legislation is about two things: improving public health and jobs,” said Upton. “Now that our groundbreaking 21st Century Cures Act is law, we need to make sure that the FDA is able to handle new breakthrough treatments in a timely and predictable fashion. All while maintaining the highest levels of safety. That’s why these user fee agreements are so important. They’re also important to our economy right here in Southwest Michigan where we have literally thousands of jobs that are affected by this legislation. I was proud to champion this bipartisan legislation that is vital to these good-paying, local jobs as well as patients who will benefit from new therapies it helps get to market.” H.R. 2430 updates and reauthorizes the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fee programs for generic drugs, prescription drugs, biosimilar biological products, and medical devices. These user fee programs ensure companies that develop drugs and medical devices partially pay for FDA’s premarket review of their products. Specifically, H.R. 2430 makes common-sense reforms to the FDA such as facilitating the availability of over-the-counter hearing aids, enhancing generic drug competition to help lower prices, and improving fee structures to help smaller drug manufacturers and small businesses compete. FDA leadership has signaled that without swift enactment of this legislation, they would be forced to lay off up to 70 percent of their employees that approve drugs and devices. In June, Upton visited with Pfizer Inc’s largest manufacturing site in Portage where company officials expressed support for the legislation. The programs must be reauthorized by Congress every five years and were last reauthorized in 2012 by legislation sponsored by Upton and signed into law by President Obama.
07.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives advanced three bipartisan initiatives to combat human trafficking. “Human trafficking is one of the world’s fastest-growing crimes with more than 20 million people affected each year. Here in Michigan alone, there were more than 200 cases of human trafficking reported in 2016 – the highest number in the last five years. Behind these startling numbers are real people who are suffering, families torn apart, and heartbreaking stories from around the globe. Clearly, we need to take action. Here in the U.S. House we have a long record of advancing bipartisan legislation that will combat the human trafficking epidemic. Today’s legislative wins will make a real difference and I was proud to stand with my House colleagues – Republicans and Democrats – to take much-needed action against this terrible violation of human dignity.” H.R. 2664, the Enhancing Detection of Human Trafficking Act, will help workplaces here in Southwest Michigan and across the country better report cases suspected of human trafficking. Learn more here. H.R. 2480, the Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act, will make it easier for law enforcement to use federal grants to fight human trafficking. Learn more here. H.R. 2200, the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act of 2017, renews landmark human trafficking legislation first enacted in 2000. Specifically, it would reauthorize $130 million in funding for the prevention of human trafficking, protection of victims, and prosecution of traffickers. Learn more here.
07.11.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement marking the one-year anniversary of the July 11, 2016, shooting at the Berrien County Courthouse: “One year ago today, our community was shaken by a violent and heinous act that took the lives of two dedicated public servants and threatened the lives of those inside the Berrien County Courthouse. Since that day we have come together in a healing process and seen an outpouring of support for Sheriff Paul Bailey, his department, and all of our local law enforcement and first responders. “Today is a solemn reminder of what we went through and we mark it by remembering Joseph Zangaro, whom I knew personally. He was a widely respected and well-liked former Michigan State Police Trooper and head of courthouse security. We also remember Ronald Kienzle, a U.S. Army veteran and retired Benton Township Police Officer who loved his motorcycle and his family. “What happened right here in our community is a daily reminder of the sacrifices our law enforcement officers, and their families, make every single day in order to keep the rest of us safe and secure. This heartbreaking tragedy happened in the blink of an eye, but we will never forget.” In May, Upton met with the family of Joseph Zangaro at his office in Washington, D.C., as part of National Police Week. The day after the 2016 shooting, Upton took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to speak about the tragedy.
06.29.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today met with Otsego High School Sophomore Cameron “Cami” Hoogstraten, winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District. Cami’s winning piece, “Native American Dancer,” is a digital illustration with typography. The words, including those such as “love,” “home,” and “freedom,” are woven into the dancer’s outfit. It was chosen from more than 50 submissions. “It was great to finally meet Cami, who traveled all the way from Otsego,” said Upton. “The arts play such a big role in our communities, especially for high schoolers looking to express themselves. I’m proud of Cami’s hard work and creativity and look forward to seeing her work hang in the U.S. Capitol for literally thousands to admire.” “I’ve been passionate about art practically my whole life,” said Cami. “I’m honored and excited to be part of such a special event. I can’t wait to see my art hanging in the U.S. Capitol.” As the 2017 Congressional Art Competition winner, Cami and her aunt flew to Washington, D.C., on two complimentary tickets provided by Southwest Airlines. They also took part in a reception honoring winners from across the country. To see Cami’s winning piece of art please click here. To learn more about the Congressional Art Competition please click here.
06.28.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Dearborn, led a bipartisan letter to the White House urging the Trump administration to immediately release the Brandon Road Lock and Dam study. The letter, signed by all 14 members of Michigan’s House Delegation, highlights the study as being the best way to learn how to prevent Asian Carp from entering the Great Lakes. The letter comes on the heels of the discovery of an 8-pound, 28-inch adult silver carp less than 10 miles from Lake Michigan. The letter notes that Asian Carp would have the “potential to decimate the Great Lakes we all love and depend on. It is absolutely imperative we step up our effort to further protect our lakes. The release of the Brandon Road Lock and Dam evaluation is an essential next step to ensure we safeguard our region’s $7 billion fishing industry, $16 billion boating industry, and $18 billion hunting and wildlife observation industry.” The full letter can be found online here or below: President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump: We write to you in support of immediately releasing the Brandon Road Lock and Dam study on how best to prevent Asian Carp from entering the Great Lakes. The recent discovery of a live Silver Carp well beyond the electric barrier and only nine miles from Lake Michigan is very concerning, and the study is crucial to getting a full grasp of our options to stop this destructive force. As you know, the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) first announced the Brandon Road Lock and Dam evaluation in April 2015 as part of the ongoing Great Lakes and Mississippi River Basin Study. This evaluation is intended to provide important guidance on how best to prevent Asian Carp from entering the Great Lakes. Although the Corps initially announced that a draft of the Brandon Road study would be released on February 28, 2017, the release has since been delayed until further notice. Asian Carp have the potential to decimate the Great Lakes we all love and depend on. It is absolutely imperative we step up our effort to further protect our lakes. The release of the Brandon Road Lock and Dam evaluation is an essential next step to ensure we safeguard our region’s $7 billion fishing industry, $16 billion boating industry, and $18 billion hunting and wildlife observation industry. The introduction of Asian Carp would compete with native species, unravel aquatic food chains, and have devastating economic consequences for these industries and others across the entire region. Further delay of the study will only increase the likelihood of a full scale, irreversible inundation of this highly destructive invasive species. Ensuring Asian Carp stay out of these treasured waters that support countless jobs in our region, now and in the future, is of the utmost importance. Our efforts will not stop until the Asian Carp threat is stopped once and for all. We ask you to release this critical study immediately, with strong bipartisan support.
06.28.2017	Today the House Energy and Commerce Committee approved a bipartisan amendment introduced by U.S. Rep. Fred Upton (MI-06) and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12) expressing the sense of the Congress that the governments of the United States and Canada should not allow permanent or long-term storage of spent nuclear fuel or other radioactive waste near the Great Lakes. The amendment comes as Ontario Power Generation (OPG) seeks approval to construct a deep geologic repository for nuclear waste less than one mile from Lake Huron in Kincardine, Ontario. “It’s simple: Permanent radioactive waste storage doesn’t belong anywhere near our Great Lakes,” said Upton. “A spill near this precious natural resource would have devastating effects for public health, drinking water, the environment and our economy. This bipartisan amendment sends the proper signal that we will not sit idly by and allow permanent storage near our beloved Great Lakes. We also must continue the bipartisan push for a permanent nuclear waste repository. I want to thank my friend Debbie Dingell, and our entire Michigan Delegation, for their continued work on this critical issue.” “Today, we are sending a strong, powerful, bipartisan message to our friends and neighbors in Canada that the U.S. Congress is united against storing nuclear waste in or near the Great Lakes,” said Dingell. “The Great Lakes contain more than 20 percent of the world's freshwater supply and are a critical source of drinking water for millions of Americans, as well as Canadians. All of this would be jeopardized if there is a nuclear spill; it is simply a risk we cannot afford to take. We have a moral responsibility to protect these natural resources and we need the Canadian government to understand how strongly we are opposed to putting the Great Lakes at risk to this unacceptable danger.” The Great Lakes delegation has been consistent in their strong opposition to OPG’s proposed nuclear waste site near the Great Lakes. Earlier this month, 32 Members sent a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson urging him to do everything in his power to protect the Great Lakes and convince the Canadian government to select an alternative site. A copy of the letter is available here.
06.27.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced it would withdraw its controversial Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule that would regulate ditches and standing water in farmers’ low-lying fields as federally regulated waterways: “This is a big win for farmers and rural communities here in Southwest Michigan. I have joined my colleagues on both sides of the aisle here in Congress on several different occasions in standing against this ill-advised government overreach. And in fact just today I met with blueberry farmers from Paw Paw and South Haven where we discussed the need for a resolution to this problem. I applaud the EPA and the Trump administration for ditching this harmful rule once and for all.” In 2015, the U.S. House voted on a bipartisan basis to stop the WOTUS rule.
06.23.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, this week joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in voting to advance H.R. 2353, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act by a unanimous vote. “This bipartisan bill will help Americans develop the skills they need to compete for high-skilled, in-demand jobs,” said Upton. “Local career and technical education, or CTE, programs help prepare high school and community college students with the knowledge and hands-on experience necessary to succeed in careers in a broad range of industries. In order to support and grow our middle class, we need to support and grow CTE programs that help countless students succeed. That’s exactly what this bipartisan legislation does and I was proud to support its passage.” “We in Kalamazoo County, both business, industry, and education, thank Fred Upton and all of our U.S. legislators for reauthorizing the CTE Perkins Act,” said Deb Miller, Assistant Superintendent of Secondary Programming for the Kalamazoo Regional Educational Service Agency (KRESA). “CTE is a major part of the pipeline to economic development here in Michigan and a pipeline for a skilled workforce for Kalamazoo County. CTE has a strong history of creating opportunity for students in high school to find their niche in the workforce with skills and credentials.” At its core, H.R. 2353 reforms, modernizes, improves, and reauthorizes the Carl D. Perkins Act. Since 1984, the Carl D. Perkins Act has provided federal support to state and local career and technical education programs. These innovative programs offer local students the opportunity to gain the knowledge, skills, and experience necessary to compete for good-paying jobs in a broad range of fields. Unfortunately, federal law has not been updated in more than a decade, and no longer reflects the realities and challenges facing students and workers in today’s economy. H.R. 2353 would improve the Perkins Act by simplifying the application process for receiving federal funding, improving alignment with in-demand jobs, increasing transparency and accountability to ensure CTE programs deliver results. H.R. 2353 is supported by numerous groups and organizations including the American Farm Bureau Federation, the American Association of Teachers, IBM, the Michigan Manufacturers Association, the National Association of Manufacturers, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
06.23.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after reports that Asian Carp have been discovered beyond the electric barrier and only nine miles from Lake Michigan: “The time to act is now. I am calling on the Trump administration to immediately release the Brandon Road Study so that we can have a full grasp of our options to stop this destructive force. Asian Carp have the potential to decimate the Great Lakes we all love and depend on. It is absolutely imperative we step up our efforts to further protect our lakes. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle here in the House and the Senate to take action to stop Asian Carp from entering our waterways.” Earlier this week, Upton signed on as an original co-sponsor of the Stop Asian Carp Now Act. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation would compel the Trump administration to release the Brandon Road Study within seven days of the bill’s enactment. The Brandon Road study will provide important guidance on how best to prevent Asian Carp from entering the Great Lakes. The entire Michigan Congressional Delegation is in support of this legislation.
06.22.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues on the Subcommittee on Energy and voted to advance five pieces of bipartisan energy security and infrastructure legislation. Among the bills advanced was Upton’s legislation, the Enhancing State Energy Security Planning and Emergency Preparedness Act of 2017. “In the face of ever-evolving physical and cyber threats, today’s vote is a positive step towards modernizing our nation’s energy security and infrastructure,” said Upton. “It builds on our impressive record of addressing energy security, job creation, emergency preparedness, and infrastructure protection. Elevating energy security planning and emergency preparedness is important and timely. Whether it’s a storm that knocks out power to millions of homes and businesses or attempted hacking of our energy grid – we must be prepared. I look forward to continuing to work across the aisle as we move forward in finalizing this important legislation.” In 2015 the president signed into law the FAST Act that made several policy updates to reflect evolving cybersecurity threats to the nation’s energy and electricity systems, including greater Department of Energy (DOE) authority to respond to emergencies. The Enhancing State Energy Security Planning and Emergency Preparedness Act of 2017 improves the emergency planning function established under a 1990 amendment to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act. Specifically, it would provide federal financial assistance to states, like Michigan, to implement, review, and revise State-level energy security plans. The Subcommittee on Energy also advanced four bipartisan bills dealing with hydropower development, gas pipelines, and electric transmission. For more information on these four bills please click here. Upton has chaired the Subcommittee on Energy since January.
06.13.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, last night wrapped up his fifth tele-town hall of the year. Upton has previously held four tele-town halls where more than 5,000 folks participated and 30 questions were asked and answered. You can listen to all of the tele-town halls that have taken place this year online HERE. “I want to thank everyone from Southwest Michigan – 1,644 in total – that participated in last night’s tele-town hall. These innovative forums give folks the unique opportunity to ask me any question under the sun all from the comfort of their home. Last night, I was able to answer six separate questions on issues ranging from healthcare, jobs, infrastructure, the opioid abuse crisis, and more. I look forward to continuing to participate in these thoughtful policy back-and-forths in the coming months.” You can listen to the recording of last night’s tele-town hall HERE. For more information on these tele-town halls, including instructions on how to sign up, please click here.
06.13.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters today announced that President Trump will award the Medal of Honor to Vietnam War Veteran James C. McCloughan on July 31, 2017. This follows legislation passed by Senators Stabenow and Peters and Congressman Upton to make then-Private First Class McCloughan eligible for our nation’s highest military honor. Their legislation passed the Senate as part of the National Defense Authorization Act and was signed into law by President Obama in December of 2016. “Then-Private First Class James McCloughan is an American hero – there is no doubt about that. During close-combat, when his fellow soldiers were in dire need, PFC McCloughan stepped up. His selfless actions saved lives,” said Congressman Upton. “When he was done serving our country, PFC McCloughan quietly returned home to South Haven where he dedicated his life to helping others, as a coach and teacher at South Haven High School. The Medal of Honor is our nation’s highest military honor and we are so proud and deeply grateful for PFC McCloughan’s service. It’s time he finally receives the recognition he duly earned on the battlefield all those years ago.” Then-Private First Class McCloughan, a native and current resident of South Haven, served as a medic and saved the lives of 10 members of his platoon who were wounded during the Battle of Nui Yon Hill on May 13-15, 1969. McCloughan was discharged with the rank of Specialist (SP5). “We are forever grateful for then-Private First Class James McCloughan’s service to our country,” said Senator Stabenow. “Today, we are proud to announce that he is finally getting the recognition he deserves.” “As a Private First Class, James McCloughan risked his life to stay behind in the heat of battle and aid his fellow servicemembers,” said Senator Peters, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and a Former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “He exemplified the values of honor, courage and comradery that makes our military the finest in the world. Awarding James McCloughan the Medal of Honor will finally give him the full recognition he has earned for his bravery and service.” Medal of Honor recipients must be honored within five years of the act of heroism justifying the award. The legislation passed by Senators Stabenow and Peters and Congressman Upton waived the five-year requirement and made it possible for the President to award the Medal of Honor to him. Then-Private First Class McCloughan was highly decorated, receiving the Combat Medical Badge, two Purple Hearts, two Bronze Stars with “V” device for valor, The U. S. Army Valorous Unit Citation, The National Defense Medal, The Good Conduct Medal, The Vietnam Service Medal with three battle stars, The Vietnam Campaign Medal, The Republic of Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with palms and one oak leaf cluster and the M16 Expert Rifle Badge.
06.13.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives advanced S. 1094, the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protecting Act of 2017 by a bipartisan vote of 368 to 55. This legislation now heads to the president’s desk for signature into law. “Veterans here in Michigan and across the country deserve the very highest quality medical care. Despite scandal after scandal, the VA refuses or cannot hold bad actors accountable. It’s not fair to the good employees at the VA. This bipartisan legislation ensures bad actors at the VA are held accountable and face real consequences for their actions. With real accountability in place, we can finally make the changes desperately needed to fix the VA once and for all. Our veterans deserve nothing less.” S. 1094 would streamline the process to remove, demote, or suspend VA employees for poor performance or misconduct, expand whistleblower protections for VA employees who have a complaint, and give the VA Secretary the authority to appoint permanent medical directors who can provide the real leadership that many VA hospitals, and their patients, desperately need. The House previously passed H.R. 1259, the VA Accountability First Act of 2017 on March 16, 2017. The Senate then passed S. 1094. This legislation enjoys the support of veterans groups such as the American Legion, Concerned Veterans for America, the Fleet Reserve Association, Got Your 6, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Military Order of the Purple Heart, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Student Veterans of America, the United States Army Warrant Officers Association, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Vietnam Veterans of America.
06.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after Enbridge completed a successful pressure test over the weekend: “A spill on our Great Lakes would be catastrophic with immediate and long-term harm. This test is a step forward but we must remain vigilant as this is high stakes for our Great Lakes. It is of the utmost importance that Enbridge fully complies with the tough standards we mandated under law. This testing took place thanks in part to bipartisan pipeline safety legislation I helped usher into law in 2016. While this specific test was successful, we must continue to probe Line 5 for any vulnerabilities. I look forward to seeing these additional tests move forward this year for the betterment and safety of the entire Great Lakes region.” In 2016, Upton helped usher the PIPES Act, bipartisan pipeline safety legislation, into law. The PIPES Act included a provision, championed by Upton, which requires increased annual inspections for underwater pipelines such as the Line 5 pipeline that runs under the Straights of Mackinac.
06.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, tonight released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives advanced ten bipartisan energy construction, infrastructure, and efficiency bills. “These ten common-sense, bipartisan bills put job creators first and will boost our economy here in Michigan and across the country. They will also lower costs for ratepayers, reduce emissions, and allow for more domestic energy production. Here in the House we will continue to advance an ‘all-of-the-above’ energy strategy that puts a premium on creating jobs and lifting our economy. I applaud my colleagues from both sides of the aisle for their work in passing this legislation with such overwhelmingly bipartisan support.” After receiving consideration in the Subcommittee on Energy, chaired by Upton, and the full Energy and Commerce Committee, the U.S. House today advanced the following pieces of legislation: H.R. 338, to promote a 21st century energy and manufacturing workforce; H.R. 446, to extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project and H.R. 447, to extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project; H.R. 627, the Streamlining Energy Efficiency for Schools Act of 2017; H.R. 951, to extend deadline for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project; H.R. 1109, to amend section 2013 of the Federal Power Act; H.R. 2122, to reinstate and extend the deadline for commencement of a hydroelectric project involving the Jennings Randolph Dam; H.R. 2274, the HYdropower Permit Extension (HYPE) Act; H.R. 2292, to extend a project of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission involving the Cannonsville Dam; and H.R. 2457, the J. Bennett Johnston Waterway Hydropower Extension Act of 2017. To learn more about these pieces of bipartisan legislation, please click here.
06.09.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, this week joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate in co-sponsoring legislation, authored by U.S. Rep. Jack Bergman, R-Michigan, and U.S Senator Debbie Stabenow, D-Michigan, to authorize construction of a new lock at the Soo Locks in Sault Ste. Marie. “This is about Michigan jobs and our economy. During our bipartisan delegation trip to the Soo Locks we discussed the critical need to upgrade and build a replacement lock, ensuring this vibrant commercial gateway remains open and operational. Not completing this project could lead to significant economic consequences for both Michigan and the country. By investing in our future, we can ensure Michigan stays on the cutting edge of job and economic growth. I look forward to continuing working closely with my Michigan colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get this bipartisan legislation across the finish line.” The legislation, the Soo Locks Modernization Act, authorizes the necessary level of funding to construct another Poe-sized lock (1,200 feet long, 110 feet wide, and 32 feet deep) to facilitate increasing size of vessels passing through the Locks. The Poe is the only lock able to handle large lake freighters sailing the upper Great Lakes bringing iron ore and other materials to manufacturers around the country. A report by the Department of Homeland Security concluded that a six-month closure of the Poe Lock would bring steel production and manufacturing industries to an effective halt and cause Michigan’s unemployment rate to rise as high as 20 percent. The legislation is also co-sponsored by U.S Senator Gary Peters, and U.S. Reps. Sandy Levin, Bill Huizenga, Tim Walberg, Dan Kildee, Mike Bishop, Debbie Dingell, Brenda Lawrence, John Moolenaar, Dave Trott, and Paul Mitchell. To see pictures from Upton’s trip to the Soo Locks, please click here.
06.08.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following video on why passing H.R. 2430, the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017, is vital to good-paying, local jobs for Southwest Michigan. Click HERE to watch the video On Wednesday, the Energy and Commerce Committee advanced H.R. 2430 by a 54 to 0 vote. To learn more about this legislation and what it means for Southwest Michigan, please click here.
06.08.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in advancing H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act, by a vote of 233 to 186. “We all remember the devastating consequences of the Great Recession. Many folks here in Southwest Michigan lost their jobs, their homes, and their sense of financial security. In response, Congress attempted to crack down on Wall Street with the Dodd-Frank Act. Unfortunately, the act also cracked down on small, community-based financial institutions and the job creators that rely on them. “As a result, smaller community banks are being driven out of the market. Approximately 1,900 banks, many of which were community-based, have disappeared since Dodd-Frank become law. That is unacceptable as these institutions are invested in our communities and are often run by our friends and neighbors. Small businesses also suffered from excessive costs and confusion from overlapping regulations, making it harder for them to hire more workers and grow. “The Financial CHOICE Act provides real Wall Street accountability. It ends taxpayer funded bailouts for ‘too-big-to-fail’ Wall Street banks, creates the toughest penalties for Wall Street misdeeds in history, and ensures community-based financial institutions and small businesses can continue to serve Main Street and grow our local economies. The CHOICE Act is a good start and I look forward to seeing the U.S Senate pick up our work.” In 2010, Upton voted against Dodd-Frank – a 2,300-page rewrite of America’s financial laws. This sweeping law, which passed the House strictly along party lines, imposed significant costs on the economy, consumers, investors, small businesses, and jobs. Upton has since advocated for common-sense, bipartisan policies that would reel in Wall Street while also providing much needed regulatory relief for community banks and small businesses. The CHOICE Act is supported by more than 50 groups including the Michigan Bankers Association, the American Civil Rights Union, the American Financial Services Association, the Chamber of Commerce, the Credit Union National Association, the Independent Community Bankers Association of America, the Mid-Size Bank Coalition of America, the National Federation of Independent Business, and the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council.
06.07.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the news that slain Berrien County Courthouse bailiffs Ron Kienzle and Joseph Zangaro are to be honored at tonight’s Detroit Tigers baseball game. Kienzle and Zangaro lost their lives during the Berrien County Courthouse shooting that occurred in July of 2016. They will be honored alongside five other Michigan officers killed in the line of duty last year. “I want to applaud the Detroit Tigers organization for their solemn recognition of Ron Kienzle, Joseph Zangaro, and other fallen Michigan officers. The heartbreaking tragedy in Berrien County occurred in the blink of an eye, but we will never forget. We must continue to keep those affected in our hearts and always remember the ultimate sacrifice Ron, Joe, and others have made on our behalf.” The Tigers play the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim tonight at 7:10 p.m. There will be a special Michigan State Police flyover prior to first pitch and Lieutenant Governor Brian Calley will throw out the ceremonial first pitch. $10 from each ticket sold will be donated to the fund for the National Law Enforcement Museum, which is currently under construction in Washington, D.C. In May, Upton met with the family of Joseph Zangaro as part of National Police Week.
06.07.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the Energy and Commerce Committee voted to advance H.R. 2430, the FDA Reauthorization Act (FDARA) of 2017, by a 54 to 0 vote. H.R. 2430 updates and reauthorizes the FDA user-fee programs for prescription drugs, medical devices, generic drugs, and biosimilar biological products. Additionally, the committee approved 11 energy infrastructure and efficiency bills. “Here in Southwest Michigan we have thousands of jobs that are affected by this legislation – whether on the device side at Stryker, the generics side at Perrigo, the manufacturing side at Pfizer, or the dozens of smaller biotech and manufacturing firms in our communities. Passing this legislation is vital to these good-paying, local jobs as well as to patients who will benefit from the new therapies it helps get to market. Without swift enactment, the FDA will be forced next month to start laying off up to 70 percent of their employees that approve drugs and devices. Now that our groundbreaking, bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act is law, reauthorizing these FDA user-fee programs is an important next step to ensuring these jobs stay here in Michigan and patients across the country benefit from improved, life-saving therapies. “The 11 bipartisan energy bills we voted to advance today will significantly improve our infrastructure and grow our economy. I look forward to building on this momentum as we work to find other areas of bipartisan agreement to create jobs, rehabilitate our nation’s aging drinking-water systems, expand generation of renewable electricity from hydropower, and modernize our energy grid.” To learn more about H.R. 2430, please click here.
06.06.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today met with members of the Pfizer leadership team and CEO Ian Read to discuss their continued multi-million dollar manufacturing plant expansion in Portage. According to a recent economic impact study, the investment along with ongoing site operations bring in more than $2 billion in economic activity annually and 5,680 jobs to the region. “This is truly a great community partnership. I want to commend Pfizer’s leadership for expanding their base right here in Portage. This multi-million dollar investment here at home will mean more good-paying local jobs and improved quality of life for patients across the country,” said Upton. “We also discussed the critical need for bipartisan tax reform to keep this positive growth and job creation going. I was glad to join the leadership team and CEO Ian Read today to learn about the expansion and what we can do at the federal level to continue bringing in these jobs and putting our local manufacturers on a level playing field with the rest of the world.” Additionally, Upton and the leadership team talked about upcoming legislation to reauthorize the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) user fee agreements. H.R. 2430, the FDA Reauthorization Act (FDARA) of 2017 will build on the success of Upton’s 21st Century Cures Act. The legislation is critical for patients, drug and device manufacturers, and the entire health care sector and is seen as a bipartisan, bicameral priority. On Wednesday the Energy and Commerce Committee, of which Upton is a member, is expected to vote on bipartisan legislation. Learn more about this vote here.
06.06.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today praised President Donald Trump’s decision to retain Dr. Francis Collins as Director of the National Institutes of Health: “This is much welcome news for American patients, doctors, researchers, and advocates. For nearly a decade, Dr. Collins has spearheaded the bold agenda at the National Institutes of Health, but he’s spent his entire life as public servant on the cutting-edge of medical research. He worked hand-in-glove with our team from the start to get the groundbreaking 21st Century Cures Act signed into law. Dr. Collins is a friend and I’m very pleased he’s going to continue the innovative work he’s known for on behalf of the American people.”
05.25.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released an updated score for the American Health Care Act (AHCA): “CBO scores are important but not critical – they’re merely one projection of what might happen. Today’s score only reflects a portion of the actions we are taking to fix our broken health care system. According to a new report from the Department of Health and Human Services, premiums in Michigan increased by 90 percent for those on Obamacare’s Individual Market. That’s unacceptable. Now that the AHCA has moved to the Senate, I’m hopeful they can build on our efforts to bring down premiums and increase access to quality health care. We must continue to take constructive action to fix this broken system.”
05.23.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the Trump administration released their proposed Fiscal Year 2018 budget: “As I’ve said before, the president’s budget proposal is just that: A proposal. Many of the proposed cuts to important domestic programs that many Michiganders rely on are, frankly, non-starters. Of particular concern is funding for our Great Lakes and the National Institutes of Health. This process is only beginning. I will continue to advocate for common-sense budgeting that reels in spending, makes government more accountable, but also properly funds essential programs the most vulnerable amongst us depend on.” Funding for Fiscal Year 2017, which ends September 30, is locked in thanks to a bipartisan, bicameral agreement reached earlier this month. Upton has been a vocal opponent of previous budget requests that sought to slash important domestic programs, such as the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and the National Institutes of Health.
05.18.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, tonight released the following statement after former FBI Director Robert Mueller was appointed as special counselor to oversee the federal investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election: “As I’ve said on numerous occasions, the American people deserve answers and we owe it to them to follow the facts wherever they lead. Special counselor Mueller is a man of the highest integrity with a deep background at the FBI. I support this decision to appoint a special counsel so that we can get to the bottom of this issue once and for all.”
05.17.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement in support of the ongoing investigations into whether President Trump attempted to influence or impede the FBI’s investigation as it relates to Lt. General Michael Flynn. Specifically, the House Oversight Committee has requested “all memoranda, notes, summaries, and recordings referring or relating to any communications between Comey and the President.” The deadline for this request is May 24, 2017. Read the letter from the House Oversight Committee here. “Public trust is on the line and the country deserves answers sooner rather than later. I fully support the ongoing efforts to get all of the facts surrounding the firing of FBI Director Comey. I would urge Comey to publicly testify before Congress on what exactly happened. I also remain open to appointing a special prosecutor or setting up an independent investigation as it relates to Russian interference in the 2016 election. We must continue to follow the facts wherever they lead so that we can get to the bottom of this.” Upton has previously called for Attorney General Jeff Sessions to recuse himself in any investigation related to Russian interference, released a public statement reiterating the need for an independent and non-political FBI, and repeated he would be open to supporting a special prosecutor or independent investigation if need be.
05.16.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today met with the family of slain Berrien County Court bailiff, Joseph Zangaro. The Zangaro family was in Washington, D.C. for the National Police Week ceremony. The ceremony included a Memorial Wall service on Monday that honored both Zangaro and Kienzle. The Memorial Wall carries the names of more than 16,000 officers who have been killed in the line of duty. “Joe Zangaro was a special guy who I knew personally. As the head of courthouse security and a retired Michigan State Police Officer he was deeply respected within our community. Gathering with his family today was a chance to recall his spirit but also a solemn reminder of the fateful day that remains forever etched in our hearts. We also remembered the loss of Ronald Kienzle, a U.S. Army veteran and retired Benton Township Police officer,” said Upton. “What happened in our community was a tragedy that intensely reminds us of the sacrifices our law enforcement officers, and their families, make every single day.” National Police Week draws tens of thousands attendees to our nation’s Capitol each year from departments across the United States as well as agencies from around the world to pay tribute to those who have died in the line of duty.
05.10.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after FBI Director James Comey was abruptly fired based on the recommendation of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. “I have always advocated for an independent and non-political FBI. ‘Just the facts, please.’ I am not privy to the justification nor the details behind the firing but the replacement must restore the public confidence immediately. It cannot be a partisan selection. As it relates the Russian investigation, I remain hopeful that the existing bipartisan Congressional committees in the House and Senate can find answers for the many questions. If need be, I would support a special prosecutor at the appropriate time. We must continue to follow the facts wherever they lead.” In March, Upton publicly called for Attorney General Jeff Sessions to recuse himself from the Department of Justice investigation into Russia.
05.04.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in advancing H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act. “We know that Obamacare is broken. One out of three counties across the country have only one insurance provider and it looks like it will only get worse as others are on the verge of pulling the plug. Nearly two dozen of the non-profit co-ops have gone belly up. Here in Michigan folks saw their premiums increased by nearly 17 percent. Some forecast a 40-to-50 percent rate increase if nothing happens. “High premiums, lack of access, rising costs. These don’t just impact Republicans or Democrats. They impact us all. The status quo is simply unacceptable. “Our legislation is a first step in the right direction to ensure all Americans have access to quality, affordable healthcare. We expand and enhance Health Savings Accounts. We provide a reasonable transition until 2020 for those on the Medicaid expansion and then grandfather all those folks until they’re off. We help young adults stay on their parents insurance until they’re 26. We provide a monthly tax credit for low and middle-income individuals and families who don’t receive insurance through work or government program. “We also protect those with pre-existing conditions. I told the president directly this week that I would not support this bill as written without a fix. He took the challenge and we walked him through the problems and potential solutions. Covering those with pre-existing conditions is of the utmost importance to me. Our bill already ensures that insurance companies are prohibited from denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions. Our amendment further protects people from the financial impact associated with having a pre-existing condition. “No, this process has not been perfect. I have heard from many on both sides of this debate. I pledge to continue listening and will be a constructive partner in making our healthcare system work better for all Americans.” Upton also voted in favor of H.R. 2192, which makes a simple technical correction to H.R. 1628 to ensure that the AHCA and its amendments apply equally to everyone. If the AHCA becomes law, members of Congress and congressional staff will be treated the same as any other citizen.
05.03.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, tonight released the following statement on positive updates made to the American Health Care Act: “This week, I expressed my deep concerns with the AHCA as it was written to both President Trump and our leadership. We immediately got to work on a responsible fix. “This amendment would provide additional funding, $8 billion over five years, to ensure a strong safety net and reduce premiums, or other out-of-pocket costs, for those with pre-existing conditions.” “Obamacare is just not working for so many Americans. I’ve been on the record for many years in favor of repealing and replacing Obamacare with responsible solutions that improve affordability and access while protecting those with pre-existing conditions. I believe that with this new funding in place, we keep our promise to those with pre-existing conditions.” A copy of the amendment can be found here.
05.02.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Michigan, re-introduced bipartisan legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives that will champion the STEM education program FIRST Robotics. H.R. 5168, the Christa McAuliffe Commemorative Coin Act of 2017, would mint a $1 coin in honor of Christa McAuliffe, the teacher and astronaut who perished in the 1986 Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, and recognize and support FIRST Robotics. FIRST Robotics is the nation’s leading not-for-profit Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) education program established by inventor Dean Kamen. Once the money is recouped by the U.S. Treasury for the cost of minting the commemorative coin, all of the profits would go to FIRST Robotics. There would be no cost to the taxpayer. “Michigan has the most FIRST Robotics teams in the country. Students on these teams grow up to become inventors, engineers, small business owners, and community leaders,” said Upton. “A few might even end up as the astronauts whose vision extends beyond our world, to new planets and galaxies – just like Christa McAuliffe. It is vitally important that we continue to encourage this type of inventive learning and team building. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to get this legislation passed.” “FIRST Robotics helps students in Michigan reach for the stars – whether they want to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering or mathematics, this innovative programs helps young people gain the real-world knowledge and skills to help solve some of our most pressing future challenges,” said Dingell. “We need to encourage this talent and creativity. This coin provides a pathway to support these efforts while honoring an individual who inspired generations to enter the STEM field. I am proud to work with Rep. Upton and my colleagues to encourage young people to be at the forefront off innovation and technology.” Upton and Dingell are joined by original co-sponsors U.S. Rep. Randy Hultgren, R-Illinois, and U.S. Rep. Suzanne Bonamici, D-Oregon. Upton first introduced the bill last May during the previous Congress.
05.01.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the release of a government funding bill for the remainder of the current fiscal year: “Avoiding a costly government shutdown and funding bipartisan priorities most Americans agree on is great news. I’m particularly pleased to see funding stay level for our Great Lakes and a $2 billion increase for the National Institutes of Health. This NIH funding boost shows a deep commitment to our nation’s best and brightest researchers and doctors. It will pay huge dividends down the line for patients and families. With this agreement we also bolster our nation’s border security, jumpstart the rebuilding of our military – including the largest military pay raise in six years – and provide additional resources for the fight against the ongoing opioid epidemic. This process has not been perfect, but I’m pleased to see a bipartisan agreement move forward.”
04.28.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and U.S. Rep. Dan Kildee (MI-05) led a bipartisan letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt urging the federal agency to not close a regional office serving the Great Lakes region. The letter, signed by Democrats and Republicans in Michigan’s congressional delegation, highlights how the EPA’s Region 5 office currently helps protect the Great Lakes from real threats, including combatting invasive species like Asian carp, as well as helping the people of Flint recover from the ongoing water crisis. The bipartisan congressional letter, in addition to Kildee and Upton, was signed by U.S. Rep. John Conyers (MI-13), U.S. Rep. Sander Levin (MI-09), U.S. Rep. Mike Bishop (MI-08), U.S. Rep. Dave Trott (MI-11), U.S. Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12). “Each year, the Great Lakes generate billions in annual economic activity and support 1.5 million good-paying jobs in the tourism, boating and fishing industries. The Great Lakes also provide drinking water to 48 million people. It is in our national interest to protect the Great Lakes from harm,” the lawmakers’ letter reads. “Our area of the country has unique natural resources, and having a regional office dedicated to protecting them from harm is essential. We strongly support the EPA continuing to operate a regional office located in the Great Lakes region,” the letter continued. The full text of the letter can be found below: Mr. Scott Pruitt Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW Washington, DC 20460 Administrator Pruitt: We write to you in opposition to the closure of the Region 5 office of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency based in the Great Lakes region. If recent press reports are true, the closure of the regional office – which serves Michigan and other states in the Great Lakes region – is very concerning. The Great Lakes drive our region’s economy. Each year, the Great Lakes generate billions in annual economic activity and support 1.5 million good-paying jobs in the tourism, boating and fishing industries. The Great Lakes also provide drinking water to 48 million people. It is in our national interest to protect the Great Lakes from harm. Unfortunately, the Great Lakes also face real threats. From combatting invasive species like Asian carp, to restoring wetland habitat, we must work every day to protect the Great Lakes. Having a regional EPA office situated on the Great Lakes and dedicated to our region ensures a concerted effort to protect our environment and promote public health. This regional office helps to administer the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI), which is showing real and measurable results. But more work remains to protect the Great Lakes, and closing the regional office jeopardizes the progress we have made. EPA’s Region 5 office also helps to ensure that the residents of Flint, Mich., and other communities have clean drinking water. Currently, the regional office is providing ongoing water testing and technical assistance to Flint as it continues to recover from the city’s lead in water crisis. In other areas, they are finding ways to prevent toxins from entering our drinking water through events like harmful algal blooms. The Great Lakes region is best served by an office that has experience and expertise with these regional issues. Our area of the country has unique natural resources, and having a regional office dedicated to protecting them from harm is essential. We strongly support the EPA continuing to operate a regional office located in the Great Lakes region.
04.28.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced that Cameron “Cami” Hoogstraten, a sophomore at Otsego High School, is the winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition for Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District. Her piece, a digital drawing of a Native American dancer, will hang in the hallway of the U.S. Capitol for one year. “This a great selection for Southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “It’s yet another extraordinary piece of art to represent our community in the U.S. Capitol. Congratulations to Cami and everyone who took part in Kalamazoo Institute of Arts 2017 High School Area Show, which has hosted the Congressional Art Competition for four years.” The work, titled “Native American Dancer,” is a digital illustration with typography. The words, including those such as “love,” “home,” and “freedom,” are woven into the dancer’s outfight. It was chosen from more than 50 submissions. Cami, who has been interested in art since “practically my whole life,” and has taken classes at the KIA for pottery and painting, although she typically draws in colored pencils. “This piece was new for me,” Cami said, because she was using Photoshop during a Computer Imaging class, combining a photo she had taken last summer of a male fancy dancer at the Pokagon Pow Wow with the typography. “I’m a Native American myself, from the Citizen Band of the Potawatomi Nation, and I thought it would be a great picture to create typography out of. It took a long time and a lot of work, but it came out great." Winning the Congressional Art Competition for the Sixth Congressional District is an honor “and I am so excited to be part of something,” she said. As the winner, Cami and a guest will be invited to participate in a recognition ceremony in Washington, D.C., for all of the Congressional Art Competition winners. Cami is 16 and the daughter of Lurinda and Steven Hoogstraten. Her art teacher is Matthew Grile. The High School Area Show, which opened Thursday, will run through June 4 although Cami’s piece will make an early exit in order to get to the U.S. Capitol. In addition, Cami was also awarded a Portfolio Camp Tuition Scholarship for Kendall College of Art & Design and received a Juror’s Honorable Mention Award. More than $600,000 worth of prizes and scholarships were awarded during the 36th annual High School Area Show included the Cleveland Institute of Art and the Gwen Frostic School of Art at Western Michigan University. This year’s juror was Julie W. Tourtillotte, professor of art at Saint Mary’s College in Notre Dame, Ind. Each exhibiting artist was awarded a family members to the KIA through the end of summer. Winners and participants are: Juror's Award, $100 cash awards to: Eli Hart, Portage Northern High School Erica Heathcote, Saint Joseph High School Ashton Ingles, Wayland Union High School Erin Kirkpatrick, Kalamazoo Central High School Willa Kuttner, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Alexandra Ziebarth, Water Street Glassworks Juror's Honorable Mention awards to: Taylor Bell, Schoolcraft High School Sarah Brabon, Vicksburg High School Bella Chadwick, Portage Northern High School Evangeline Contreras, Van Buren Technology Center Jaymie Daniel Gapayao, Vicksburg High School Anthony Fund, Three Rivers High School Samuel Gonzales, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Amelia Hansen, Portage Northern High School Cameron Hansen, Kirk Newman Art School Cameron Hoogstraten, Otsego High School Madeline Jump, Portage Central High School Nchuyekeh Mba, Portgae Northern High School Malaynah Leach, Vicksburg High School Madison McAllister, Portage Central High School Lili Mead, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Hanna Norland, Saint Joseph High School Haley Rich, Saint Joseph High School Emily Roth, Saint Joseph High School Courtney Shinaberry, Saint Joseph High School Samantha Veltrie, Three Rivers High School Chelsea Whelham, Portage Central High School SCHOLARSHIP AWARD WINNERS Representatives from each school selected their respective scholarship winners Cleveland Institute of Art awarded pre-college summer program scholarships to: Makala Carr, Centreville High School Emma Neuser, Saint Joseph High School Alexandra Ziebarth, Water Street Glassworks Cleveland Institute of Art awarded four-year scholarships to: Amelia Hansen, Portage Northern High School Malaynah Leach, Vicksburg High School Sarah Wheaton, Paw Paw High School Kendall College of Art and Design, Ferris State University awarded Portfolio Camp scholarships to: Makala Carr, Centreville High School Cameron Hoogstraten, Otsego High School Emma Neuser, Saint Joseph High School Kendra Eaton, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Lili Mead, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Malaynah Leach, Vicksburg High School Amelia Hansen, Portage Northern High School Haley Rich, Saint Joseph High School Kendall College of Art and Design, Ferris State University awarded Seniors for $cholarship awards to: Evangeline Contreras, Van Buren Tech Center Jaymie Daniel Gapayao, Vicksburg High School Ashton Ingles, Wayland Union High School Eli Hart, Portage Northern High School Maggie Palmiter, Watervliet High School Gwen Frostic School of Art, Western Michigan University awarded four-year scholarships to: Kendra Eaton, Loy Norrix HS Chelsea Whelham, Portage Central HS Emma Neuser, St. Joseph HS Amelia Hansen, Portage Northern HS Alexandria Seybold, Portage Northern HS Madison McAllister, Portage Central HS Stamps School of Art and Design, University of Michigan awarded a BFA Preview pre-college scholarship to: Kendra Eaton, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Milwaukee Institute of Art and Design awarded Full Ride Scholarship Award to: Erica Heathcote, Saint Joseph High School Presidential Scholarship Award to Hanna Norland, Saint Joseph High School BFA Admissions Scholarship Awards to: Emily Roth, Saint Joseph High School Haley Rich, Saint Joseph High School Amelia Hansen, Portage Northern High School Sarah Wheaton, Paw Paw High School Kirk Newman Art School at the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts awarded scholarships for a summer class to: Erin Kirkpatrick, Kalamazoo Central High School Chelsea Whelham, Portage Central High School Samantha Veltrie, Three Rivers High School Sierra Stevens, Vicksburg High School Ashton Ingles, Wayland Union High School The KIA also wishes to thank the school districts and art teachers that nurtured the student artists: Julie Beam, St. Joseph High School Sarah Bentley, Paw Paw High School Rebecca Carter, Kalamazoo Central High School Matt Culver, St. Joseph High School Holly Davis, Stevensville Lakeshore High School Matthew Douglas, Kalamazoo Central High School Ashley Eby, Three Rivers High School Trevor Grabill, KIA Kirk Newman Art School Matthew Grile, Otsego High School Scott Gundersen, Wayland Union High School Jaime Hilaski, Schoolcraft High School Elizabeth Honeysett, Portage Central High School Marcella Hunt, Watervliet High School Joseph King, Portage Central High School Anthony Lindeman, Vicksburg High School Sarah Nott, Portage Northern High School Sarah Parr, KIA Kirk Newman Art School Krista Ragotzy, Vicksburg High School Ashley Rolfe, Centreville High School Lisa Rostar, South Haven public school Veronica Schaner, Hackett Catholic Prep Gregg Stevens, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Harry Sykora, Kalamazoo Central High School Michael VanderWaal, Water Street Glassworks Cindy Van Lieu, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Ben Weathers, Mattawan High School Kimberly Wood, Van Buren Technology Center Jule Zaroff, Berrien Springs Home School Partnership
04.28.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted 382 to 30 in favor of a Continuing Resolution that maintains appropriations for Fiscal Year 2017 and keeps the government open. “Today’s vote ensures essential federal services remain open and operational and that our armed services continue to receive the support they deserve. This short-term Continuing Resolution also allows us more time to come to consensus on future appropriation bills. It is my sincere hope that we can find bipartisan common ground as we move forward in this process and continue funding important domestic programs such as the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and the National Institutes of Health. There is more work to do and I look forward to rolling up my sleeves and getting the job done.”
04.20.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today applauded the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announcement of the first round of grants to help states and territories combat the opioid epidemic. These grants were made available as part of Upton’s bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act. The $485 million in grants will be administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) and will be used towards the prevention and treatment of opioid abuse. “It seems like everyone I meet is in some way impacted by this tragic opioid epidemic,” said Upton. “These grants will directly help those in need here in Southwest Michigan and across the country. I applaud the administration for getting these grants out in an expedited manner. As part of our bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act we fought hard to include this funding to aid in this public health crisis. Now, we’re delivering. To those in the midst of this fight: Help is on the way.” According to HHS, the State of Michigan was awarded $16,372,680 in this first round of grants.
04.17.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on a report that the federal government is considering closing the Chicago-based Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region 5 office: “If true, this report is shocking and I would strongly oppose the closing of the Region 5 office. We must not turn our backs on the safety, health, and future of the Great Lakes. Whatever the deficiencies of the Region 5 office, the folks there do play a critical role in protecting human health and the environment. In fact, it was my bipartisan legislation that would help make important reforms. I will continue to work with colleagues on both sides of the aisle in opposition to any cuts to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and the closing of this office. We must work together to protect the natural resources we all know and love.” Background: The EPA Region 5 office has spearheaded issues such as the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, the Flint drinking water response, and Superfund sites in Region 5. The office serves Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio and Michigan. Upton has previously expressed full support for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is critical to the health of the Great Lakes.
04.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the news that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is responding to a chemical spill at the U.S. Steel facility in Portage, Indiana. “This must be an all-hands-on-deck effort. If there is one thing that unites us it’s the need to protect our Great Lakes. Any chemical spill so close to Lake Michigan is cause for great concern. As we’ve seen with BP and Flint before, we must ensure clean water for everyone. We have been in contact with the EPA and they’ve assured me they are working hard to contain this spill.” You can find more information on this spill from the EPA on their dedicated website HERE.
04.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after Western Michigan University named Dr. Edward Montgomery as the ninth president of the university. “Today is a good day to be a Bronco. This is great fit for Western Michigan University and our entire Kalamazoo community. I congratulated Dr. Montgomery earlier on his new role and look forward to working closely with him, just as I did with Dr. Dunn, as we make Southwest Michigan an attractive home to the leaders of the future.”
04.10.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced he will continue his series of tele-town halls with the next one happening Tuesday, April 11. The tele-town hall will tentatively begin at 5 p.m. It will last approximately one hour. “These innovative tele-town halls allow for thousands of Southwest Michigan residents to make their voices heard,” said Upton. “Anyone on the call can ask me a direct question on any issue, participate in interactive polls so I can see where they stand, and hear my stance on specific legislation. I look forward to engaging with folks who are taking an active role in our democratic process.” Upton has held three tele-town halls this year with more than 4,000 participants total and nearly 30 questions being asked and answered. You can listen to recordings of these tele-town halls here. Those interested in signing up for the tele-town hall or looking for additional information should contact any of Upton’s three offices, or by visiting Upton’s dedicated webpage on tele-town halls here.
04.07.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after the United States launched missile strikes on a Syrian airfield in response to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad using chemical weapons to kill his own people: “After Assad delivered a heinous chemical attack on his own citizens, an unmistakable message had to be delivered. I believe these targeted, measured airstrikes were an appropriate response to the unfolding atrocities. As we move forward, the administration must work with Congress and the international community to support these efforts.” Additional background: In April, Upton visited the Bethany Christian Services Refugee Center in Grand Rapids to better understand the challenges refugees, including those from Syria, are facing. He will continue to support the humane and just treatment of refugees from war-torn regions.
04.06.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the news that House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-California, was stepping aside from the House investigation into whether Russia meddled in last year’s president election. “I continue to support the bipartisan investigations occurring in the House and the Senate. Based on what happened, it’s appropriate that Chairman Nunes steps away from this investigation. I remain confident that my colleagues in both the House and Senate will oversee professional, bipartisan investigations into Russia’s actions. We must follow the facts wherever they lead.”
04.06.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, alongside U.S. Rep. Gene Green, D-Texas, introduced H.R. 1920, a bill that would ensure cancer patients across the country continue to have access to life-saving treatments and care. H.R. 1920 addresses a flawed Medicare reimbursement formula that results in some providers not being adequately paid for their services. “Here in Michigan we have 19 dedicated cancer centers including the Lakeland HealthCare Marie Yeager Cancer Center in St. Joseph,” said Upton. “Our common-sense, bipartisan legislative fix corrects the Medicare reimbursement formula that currently threatens the distribution of cancer care drugs across the country. This will ensure patients continue to receive the highest quality cancer care available. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle here in the House and in the Senate to move this bill forward.” “The prompt pay discount is affecting the delivery of treatment to our seniors and having an adverse impact on physicians and their patients in communities across the country,” said Green. “This needed fix of the Medicare reimbursement formula will help maintain the type of robust provider network we need to ensure quality healthcare options for Medicare beneficiaries in the years to come.” Community-based cancer centers provide treatment to more than 80 percent of the nation’s new cancer patients. Ensuring more appropriate payment amounts for cancer drugs under Medicare Part B would help protect these cancer centers. So-called “prompt pay” discounts are contractually provided terms from pharmaceutical manufacturers to drug distributors. Prompt pay discounts compensate distributors for the costs of shipping, handling, and distributing drugs to providers. Under current law, the inclusion of these discounts in Medicare’s payment formula artificially lowers reimbursement rates for providers, which harms patient access to high-quality care. H.R. 1920 would fix the Medicare reimbursement formula by removing customary prompt pay discounts from the calculation to ensure that providers receive fair reimbursement. Other original co-sponsors of H.R. 1920 include Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, Rep. John Shimkus, R-Illinois, and Rep. Pat Tiberi, R-Ohio. These bipartisan efforts enjoy the support of patient groups such as the Association of Community Cancer Centers, the National Patient Advocate Foundation, the American Society of Clinical Oncology, and the Community Oncology Alliance.
04.04.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-Michigan, and U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, sent a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney to express opposition to any cuts to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Fiscal Year 2017 or 2018 budget. “NIH research saves millions of lives every year making the basic discoveries that allow businesses to develop new treatments, medications, and cures for patients,” write Upton and DeGette. “In FY16, investments in biomedical research directly supported over 379,000 jobs and indirectly supported another 1.62 million Americans working in the bioscience industry, powering $65 billion in economic growth nationwide. Those investments will be crucial to controlling long-term entitlement costs. Today, 1 out of 3 Medicare dollars is spent on diabetes-related care, and 1 out of 5 Medicare dollars is spent on Alzheimer’s related care. Without new research to find cures, these diseases will bankrupt our nation. “This is not a partisan issue. Disease isn’t Democratic or Republican. Congress voted to reinvest in NIH research because we recognize its remarkable return on investment for the American people, and so we oppose any cuts to the NIH budget in FY17 or FY18. NIH research saves lives, creates jobs, controls long-term entitlement costs, protects our national security, and advances our global leadership, all while bringing renewed hope to patients and families across the country.” To read the full letter, please click here. In 2016, Upton and DeGette lead the successful 21st Century Cures effort that invested $4.8 billion to accelerate life-saving research at the NIH. The 21st Century Cures Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a 392-26 vote and in the Senate by a 94-5 margin. It was signed into law on December 13, 2016, by President Obama.
04.03.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in advancing two pieces of bipartisan legislation to address urgent threats posed by North Korea’s Kim Jong Un regime. Just today, a North Korean defector spoke to NBC and warned the U.S. and allies that the “world should be ready” to deal with Kim Jung Un. “In recent weeks, North Korea has escalated their threats against American lives. In response to these troubling provocations, we have taken action,” said Upton. “Today’s measures push the State Department to determine whether North Korea should be re-listed as a State Sponsor of Terrorism and officially condemn their development of nuclear weapons. As we move forward, we must be clear-eyed in our resolve to protect our citizens from this rogue state.” H.R. 479, the North Korea State Sponsor of Terrorism Designation Act of 2017, would urge the State Department to designate North Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism. Consequences of a state sponsors of terrorism designation include a ban on arms-related exports and sales: restrictions on exports of dual-use items; restrictions on foreign assistance; financial sanctions against transactions with the designated government; imposition of miscellaneous trade and other restrictions; and potential liability in United States courts for acts that fall within the terrorism exception of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act. H.R. 479 was advanced by a bipartisan 394 to 1 vote. H.Res. 92 – Condemning North Korea’s development of multiple intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICMBs), and for other purposes, would condemn these developments and also urge the United States to apply all available economic sanctions on North Korea. H.Res. 92 was advanced by a bipartisan 398 to 3 vote.
03.29.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today applauded the creation of a special commission aimed at battling the ongoing opioid addiction epidemic. “Fighting this tragic opioid epidemic is personal to families in Southwest Michigan and across the country. We need to help those caught in the web of this unforgiving addiction through improving treatment, reforming prescribing practices, and working with our law enforcement. Last Congress, we were able to usher the 21st Century Cures Act into law, which provided $1 billion for drug treatment. I look forward to engaging with President Trump, the Commission, and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle here in Congress as we continue working together to end this scourge.” The Centers for Disease Control estimates that more than 33,000 people died from opioids in 2015 including nearly 2,000 in Michigan alone.
03.23.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the Supreme Court Nomination Hearing: “Over the course of these past four days, Judge Gorsuch has proven himself a man of the highest character. His unwavering commitment to the rule of law will make him an outstanding member of the Supreme Court. I have no doubt he will serve our country with distinction and uphold our Constitution. I want to again urge my colleagues in the Senate to swiftly confirm Judge Gorsuch."
03.17.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on news that the city of Flint, Michigan has been awarded a $100 million emergency grant to fund drinking-water infrastructure: “These much-needed funds will provide a huge benefit to the people of Flint. We worked extremely hard, on a bipartisan basis, to make sure this funding was included in the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act. From the start of this crisis, I have been an outspoken proponent of aid for Flint. The federal government had a role to play in this tragedy, and so the federal government bears responsibility to help make the situation right. I was proud to support these efforts and will continue to work with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to upgrade our nation’s water infrastructure needs.”
03.15.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following photo and statement after meeting with a group of Southwest Michigan farmers in his Washington, D.C., office. “Today’s meeting was productive and informative. Farmers are the backbone of our Southwest Michigan economy and we discussed ways we can work together to improve their economic outlook and provide much-needed certainty so they can plan for the future. We also had a frank and open talk about our broken immigration system and the negative effect it has on our agricultural labor workforce. I continue to stand with our farmers and look forward to being a constructive partner into the future.” Background: Upton has long-supported bipartisan immigration reform. He recently co-sponsored legislation, H.R. 1468, the Recognizing America’s Children Act, that provides legal status to undocumented children and young adults. This legislation would provide certainty for many families and local farmers dependent on migrant labor. Learn more about this legislation here. Learn more about Upton’s support of Southwest Michigan farmers here.
03.07.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement in regards to the American Health Care Act (ACHA) – House Republicans’ legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare: “This has not been easy, but as I’ve listened to folks on all sides of this debate one thing is clear: Obamacare has not delivered on countless promises. Clearly, the current system is not working for many. It’s time to fix our healthcare system in a responsible way. To ensure no one has the rug pulled out from under them, our legislation provides a stable transition period for those currently enrolled in Obamacare and for states like Michigan that expanded Medicaid. We deny insurance companies the ability to discriminate against those with pre-existing conditions and allow young adults to stay on their parent’s insurance until age 26. We also expand health savings accounts, and encourage small employers to band together to provide health insurance to their employees. All while eliminating the individual and employer mandate penalties and harmful Obamacare taxes such as the medical device tax. I also believe the American people deserve an open and transparent debate on these issues, and look forward to beginning this week. I will continue to work with local leaders, patients, healthcare providers, our governors, and all others wanting to be constructive as we move forward in this process.” The Energy and Commerce Committee, of which Upton is a member, is scheduled to hold a markup of the bill Wednesday. The legislation is available for anyone to read at readthebill.gop
03.03.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today issued the following statement on reports that funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) will be cut for Fiscal Year 2018: “These reports are alarming. We have previously communicated with the new administration that our Great Lakes must be a priority and the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative must be fully funded. Congress will have the final say on all budgetary matters and we are only at the first step in the appropriations process which actually funds the program. As we move forward, I will be fighting hard alongside colleagues on both sides of the aisle so we can turn this around and make sure our Great Lakes are properly protected.” In February, Upton joined colleagues on the Great Lakes Task Force in sending a letter encouraging the Trump administration to focus on the Great Lakes and fully fund the GLRI.
03.02.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, U.S. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow and U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell called on the Trump Administration to prioritize the development and testing of connected and self-driving vehicles in the President’s proposed budget for 2018. The Members of Congress sent a letter to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Mick Mulvaney and Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Elaine Chao urging them to include $200 million in their 2018 federal budget request for facilities designated by DOT as proving grounds for automated vehicle testing. In January, DOT designated ten sites across the country as national proving grounds, including the American Center for Mobility in Ypsilanti. “The auto industry is in the midst of a seismic technological shift that will revolutionize the transportation of people and goods in our lifetime…Ensuring that American innovators can safely develop and implement this technology will not only save lives but also solidify our nation’s position as the world leader in the future of mobility,” wrote the Members in the letter. “Identifying and selecting these initial proving grounds was a crucial first step, but USDOT must now work quickly to ensure that testing and evaluation at these facilities can begin as soon as possible. Technology in this area is changing rapidly, and only through thorough testing can we both encourage innovation and assure public confidence in these revolutionary technologies.” The letter calls for federal funding to help support the development of automated vehicle proving grounds and promote safe testing to validate these self-driving technologies and ensure they are ready for use on American roads. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), more than 35,000 people are killed on our roads and highways annually. Connected and self-driving vehicle technologies have the potential to reduce accidents and save thousands of lives. The American Center for Mobility was one of ten sites to earn a federal designation. Famous as the site of the former Willow Run plant which manufactured one B-24 bomber every hour during World War II, the American Center for Mobility will be a world-class connected and automated vehicle proving ground that will keep Michigan and the United States at the forefront of the mobility transformation. The full text of the letter can be found here or below: The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director Office of Management and Budget Eisenhower Executive Office Building 1650 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20503 Dear Director Mulvaney: As you prepare the President’s Budget for Fiscal Year 2018, we write to urge the inclusion of funding within the Department of Transportation’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s account to support the safe testing and deployment of connected and automated vehicle (CAV) technologies at federally-designated proving grounds. The auto industry is in the midst of a seismic technological shift that will revolutionize the transportation of people and goods in our lifetime. Connected and self-driving vehicles have the potential to reduce dramatically the more than 35,000 lives lost on our roads and highways every year and to transform fundamentally the way we get around. Ensuring that American innovators can safely develop and implement this technology will not only save lives but also solidify our nation’s position as the world leader in the future of mobility. It is critical that the Federal government play a leadership role in ensuring that CAV technologies are safely developed and tested in a thorough and thoughtful manner, aligned with voluntary industry standards. The Department of Transportation, recognizing this urgent need, last year solicited proposals from facilities across the country to be designated as USDOT Automated Vehicle Proving Grounds. The intent was to form an initial network of proving grounds focused on the advancement of automated vehicle technology. After evaluating more than 60 applicants under a rigorous and detailed set of selection criteria, USDOT chose ten proving grounds with complementary features and capabilities. Together, those facilities collectively form a federal Community of Practice around the safe testing and deployment of CAV technologies. Identifying and selecting these initial proving grounds was a crucial first step, but USDOT must now work quickly to ensure that testing and evaluation at these facilities can begin as soon as possible. Technology in this area is changing rapidly, and only through thorough testing can we both encourage innovation and assure public confidence in these revolutionary technologies. We therefore urge that the 2018 budget include funding of $200 million for these USDOT-designated proving grounds. This is the same amount requested in the 2017 budget for autonomous vehicle research. USDOT should be directed to use such funds to support the development of these ten proving grounds and to promote the creation and sharing of best practices for safely conducting testing and operations, which will accelerate the pace of safe deployment. Thank you for your consideration of our request, and we look forward to working with you in your new position on this and other national priorities.
02.28.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, tonight released the following statement after President Trump’s Joint Address to Congress: “President Trump’s address was a focused, optimistic vision for the future of our country. He offered common ground on goals we can all agree on such as creating American jobs, making needed investments in our infrastructure, delivering for our veterans, and rebuilding our healthcare system. I also fully support the president’s call to safely speed approvals for life-saving drugs and devices which is exactly what our groundbreaking 21st Century Cures Act does. As we move forward, I continue to believe we are better served by working together. My hope is that we will see more bipartisan cooperation so that we can get the job done for the American people.”
02.23.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after co-sponsoring H.R. 1121, the Pre-Existing Conditions Protection Act of 2017. “As I’ve traveled across Southwest Michigan this week, listened to folks during tele-town halls, and participated in public forums, I’ve heard a clear message: We need to guarantee our healthcare system works better for all Michiganders. This is why I am committed to protecting patients living with pre-existing conditions. It’s only fair. We want to make sure we’re helping folks across the country get – and keep – healthcare coverage, regardless of how healthy or sick they may be. As we continue listening and engaging in constructive dialogue with all stakeholders, it’s important that as we repeal and replace Obamacare, we’re always doing right by patients and protecting our most vulnerable. I remain committed to patient-centered healthcare reforms that increase access to quality, affordable care for folks here in Michigan and across the country.” The Pre-Existing Conditions Protection Act, introduced by U.S. Rep. Greg Walden, R-Oregon, aims to guarantee access to coverage, prohibit pre-existing condition exclusions, and ban premium rating based off of health status. Specifically, it would amend the Public Health Service Act to prohibit application of pre-existing condition exclusions and to guarantee availability of health insurance coverage in the individual and group markets. On Monday, Upton met with several constituents in his St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office to discuss healthcare reform. On Tuesday, he participated in a panel discussion at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker, M.D. School of Medicine on healthcare issues. Upton has also held two tele-town halls this month where healthcare issues were heavily discussed.
02.23.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced he will continue his series of tele-town halls with the next one happening Tuesday Feb. 28. The tele-town hall will tentatively begin at 5 p.m., depending on the voting schedule in the U.S. House of Representatives. It will last approximately one hour. “Engaging with folks who are taking an active role in our democratic process is of the utmost importance to me,” said Upton. “These innovative tele-town halls allow for thousands of Southwest Michigan residents to ask me direct questions on any issue, participate in interactive polls so I can see where they stand, and hear my stance on specific legislation. During the last two tele-town halls this month, I’ve fielded dozens of questions and heard from a wide variety of my constituents. Some agree, and some don’t – but it’s crucial that I’m able to hear their concerns directly and then take action.” Upton previously held a tele-town hall on February 6th where more than 1,300 participants and another on February 15th where more than 1,700 participated. Those interested in signing up for the tele-town hall or looking for additional information should contact any of Upton’s three offices, or by visiting Upton’s website: Upton.house.gov.
02.20.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement marking the one-year anniversary of the Feb. 20, 2016, Kalamazoo shootings: "One year ago, a madman attempted to rip our community apart. These inexplicable actions reverberated across the country and brought to our corner of the state a level of pain we have never experienced before. But now, we stand together stronger than ever against hatred and violence. “We remember the six victims snatched from our world far too soon: Mary Jo Nye, a well-respected English teacher; Barbara Hawthorne, a former Kellogg’s employee; Dorothy Brown, known in her neighborhood for her herb garden; Mary Lou Nye, a preschool and early childcare advocate; Tyler Smith, a well-liked student at Mattawan High School; and Richard Smith, a construction manager and loving father and husband. “We also keep in our hearts and minds the two fearless survivors. Abigail Kopf, whose courage in the face of unimaginable pain serves as a daily reminder of bravery and hope, and Tiana Carruthers who selflessly put herself in harm’s way without thinking twice. We again thank our law enforcement and first responders who prevented this tragedy from being even worse. “The pain of the past never fully recedes, but when we look to the horizon – to a bright new day – we are able to find hope and renewed spirit amongst our friends, neighbors, and fellow community members. On this day of solemn remembrance, we do not turn to the right nor to the left, but instead we turn from evil.”
02.14.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in advancing a pair of bipartisan bills to help our nation’s veterans. “Voting to improve the lives of our brave men and women in uniform is always the easiest vote for me to make. Tonight was no different,” said Upton. “A major problem for returning veterans, especially those serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, is finding civilian employment. These bipartisan bills will encourage businesses here in Southwest Michigan and across the country to hire and retain our veterans. I was proud to support these common-sense bills, applaud their bipartisan passage, and look forward to their swift consideration in the Senate.” H.R. 244, the HIRE Vets Act, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Paul Cook, R-California, requires the Department of Labor (DOL) to establish the HIRE Vets Medallion Program within two years of enactment, to annually recognize private-and-public sector businesses for their efforts to employ veterans. H.R. 244 was advanced by the House on a bipartisan 409 to 1 vote. H.R. 974, the Boosting Rates of American Veteran Employment (BRAVE) Act, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Kathleen Rice, D-New York, allows the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, when awarding procurement contracts for goods or service, to give preference to government contractors that employ veterans on a full-time basis. The bill would also allow the Secretary to debar contractors who purposely misrepresent their employment of veterans to receive a contract. H.R. 974 was advanced by the House on a bipartisan 407 to 0 vote.
02.10.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined colleagues on the Congressional Great Lakes Task Force in sending a bipartisan letter to President Donald J. Trump encouraging the new administration to work with the task force in advancing priorities vital to protecting and promoting the Great Lakes. “Growing up on the shores of Lake Michigan instilled in me a deep appreciation for our Great Lakes,” said Upton. “I have always worked in a responsible, bipartisan manner to improve the health and beauty of these precious natural resources. I appreciate the new administration’s willingness to engage on these important issues and look forward to working with them to promote, strengthen, and preserve our Great Lakes.” The letter highlights several initiatives important to the Great Lakes Task Force, a bipartisan, Congressional Members Organization with the mission of advocating for the strongest policies and programs that enhance the Great Lakes. Those initiatives include: · Funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) · Responding to the threats of nonnative invasive species such as Asian Carp · Improving and upgrading water infrastructure, including investments to modernize the Soo Locks in Sault. Ste. Marie You can read the full letter online here. Upton has a long history of fighting for the Great Lakes. From keeping pollutants out of Lake Michigan, leading the successful effort to ban synthetic plastic microbeads, championing pipeline safety legislation, fighting invasive species such as Asian Carp, and more. Learn more about his work here.
02.03.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, introduced legislation, H.R. 829, the Prioritizing the Most Vulnerable Over Lottery Winners Act of 2017, in the U.S. House of Representatives that would strengthen Medicaid for those who need it most. “Medicaid is meant to help the most vulnerable amongst us – not high-dollar Lottery winners,” said Upton. “Our common-sense solution would alter how Medicaid eligibility is determined for those lucky enough to hit it big playing the Lottery, while continuing to prioritize the low-income population the program is meant to assist. I will continue to work on a bipartisan basis to strengthen critical programs like Medicaid to ensure they best serve our communities.” Under Medicaid regulations, income received as a lump sum, such as lottery winnings, is counted as income only in the month received. As a result, states are effectively not allowed to dis-enroll lottery winners from Medicaid. This forces taxpayers to bear the burden of paying the health care benefits for individuals who no longer require assistance. H.R. 829 will close this loophole by requiring states to count monetary winnings from lotteries of $80,000 or more as if they were obtained over multiple months, even if obtained in a single month. In 2015, Upton created a Medicaid Task Force to strengthen and sustain the critical program and has a long record of working hard to ensure programs like Medicare and Medicaid are there for those that need them now and solvent for future generations.
01.31.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, made the following statement regarding President Trump’s nominee to the Supreme Court: “I carefully watched President Trump’s announcement and was pleased and vastly impressed with Judge Gorsuch’s credentials and gracious remarks. I have no doubt that he will serve our country with distinction and uphold our Constitution. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to quickly confirm him as they did unanimously before.”
01.30.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, after careful consideration of the facts, today released the following statement: “I fully support strengthening our screening processes and securing our borders, but this Executive Order needs to be scaled back. It has created real confusion for travelers and those who enforce the laws. I have heard from a number of local folks with valid concerns for themselves or loved ones as well from global companies that have legitimate worries relating to the international travel of their employees. A wiser course would have been to work with Congress to ensure that all visitors to our nation are properly vetted with appropriate documentation. Moving forward, I will continue to advocate for common-sense, bipartisan policies that protect America but also stay true to our values.” Background: In late 2015, Upton openly rejected calls for a travel ban based on religion.
01.24.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined Energy and Commerce Chairman Greg Walden, R-Oregon, and Subcommittee on Environment John Shimkus, R-Illinois, in releasing the following statement after President Trump signed executive actions regarding the Keystone and Dakota Access pipelines. “We welcome today’s news and we’re looking forward to working with a president and an administration that value American energy affordability, jobs, security, and new infrastructure development. It is time for the federal government to stop picking winners and losers in the energy sector.” Upton has been a long-time bipartisan leader in pursuing an “all-of-the-above” energy strategy and also working to ensure our pipeline infrastructure is as safe and secure as possible.
01.23.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after speaking on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in favor of four bipartisan energy bills that unanimously passed the House and now move to the Senate for consideration. “These are four common-sense, bipartisan bills that will encourage job creation, increase accountability, and improve safety and affordability for consumers. As the new Congress gets underway, we will continue to advance solutions that ensure affordable energy for all American families. I applaud my colleagues for their hard work on these bills and look forward to the Senate taking them up in the coming weeks.” H.R. 511, the Power and Security (PASS) Act, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Peter Welch, D-Vermont, would extend existing exemptions for security and life safety alarms from 2017 to 2023. It is virtually impossible for devices such as security alarms or smoke detectors that have to continuously be on to meet current Department of Energy (DOE) regulations because the regulations did not originally make accommodations for these “always on” products. This legislation would help protect both the jobs of those who make these products as well as the life and property of those who rely upon them. A nearly identical version of this bill passed in 2015. H.R. 587, the Fair RATES Act, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Joseph Kennedy, D-Massachusetts, sets forth processes to set rates for electricity, including the opportunity for the public to protest a rate change filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The legislation was advanced by the Energy and Commerce Committee during the 114th Congress by a voice vote and unanimously passed the House. H.R. 590, the Advanced Nuclear Technology Development Act of 2017, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Bob Latta, R-Ohio, will help American innovators and entrepreneurs develop and license advanced nuclear technologies by updating the regulatory framework to be more adaptive, technology-inclusive, and predictable. This bill ensures that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has the necessary expertise and resources to review and license new technologies and was advanced by the Energy and Commerce Committee during the 114th Congress by a voice vote unanimously passed the House. H.R. 518, EPS Improvement Act of 2017, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, provides a carefully tailored solution to the problem manufacturers have faced trying to comply with DOE efficiency standards for external power supplies (EPS). The legislation carves out an exception for these devices, often found in certain types of ceiling fans and light-emitting diodes (LED) devices. The House advanced this bill in 2015. Upton was selected as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy for the 115th Congress. This important panel has jurisdiction over national energy policy.
01.13.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to advance a budget resolution that instructs House and Senate committees to begin work on legislation to repeal major portions of Obamacare: “As I have been meeting with local, state, and federal leaders most are in agreement that the healthcare status quo is not working for many families. What we’re focused on is presenting Michiganders a better way forward. Our goal is keeping folks covered and improving the quality and affordability of their healthcare options. All while protecting critical programs like Medicare and Medicaid, which I have always fought for. Today’s vote simply allows Congress to get working on the legislative groundwork for repealing and swiftly enacting a replacement plan so that no one falls through the cracks. I’m hopeful this replacement plan will be bipartisan. I’ve heard from many folks here in Southwest Michigan on both sides of this important debate and look forward to being a constructive partner in this process moving forward.”
01.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today reintroduced private legislation, H.R. 461, in the U.S. House of Representatives on behalf of Harbert, Michigan, resident Ibrahim Parlak. This private legislation has been introduced by Upton in every Congress dating back to 2005. The bill aims to provide Parlak with Permanent Legal Residency status, which would allow him to legally stay in his home in Michigan, operate his business, and enjoy all the benefits of legal residents, without fearing deportation. “Ibrahim is a model immigrant and should be allowed to stay here in America where he has raised a family, runs a successful small business, and has become part of the fabric of our community,” said Upton. “This latest action is meant to be a back-stop against any potential action as Ibrahim’s case is rightfully re-examined by an immigration judge. We’ve been fully engaged in helping Ibrahim since 2004 – before introducing the private bill the following year – and we have no plans to let up now.” In August of 2016, The United States Board of Immigration granted Parlak a Motion to Reopen (MTR) his case to have his Convention Against Torture affidavit reviewed by an immigration judge. The MTR means that the 2004 order to remove him from the United States is no longer final and Parlak is safe from being deported until the issue is resolved. Upton’s private legislation has protected Parlak from deportation over the years by placing his case in deferral while the legislation awaits consideration in Congress. However, since the retirement of Senator Carl Levin, no Michigan senator has sponsored private legislation. To see more of Upton’s work over the years to help Parlak, please click here.
01.06.2017	Today, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden announced the selection of U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, to Chair the Subcommittee on Energy. “My home state of Michigan is a national leader in promoting 21st century energy policies having just enacted long-term, bipartisan energy legislation. We must work to do the same here at the federal level. Energy solutions have always been a priority and we will continue to promote “all-of-the-above” strategies. Whether it be assuring families have access to affordable energy, updating standards and safety for pipelines, providing appropriate security for our grid, developing safer technologies for emerging energy productions, and using energy as part of our diplomatic arsenal,” said Upton. “During the past six years as chairman of the full committee on Energy and Commerce, we accomplished big things for American families, workers, and businesses. Bold solutions to problems big and small. And now, with this new assignment, we expect the same bipartisan record of success to continue. America’s energy future is bright. We’re excited to get to work.” “Under Fred’s Chairmanship the committee held 562 hearings, had 354 measures passed through the House, and 202 bills and provisions signed into law. I know moving forward that Fred will bring that same dedication and hard work that has come to define him as he takes up the gavel of the Subcommittee on Energy,” said Walden. “His legislative accomplishments from 21st Century Cures to landmark chemical safety reform are further evidence that the Subcommittee on Energy is in good hands in the 115th Congress.”
01.05.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in passing H.R. 26, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act by a vote of 237 to 187. This legislation would require a Congressional vote on any major rule or regulation coming from the executive branch that is estimated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to impact the economy by $100 million or more. Congress would have 70 legislative days to approve a major rule with an economic impact more than $100 million and send it to the president for signature, otherwise the rule would not take effect. There is a process that provides an exemption for national emergencies such as weather-related disasters. The executive branch includes the president, vice president, and cabinet as well as the federal agencies. Including the armed forces, the executive branch employs more than four million workers. “Here in the House we’ve long been focused on reining in the most expensive government rules and regulations that hurt American workers, businesses, and families,” said Upton. “Under our Constitution, Congress controls the power of the purse – not unelected bureaucrats. The REINS Act is a common-sense piece of legislation that will help restore much-needed accountability and constitutionality to the regulatory process. I was proud to support it.” The pace and volume of federal regulations and rules is staggering. In 2016, the Obama administration broke all records in printing 97,110 pages of rules and regulations, including issuing 3,853 rules and regulations in the Federal Register. These rules and regulations pose enormous burdens on American job-creators and exert a drag on the economy. One study finds that federal regulations have reduced the annual growth rate of the United States gross domestic product (GDP) by 0.8 percent. Earlier this week, Upton also supported H.R. 21, the Midnight Rules Relief Act, which enables Congress to repeal en masse last-minute regulations issued from the administration.
12.22.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released a new report titled “2016: The Year in Review and A Look Ahead” which outlines legislative and policy priorities his office tackled in 2016 and sets priorities for the new year ahead in 2017. “We had a busy 2016 focusing on common-sense, bipartisan solutions to problems facing families and businesses here in Southwest Michigan and across the country,” said Upton. “We were able to make enormous progress and I’m looking forward to the new year as we still have much work to do. In 2017, we plan on pursuing an ambitious agenda that will tackle issues of great importance. Working together, I’m excited and optimistic about the opportunities before us as we continue to get the job done for folks in Southwest Michigan.” The report breaks down 10 specific policy areas in which Congressman Upton has been a bipartisan community leader; 21st Century Cures, jobs and the economy, healthcare, national security and veterans, education, the Great Lakes and our environment, energy, the prescription opioid and heroin epidemic, infrastructure, and good government and oversight. Click HERE to read the report. Click HERE to read Upton’s top 16 success stories of 2016 Click HERE to see Upton’s photos of the year. Click HERE to read the six must-read op-ed’s from Upton this year.
12.21.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released a list of his top 16 success stories of 2016. “We had a busy year, and despite the odds, we were able to accomplish big things in 2016,” said Upton. “From top-notch constituent service operations, to legislative accomplishments such as a national defense bill that aims to provide the largest pay-raise to our troops in six years, water infrastructure improvements and updates that specifically helped Flint residents, meaningful mental health reforms, and, of course, the groundbreaking 21st Century Cures Act that will bring faster cures to patients in need, Congress worked together in 2016 to accomplish tremendous things for the American people.” Below are 16 examples of that bipartisan success from 2016: 1. Game-changing medical innovation bill, 21st Century Cures, now law 2. Unmatched constituent services 3. Federal aid for Flint 4. Sweeping, bipartisan opioid abuse package signed into law 5. Landmark, bipartisan mental health reform legislation signed into law 6. President Obama signs bipartisan pipeline safety legislation into law 7. The most meaningful chemical safety reforms in a quarter century signed into law 8. Upton/Peters defense legislation signed into law 9. Bipartisan legislation to protect sexual assault survivors signed into law 10. A significant victory for Ibrahim Parlak to stay in the United States 11. Critical defense bill aims to give our troops their biggest pay-raise in six years 12. Michigan delegation continues bipartisan fight for Fort Custer 13. Funding to fight the Zika virus 14. Local FIRST Robotics teams take center stage in Washington, D.C. 15. Advancing bipartisan legislation to support the health of our Great Lakes 16. Bipartisan, bicameral legislation to honor South Haven Vietnam War veteran with Medal of Honor moves forward BONUS: The Chicago Cubs winning the World Series
12.20.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released a list of his top 16 photographs from 2016. Please click HERE to see all 16 of the photographs on Upton’s Facebook page.
12.20.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, tonight released the following statement after Stryker Corp. announced plans to build a state-of-the-art, $130-million corporate campus in Portage, Michigan. “This exciting news is a win-win for local patients and job creators. Thanks in part to our bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, we will now see more accelerated approvals of life-saving drugs and critical medical devices and they will be manufactured right here at home. With this state-of-the-art project now in place, our entire Southwest Michigan region remains well positioned to stay on the cutting edge of medical research and innovations so we can improve our local quality of life.”
12.19.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released a list of his top six op-eds published in 2016. “Keeping America’s Grid Safe” via Real Clear Politics – February 1, 2016 Key excerpt: “When it comes to keeping our country safe, nothing is more under-the-radar yet crucial to the nation’s well-being than our electric grid infrastructure. Everything from cyber-attacks to electromagnetic pulse waves, severe weather to seismic events has the potential to shut down or disrupt parts of the grid. The results of these disruptions or shut downs would have far-reaching economic and public health impacts.” “Working together to strengthen Medicaid for the most vulnerable” via The Hill – March 11, 2016 Key excerpt: “Today Medicaid is an important lifeline for so many in Michigan and across the country. It is estimated the program will expand to cover 83 million people this year – that’s one in four Americans. Given its rapidly growing size, it is imperative the program is working as intended – providing care for folks who need it most.” “Deciphering the Encryption Debate” via Medium – April 26, 2016 Key excerpt: “It is important that we move beyond the ‘us versus them’ mentality that has encompassed this discussion for too long. This debate is not about picking sides – it is about evaluating options.” “The Energy and Commerce Committee: getting the job done” via The Hill – June 28, 2016 Key excerpt: “Legislation to protect seniors’ access to their Medicare doctors, to strengthen and improve chemical and pipeline safety, to reform our nation’s mental health system, and to revolutionize our healthcare ecosystem to facilitate 21st Century Cures. What do all of these have in common? One thing: Big, bipartisan votes in the House Energy and Commerce Committee to help usher these critical pieces of legislation through regular order here in the House, and eventually into law.” “Addressing the opioid crisis” via South Bend Tribune – July 27, 2016 Key excerpt: “The simple truth is that we’re in the middle of an opioid abuse epidemic. Nearly every 12 minutes, someone in America dies of a drug overdose and the Centers for Disease Control reports that more than a quarter billion opioid prescriptions were written alone in 2012. Abuse of opioids has impacted every community. In my home state of Michigan, we are enduring 10 times as many deaths today as there were 15 years ago.” “It’s time to deliver #CuresNow” by Rep. Upton and Rep. DeGette via Morning Consult – November 30, 2016 Key excerpt: “Every single American has been touched by disease in some fashion, whether directly or indirectly, and the toll is painfully all too familiar. But from the rarest diseases to the more common, there is a reason for all to have hope this year. While bipartisan collaboration has been less than abundant in Washington recently, it has been the driving force for us, a Republican from Michigan and a Democrat from Colorado. We came up with the 21st Century Cures Act, an innovative game-changer providing a way to safely speed the discovery, development, and delivery of new treatments and cures.” Stay tuned for more end-of-the-year content from Upton’s office.
12.15.2016	ICYMI: Ground broken for Glen Oaks residence hall By Michael Patrick Sturgis Journal Glen Oaks Community College officially broke ground Wednesday for a 108-bed student housing project. The ceremony follows the recent vote by the college's board of trustees to approve a $5.3 million bid, submitted by Frederick Construction of Vicksburg, to construct a new dormitory on the Glen Oaks campus. Construction is expected begin in the coming weeks, weather permitting, with plans for the project to be complete prior to the fall 2017 semester, which begins in late August. Plans for the three-story student housing project include two- and four-suite units that share kitchen and living areas and two bathrooms. The facility will be located on the north side of the main parking lot, west of the main facility. GOCC is the first Michigan community college to use a low-cost (2.38 percent) USDA Rural Development federal 30-year loan to finance the housing project. The groundbreaking ceremony began with a welcome and long list of introductions by Glen Oaks president David Devier. Next, several people spoke, including U.S. Rep. Fred Upton. "Community colleges today are more relevant than ever before," Upton said. "And this has been a real landmark institution in St. Joseph County. Seeing it expand to include housing units ... to be able to do this and be able to have kids in their dorms literally by next fall is really terrific and a credit to the folks that are here." Read the full story online, via the Sturgis Journal, HERE.
12.13.2016	Marking the culmination of a three-year journey, President Obama signed the 21st Century Cures Act into law. The House passed the game-changing medical innovation bill 392 to 26 on November 30, and the Senate followed suit, voting 94 to 5 on December 7. Last week, House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Senate Pro Tempore Orrin Hatch (R-UT) signed the bill at an enrollment ceremony before formally sending it to the president. U.S. Reps Fred Upton (R-MI) and Diana DeGette (D-CO) authors of the 21st Century Cures Act released the following statement: “Working together, we got the job done. Patients needed a game-changer – and it is our hope that history will look back at the Cures effort as the moment in time when the tide finally turned against disease. Today’s milestone is not the end, it’s just the beginning for #CuresNow.”
12.08.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the announcement that Palisades Nuclear Power Plant, owned by Entergy Corporation and located in Covert, Michigan, would be decommissioned and closed in 2018: “Palisades has been part of the fabric of our Southwest Michigan community since 1971. They’ve employed thousands of workers – who in turn became respected leaders and so it’s important we do not turn our back on these hardworking folks now. They’ve also invested in our local schools and charities, had an enormous positive impact on our economy, and powered homes and businesses throughout the Midwest. But, as with all nuclear power plants across the country, there is always an end date. This safe transition is governed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and should not be interfered with. I strongly urge Entergy to remain committed to our community and I will continue working with them throughout this time of transition.” Since 2011, Upton has served as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over nuclear energy and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. In 2013, Upton toured Palisades and met with officials alongside representatives of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). In 2014, Upton toured Palisades again with then-NRC Chairman Alison M. Macfarlane.
12.08.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), and U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) announced that legislation to make Vietnam War veteran James C. McCloughan eligible for our nation’s highest military honor – the Medal of Honor – has passed in Congress as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The NDAA passed the House of Representatives on December 2nd and cleared the U.S. Senate today. It now goes to the desk of the President for signature. Private First Class McCloughan, a native and current resident of South Haven, served as a medic and saved the lives of 10 members of his platoon who were wounded during the Battle of Nui Yon Hill on May 13-15, 1969. McCloughan was discharged with the rank of Specialist (SP5). “This has been a long-time coming,” said Upton. “And now, thanks to our bipartisan efforts in the House and Senate, we’re closer than ever to getting Private First Class McCloughan, and his family, the recognition he duly earned on the battlefield.” “We are deeply grateful for Private First Class James McCloughan’s service to our country,” Said Stabenow. “Today, we are one step closer to awarding him the long overdue recognition he deserves.” “Private First Class James McCloughan put his life on the line to save his fellow service members, and the passage of this legislation will help ensure his bravery and sacrifice are properly recognized,” Said Peters Medal of Honor recipients must be honored within five years of the act of heroism justifying the award. The Department of Defense recently recommended that James McCloughan receive this honor. This legislation waives the five-year requirement and when signed into law, will make it possible for the President to award the Medal of Honor to him. Private First Class McCloughan was highly decorated receiving the Combat Medical Badge, two Purple Hearts, two Bronze Stars with “V” device for valor, the U.S. Army Valorous Unit Citation, the National Defense Medal, the Good Conduct Medal, the Vietnam Service Medal with three battle stars, the Vietnam Campaign Medal, the Republican of Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with palms and one oak leaf cluster and the M16 Expert Rifle Badge.
12.07.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI) and Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), sponsors of the 21st Century Cures Act, issued the following statement after the Senate passed the medical innovation bill by a vote of 94-5. “After three years, our legislative work is finally complete. 21st Century Cures is ready for the president. With this innovation game-changer, a new day for medical research is on the horizon. Today’s vote is for patients and their loved ones. We all have more reason for hope.” Learn about the 21st Century Cures Act HERE.
12.06.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, made the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3381, the Childhood Cancer Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research Act (STAR), by a unanimous vote. “Just about everyone’s life has been impacted by cancer in some way. The most heartbreaking situation of them all is when a young child is diagnosed with cancer – which, tragically, remains the leading cause of death in American children. These childhood cancer patients and their families deserve a stronger voice and more resources to help combat this deadly disease. That’s what this bipartisan legislation will do: Improve research, treatments, and care for childhood cancer patients, survivors, and their families. I was proud to support this legislation and hope the Senate will move quickly to pass it.” The Childhood Cancer STAR Act would improve efforts to identify and track childhood cancer incidences, improve the quality of life for childhood cancer survivors, ensure publicly accessible expanded access policies that provide hope for patients, and identify opportunities to expand the research of therapeutics necessary to treat the more than 15,000 children diagnosed with cancer in the United States each year. In September, Upton spoke at a childhood cancer vigil at Bronson Park in Kalamazoo where he pledged his support for the STAR Act.
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 by a bipartisan vote of 375-34. “Supporting our national defense, our active duty military personnel, and their families is of the utmost importance. Right here in Southwest Michigan we not only have active military instillations and soldiers who require the resources and equipment authorized, but also many families who depend on this legislation to provide consistency in their daily lives. This bipartisan legislation enhances our military readiness and includes the largest pay raise for our troops in six years, while also alleviating any bonus recoupment activities for our National Guard members who volunteered to serve during a time of need. Also of great importance, we maintain status quo on prohibiting the closure and the transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay to the United States and elevate U.S. Cyber defense to a unified Combatant Command to protect against emerging cyber threats. I was proud to support this bipartisan legislation and look forward to its swift passage in the Senate.” The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2017 is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligation to “provide for the common defense.” It advances the vital funding and authorities America’s military requires to protect our nation and the brave men and women serving around the globe. Today’s vote was the Conference Report to H.R. 4909, which passed the House in May with a vote of 277-147 and S. 2943, which passed the Senate in June with a vote of 85-13. The NDAA supports $619 billion for national defense, which exceeds President Obama’s original budget request.
11.30.2016	The U.S. House of Representatives today approved the 21st Century Cures Act by a vote of 392-26. “With today’s overwhelmingly bipartisan vote, we took a giant leap forward on the #Path2Cures,” said Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) and Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), co-authors of the bill. “21st Century Cures is the innovative game-changer that patients, their loved ones, and the nation’s researchers and scientists so desperately need. The White House has expressed its enthusiastic endorsement of this critical legislation. So it’s now on to the Senate, where we are just one final vote away from delivering #CuresNow.” For more information about the 21st Century Cures Act, click here.
11.30.2016	The U.S. House of Representatives today approved the 21st Century Cures Act by a vote of 392-26. Included in the bill were mental health reforms spearheaded by Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA), which were largely based off his bill, H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act. “With the House’s strong support of these critical reforms, we’re one step closer to delivering meaningful reforms to families in mental health crisis,” said Upton and Murphy. “We have worked to reduce stigma around this important issue, and let folks know it’s okay to ask for help. Throughout our multi-year, multi-Congress effort to advance solutions to a broken system, we’ve raised awareness and helped identify ways to help those around us. These reforms have been a long time coming and we look forward to the Senate quickly following in our footsteps.”
11.29.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today issued the following statement after President-Elect Donald Trump announced the nomination of Elaine Chao for the position of Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary: “Being from state that made autos great means we care about critical transportation issues – particularly as it relates to self-driving cars and other new technologies. Michigan companies will play key roles in these developments and Elaine Chao will do a great job of guiding the industry into the future. I’ve known Elaine for years as a friend and she has a long history of public service and will be a great fit for this critical position. I have absolute confidence she will do a wonderful job. There will be lots of work to do in the coming months and years as it relates to transportation, technology, and infrastructure issues and I look forward to working with Secretary Chao.”
11.15.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, invites residents of the Sixth Congressional District to share the spirit of the season – as well as holidays year-round such as Memorial Day and Veterans Day – with cards to our active duty military personnel, veterans, and their families. “I want to encourage everyone to take a few minutes to make a card or write a note to let our brave men and women in uniform, veterans, and their families know that we care, we appreciate their service, and wish them well during the holiday season and throughout the year,” said Upton. “It’s a simple gesture that can end up meaning so much to someone who may be away from their loved ones.” Area residents, schools, and community organizations are encouraged to take part in writing cards of appreciation. Cards may be dropped off at either of his constituent service offices in Kalamazoo or St. Joseph/Benton Harbor. Upton’s offices will accept cards dropped off until 5 p.m. Friday, Dec. 2, and will deliver them to a local Red Cross office. Red Cross officials ask senders to keep in mind these guidelines: · Include a heartfelt message, but sign only your first name; do NOT include phone numbers or email addresses. · Use generic titles such as “Dear Service Member, Veteran, or Military Family Member” when writing the cards. · Please refrain from using glitter or other pasted on objects on the cards as those may aggravate health issues. · Please do NOT enclose additional items such as gift cards, photos, or other gifts as they will be removed. · Envelopes are unnecessary for the cards. For more information on the Holidays for Heroes program, please click here. Upton’s constituent service offices are located at: Kalamazoo District Office 350 E. Michigan Ave., Ste. 130 Kalamazoo, MI 49007 269-385-0039 St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office 720 Main St. St. Joseph, MI 49085 269-982-1986
11.15.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement upon the House of Representatives advancing H.R. 4665, the Outdoor Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act of 2016 by a unanimous vote: “The outdoor recreation industry has become a significant driver of job and economic growth here in Southwest Michigan and across the country. This is why I was proud to support passage of this critical piece of legislation. It’s a common-sense, bipartisan bill that will inform lawmakers on outdoor recreation policy and also help optimize business investments in the outdoor recreation industry. It’s important we work together to strengthen our natural resources like the Great Lakes and also improve our outdoor recreation system.”
11.14.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives today in advancing bipartisan legislation, H.R. 2566, the Improving Rural Call Quality and Reliability Act of 2015, by a unanimous vote. This legislation, championed by Upton, will address persistent problems folks have in Southwest Michigan and across the country with rural call completion issues. These call completion issues have a negative impact on local small businesses and can pose a threat to public safety when important messages go undelivered. “For many living in the more rural parts of our Southwest Michigan community, communication issues persist,” said Upton. “It’s time we set higher standards for the integrity of our networks and for the benefit of folks who need it here at home. This bipartisan legislation takes meaningful action to address this problem, I’m proud to support it, and I’m hopeful that the Senate will take it up very soon.” H.R. 2566 requires intermediate telecommunications providers to register with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and comply with the service quality standards set by the agency. It would amend the Communications Act of 1934 to ensure the integrity of voice communications and to prevent unjust or unreasonable discrimination among more rural areas of the United States in the delivery of such communications. H.R. 2566 was previously advanced by the Energy and Commerce Committee, which is chaired by Upton. More information can be found here.
11.10.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton (MI-06), U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) today announced legislation to make James C. McCloughan eligible for our nation’s highest military honor – the Medal of Honor - for his acts of heroism and valor during the Vietnam War. Then-Private First Class McCloughan, a native and current resident of South Haven, served as a medic and saved the lives of 10 members of his platoon who were wounded during the Battle of Nui Yon Hill on May 13-15, 1969. Then-Private First Class McCloughan was discharged with the rank of Specialist (SP5). "Private First Class James McCloughan is an American hero - there is no doubt about that," said Congressman Upton. "And after 50 years, it's time he finally receives the highest recognition for the deeds that made him a hero. Private First Class McCloughan is one of my constituents here in Southwest Michigan, and I'm honored to be joining the fight with our Senators to get this done for him and his family." “Nearly 50 years ago, Private First Class James McCloughan acted heroically to save the lives of his fellow service members, and it’s time that he finally receives the recognition he deserves,” said Senator Stabenow. “We are deeply grateful for his heroism and service to our country.” "Private First Class James McCloughan acted without regard to his own safety to treat and rescue his fellow service members in the heat of battle,” said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. "His heroism and dedication are deserving of our nation’s highest military honor, and I thank him for his service and sacrifice.” Medal of Honor recipients must be honored within five years of the act of heroism justifying the award. The Department of Defense recently recommended that James McCloughan receive this honor. This legislation waives the five year requirement and when signed into law, will make it possible for the President to award the Medal of Honor to him. Private First Class McCloughan was highly decorated receiving the Combat Medical Badge, two Purple Hearts, two Bronze Stars with “V” device for valor, The U. S. Army Valorous Unit Citation, The National Defense Medal, The Good Conduct Medal, The Vietnam Service Medal with three battle stars, The Vietnam Campaign Medal, The Republic of Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with palms and one oak leaf cluster and the M16 Expert Rifle Badge.
10.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, made the following statement regarding the administration’s admission that there will be double-digit rate hikes for Obamacare plans next year: “These new numbers are an unwelcome October surprise for millions of Americans. On their own, the numbers are cause for alarm, but behind every premium spike is a name and a face – families, single parents, millennials all struggling to make ends meet. And sadly, these folks have real stories about losing their doctors or getting kicked off their plans. Republicans in Congress have offered solutions to help relieve patients from the health law’s expensive bills. We have a Better Way.”
10.19.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, wants to remind students who are interested in applying for nominations to U.S. Service Academies that the deadline for turning in applications is 5 p.m. Nov. 1. Students interested in an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy (West Point), or the U.S. Naval Academy must receive a nomination from an official nominating source, such as the applicant’s Congressional Representative, U.S. Senators, and Vice President of the United States. Admission to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy is made on the basis of an annual nationwide competition. Each Representative and Senator is allowed five nominations to each academy at any time. Student’s interested in seeking a nomination from Upton’s office must be at least 17 years of age and not yet 23, must be a U.S. citizen, must be single and not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. The Application for Nomination, instructions, and additional information on the nominating process can be found here. The completed form and all requested documents must be submitted to the Kalamazoo District Office, 350 E. Michigan Ave., Suite 130, Kalamazoo, Mich., 49007.
10.12.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and U.S. Senator Gary Peters, D-Michigan, applauded the recent signing into law of their bipartisan, bicameral legislation, H.R. 5944. This important legislation updates and modernizes the leasing programs necessary to keep National Guard units and Air Force Remote Pilot Aircraft (RPA) operations on airfields where they currently operate. “W.K. Kellogg Airport here in Southwest Michigan has long enjoyed a close relationship with the Michigan National Guard, and our bipartisan legislation – now law – enables that productive partnership to continue,” said Upton. “I again want to thank Senator Peters for his efforts in getting this to the president’s desk and I know we both appreciate President Obama acting swiftly to sign it into law. This is a big win for Southwest Michigan as we keep an eye on the future for critical national defense undertakings.” “The missions of the 110th Attack Wing are reshaping America’s fighting forces for the future, and they play a critical role in protecting our national security,” said Senator Peters. “I’m pleased the legislation Congressman Upton and I worked together to pass was quickly signed into law. This new law will help the Battle Creek Air National Guard and W.K. Kellogg Airport continue to grow West Michigan’s role as a key location for cutting-edge national defense missions.” “With President Barack Obama’s signature on legislation last week, Air National Guard units that fly remotely piloted aircraft at civilian airports do not face large lease payment increases,” said retired Maj. Gen. Gus Hargett, president of the National Guard Association of the United States. “Under the new law, the Federal Aviation Administration now considers RPA missions to be aeronautical and units that fly them are immune from possible lease hikes.” H.R. 5944 was introduced in the House by Upton and U.S. Rep. Brian Higgins, D-New York, and was advanced by unanimous votes in both the House and Senate. The legislation was jointly developed by Upton, Peters, the National Guard, the Air Force, and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Peters introduced similar legislation in the U.S. Senate, which was included in broader legislation to reauthorize the FAA. For a fact sheet on the legislation, please click here. In September, Upton and Peters attended the opening of a new RPA facility at the Battle Creek National Guard Base.
09.29.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and U.S. Senator Gary Peters, D-Michigan, today applauded Senate passage of H.R. 5944. This bipartisan legislation would update and modernize the leasing programs necessary to keep National Guard units and Air Force Remote Pilot Aircraft (RPA) operations on airfields where they currently operate. The legislation now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “W.K. Kellogg Airport in Battle Creek has enjoyed a close relationship with the Michigan National Guard, and our bipartisan legislation enables that productive partnership to continue,” said Upton. “Following the example set here in Southwest Michigan, which just received a state-of-the-art RPA flying mission, airfields around the nation now have the certainty to work in collaboration with the Air Force and the National Guard without jeopardizing their eligibility for vital federal support or risking weakening our nation’s defense. I want to thank Senator Peters for his partnership and applaud the Senate for their swift, bipartisan action in support of our important legislation.” “The men and women of the 110th Attack Wing are a proud part of Michigan’s strong military tradition, and they are at the forefront of groundbreaking missions to protect Americans and our allies at home and abroad,” said Senator Peters. “Remotely-piloted aircraft missions are part of the future of our military, and we must ensure these missions are not jeopardized by federal regulations that have not kept pace with cutting-edge technology. I thank Congressman Upton for his leadership on this important issues. I’m pleased we were able to work together to pass this critical legislation and ensure Kellogg Airport can remain eligible for federal grants and support our national defense capabilities in Battle Creek.” “Congressman Upton and Senator Peters continue to go above and beyond by recognizing Battle Creek’s defense community and its important role in creating and retaining jobs and investment,” said Joe Sobieralski, interim president and chief executive office of Battle Creek Unlimited, the area’s economic development organization. “NGAUS greatly appreciates the efforts of Senator Peters and Congressman Upton in getting this vitally important bill passed in the House and the Senate. The passage of this legislation comes as a huge relief to impacted RPA units in the Air National Guard,” said retired Maj. Gen. Gus Hargett, president of the National Guard Association of the United States. “We believe that this bill represents a fair compromise for both the Air National Guard and their airport sponsors, and will hopefully resolve many of the longstanding issues and uncertainty for the RPA units and the airports.” H.R. 5944 was introduced in the House by Upton and U.S. Rep. Brian Higgins, D-New York, and was advanced by a unanimous vote last week. The legislation was jointly developed by Upton, Peters, the National Guard, the Air Force, and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Peters introduced similar legislation in the U.S. Senate, which was included in broader legislation to reauthorize the FAA. For a fact sheet on the legislation, please click here. Earlier this month, Upton and Peters attended the opening of a new RPA facility at the Battle Creek National Guard Base.
09.28.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement upon the House of Representatives advancing a veto override for S. 2040, the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism (JASTA) Act by a 348 to 77 vote. “As someone who experienced the horrors of 9/11 up close, it’s important to me that the families of the victims are allowed to pursue the justice they deserve. This legislation has enjoyed strong, bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate. It doesn’t make dramatic changes to existing law. It simply allows Americans to seek legal avenues against foreign governments that sponsor terrorist attacks on United States soil. I’m proud to stand up and do right by the victims of the heinous 9/11 attacks to vote in favor of overriding this veto.” In May of this year, the Senate passed JASTA by a voice vote. The bill then passed the House by a voice vote on September 9, 2016. Last week, the president vetoed the bill. The U.S. Senate voted to override the President’s veto by a 97-1 vote earlier this afternoon.
09.28.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his House colleagues in voting to advance the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (WRDA) by a bipartisan 399 to 25 vote. The legislation authorizes $170 million to provide assistance for the city of Flint, Michigan, through an amendment offered by U.S. Reps Dan Kildee, D-Flint, and John Moolenaar, R-Midland, and championed by Upton. Click here to watch Upton’s statement on the House Floor in support of the amendment. “Today, the House acted decisively to provide critical funding and support for folks in Flint. We all know what happened in Flint was a tragic failure at every level. But the Flint community now deserves answers, action, and results. Today we delivered,” said Upton. “This bipartisan bill also strengthens and supports our Great Lakes. I applaud the House for coming together to advance key Flint funding in a responsible manner.” What WRDA does: · Authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the agency in charge of handling water infrastructure projects, and gives them the proper tools to tackle the backlog of water projects. · Ensures funds are made available from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for operation and maintenance of navigation projects in the Great Lakes. · Reauthorizes the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. · Installs strict oversight of projects to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse through review of annual reports. · Follows a new, transparent approval process for projects that was established by Congress in 2014. · Puts Congress on a two-year cycle of addressing infrastructure needs. WRDA was previously passed by the U.S. Senate by a 95 to 3 vote. It is supported by more than 80 groups, including the Great Lakes Commission, the Great Lakes Maritime Task Force, and the Kalamazoo Regional Chamber of Commerce. Upton has long been a champion of funding for Flint. In February, the House passed legislation sponsored by Kildee and Upton that would force the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to alert communities when lead levels are too high. Upton visited Flint with Kildee in August. To date, the State of Michigan has committed $234 million to the City of Flint.
09.27.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, was presented an award by the Coalition to Stop Opioid Overdose for his bipartisan work in fighting the opioid misuse and overdose epidemic. Upton was honored for his support of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA). Upton chaired the House and Senate Conference meeting that finalized the comprehensive package before it was signed into law by President Obama in July. “I’m honored to receive this award, but we know more work remains,” said Upton. “Each day folks struggle with opioid misuse and an overdose can tragically snuff out a life in an instant. Nearly every 12 minutes, someone dies of a drug overdose here in America. It is a sad reality playing out in communities here in Southwest Michigan and across the country. Congress acted and got the job done, but we should continue to focus on these issues and improving the quality of life for all Americans.” The Coalition to Stop Opioid Overdose is an organization of more than 40 local, regional, and national groups that are committed to advancing meaningful legislative and regulatory policies in response to the opioid epidemic. According to a recent Kaiser Health Tracking Poll, more than half of Americans (56 percent) say that they or someone they know has misused, been addicted to, or died from prescription pain medications.
09.22.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today took to the House Floor to recognize Suicide Prevention Month. Upton highlighted his personal experiences with suicide, the third annual Gryphon Place Suicide Prevention Walk that takes place in Kalamazoo, Michigan, as well as the bipartisan mental health reform legislation the House advanced in July. “Last week, I was in Kalamazoo’s Bronson Park for the Gryphon Place Suicide Prevention Walk,” said Upton. “A beautiful young woman named Kait stood before the crowd of more than 100 and she read a stirring poem she had written about being bullied and, as a result, how she harbored thoughts about suicide. Hearing her deeply personal story broke everyone’s hearts. And as a father of two young adults my thoughts quickly turned to them. When she finished, I followed up with her and told her she’s not alone. Anyone considering suicide or having suicidal thoughts should know the same: You are not alone and there is always help and options available. Suicide is not an issue that can linger in the shadows. We must confront it and the underlying issues behind it – together.” Click HERE to watch Upton's full remarks. Upton’s remarks, as prepared, can be found here. Kait’s stirring poem, as prepared, can be found here.
09.21.2016	The House of Representatives late Tuesday advanced bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph. The legislation, H.R. 5944, would update and modernize the leasing programs necessary to keep National Guard units and Air Force Remote Pilot Aircraft (RPA) operations on airfields where they are already operating. The legislation was co-sponsored by U.S. Rep. Brian Higgins, D-New York. “This important, bipartisan solution helps our National Guard and Air Force continue to evolve into the 21st Century and beyond as Remote Piloted Aircraft become one of the most reliable tools in our toolbox to fight terrorism abroad,” said Upton. “We cannot risk disturbing these critical missions by moving or eliminating the capability of National Guard and Air Force personnel simply because of outdated laws. With our bipartisan fix, airfields will have certainty and missions will not be disrupted. This legislation will save taxpayer dollars as well as lives.” Under current law, there is no recognition of RPA missions by the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) leasing program that would allow National Guard and Air Force units to continue operating as they have in the past because of a requirement for aircraft to be on site at the airfield. Under the new bill, National Guard and Air Force units that include either remote control or direct take-off of RPAs would be able to continue operations at their home airfields at the same leasing rate as before. The legislative solution was jointly developed by Upton, the National Guard, Air Force, and FAA, and has been approved by the FAA Office of the Administrator for Airports. “Congressman Fred Upton continues to go above and beyond by recognizing Battle Creek’s defense community and its important role in creating and retaining jobs and investment,” said Joe Sobieralski, interim president and chief executive officer of Battle Creek Unlimited, the area’s economic development organization. “Congressman Upton’s latest legislation, which allows communities to negotiate a fair rate that benefits both the military and the local community, underscores his understanding of the importance of jobs and military missions in Battle Creek and the region.” Remote Piloted Aircraft (RPA) provide key intelligence, reconnaissance, and close air combat support. To read a fact sheet on H.R. 5499 and to see how it will positively impact Southwest Michigan, please click here.
09.19.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton on Monday announced the opening of his recently relocated constituent service office in Kalamazoo. The office has moved from its former location to 350 E. Michigan Avenue, Suite 130, Kalamazoo, Michigan, 49007. The office telephone and fax machine numbers remains unchanged. “We’re excited about our move as it will allow us to better serve everyone here in our Kalamazoo community,” said Upton. “One of my most vital responsibilities as a Member of Congress is providing assistance to folks who are facing difficulties in dealing with the federal government. Whether you are a veteran trying to access duly earned benefits or obtain overdue service medals, a senior with questions or concerns about your Medicare or Social Security, or a family awaiting their passports before a big trip, I have dedicated staff members ready to assist and get the job done. Our door is always open and we look forward to continuing serving you.” Upton represents Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District which encompasses all of Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, Van Buren counties as well as most of Allegan County. Upton operates two full-time constituent service office that provide assistance and resources to all Southwest Michigan residents and businesses in dealing with the federal government. Upton’s second service office is located in St. Joseph/Benton Harbor. Updated Office Contact Information Kalamazoo (New Location) 350 E. Michigan Avenue, Suite 130 Kalamazoo, MI 49907 (269) 385-0039 (269) 385-2888 (f) St. Joseph/Benton Harbor 720 Main Street St. Joseph, MI 49085 (269) 982-1986 (269) 982-0237 (f) Washington, D.C. 2183 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 (202) 225-3761 (202) 225-4986 (f)
09.19.2016	Members of the Michigan Congressional delegation today sent a letter to Vice Admiral James D. Syring, Director of the Missile Defense Agency, to voice their strong support of Fort Custer Training Center, one of three locations under consideration for a possible Continental United States Interceptor Site. The letter was signed by U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, U.S. Representative Fred Upton, U.S. Senator Gary Peters, U.S. Representative Brenda Lawrence, U.S. Representative Candice Miller, U.S. Representative Mike Bishop, U.S. Representative Bill Huizenga, U.S. Representative Dan Benishek, U.S. Representative John Moolenaar, U.S. Representative Tim Walberg, U.S. Representative Dan Kildee, U.S. Representative Dave Trott, U.S. Representative Sander Levin, U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell, and U.S. Representative John Conyers. “Since 1917, Fort Custer has played an integral part in training our Armed Forces for vital national security missions. It supports over 190,000 training mandays annually, hosts nine tenants, including the Army, Marine, and Naval reserves, and stands ready to take on this new mission,” the delegation writes in the letter. “Locating the interceptor at Fort Custer would bring a welcomed $3.2 billion in economic impact, including $700 million in new construction. It would also employ 300 jobs directly and up to 1,800 support jobs. Given all of these considerations, we strongly support Fort Custer Training Center as the preferred Continental United States Interceptor Site and look forward to staying engaged as the selection process continues.” A full copy of the letter is available below. September 19, 2016 Vice Admiral James D. Syring Director, Missile Defense Agency 5700 18th Street, Bldg 245 Fort Belvoir, VA 22060 Dear Vice Admiral Syring, It’s our understanding that you have completed your assessment of the environmental impacts for a missile defense Interceptor Site at Fort Custer Training Center, one of three remaining locations under consideration. The assessment showed that the environmental impacts for placing an interceptor at Fort Custer would be minimal and that unlike the other sites, Fort Custer would not require additional surveys or cause significant harm to protected species or habitats. As you know, the community had the opportunity to meet with the Missile Defense Agency, ask questions about the draft assessment, and submit remarks before the public comment period closed on August 17. We have heard from numerous organizations and leaders in the community, and want to emphasize the strong local support for Fort Custer as the host location. Since 1917, Fort Custer has played an integral part in training our Armed Forces for vital national security missions. It supports over 190,000 training mandays annually, hosts nine tenants, including the Army, Marine, and Naval reserves, and stands ready to take on this new mission. Fort Custer has taken tremendous strides to increase its energy efficiency by installing solar fields and a wind funnel to generate electrical power. These innovative developments help make Fort Custer a cost-effective option for the interceptor site. Locating the interceptor at Fort Custer would bring a welcomed $3.2 billion in economic impact, including $700 million in new construction. It would also employ 300 jobs directly and up to 1,800 support jobs. Given all of these considerations, we strongly support Fort Custer Training Center as the preferred Continental United States Interceptor Site and look forward to staying engaged as the selection process continues. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow U.S. Representative Fred Upton U.S. Senator Gary C. Peters U.S. Representative Brenda L. Lawrence U.S. Representative Candice S. Miller U.S. Representative Mike Bishop U.S. Representative Bill Huizenga U.S. Representative Dan Benishek U.S. Representative John Moolenaar U.S. Representative Tim Walberg U.S. Representative Dan Kildee U.S. Representative Dave Trott U.S. Representative Sander Levin U.S. Representative Debbie Dingell U.S. Representative John Conyers CC: Secretary Carter
09.15.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after the House of Representatives advanced H.R. 5351, To prohibit the transfer of any individual detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by a bipartisan vote of 244 to 174. “Those held at Guantanamo are not ordinary criminals – they are hardened extremists in the midst of an endless war against our country, our citizens, and our values. President Obama should instead try working with us to bolster our national security and combat terrorism. Freeing any of these additional detainees would put American lives at risk. I’m proud to support these efforts to block to the Obama administration from prematurely freeing any more detainees from Guantanamo.” H.R. 5351 would block all transfers of Guantanamo Bay detainees through the end of the president’s term in office, or until the FY17 National Defense Authorization Act is signed into law, whichever happens first. In June, the Washington Post reported that at least 12 detainees released have been implicated in attacks against the United States or allied forces, killing about a half-dozen Americans.
09.14.2016	The Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade on Wednesday held a bipartisan hearing focused on advanced robots, and specifically the success of the STEM education program, FIRST Robotics. FIRST stands for “For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology.” The program has grown from 20 to more than 45,000 teams nationwide since it was founded in 1989. Michigan has by far the highest number of FIRST teams per capita in the country. The hearing brought together educators, industry, and stakeholders in exploring the future of advanced robotics applications, educational initiatives, and how the United States is positioned to leverage these innovations in the future. “I have a personal relationship with FIRST Robotics and am a very proud supporter. From the St. Joseph ‘Average Joes’ team to the ‘2767 Stryke Force’ team in Kalamazoo, innovative STEM programs – like FIRST Robotics – allows for kids in our communities to dream big and aspire to become inventors, engineers, small business owners, and community leaders,” said Upton. “I’ve been to numerous competitions across the state, and I’m always impressed with what the kids come up with. It’s inspiring and refreshing to see kids inspired by science.” “FIRST Robotics has helped so many kids here in St. Joseph High School develop science, technology, engineering, and math skills and confidence over the years it’s been incredible,” noted Vic Vroegop, instructor of the “Average Joe” team at St. Joseph HS. “It has literally changed the culture at our school and our community. It has provided a vehicle where students can apply what they have learned in all of their classes, consult with mentors who are professionals in their respective fields and come up with real world engineering solutions for the FIRST yearly challenge. I want to thank Dean Kamen and Fred Upton for their support of this awesome program that has created such opportunity for our kids.” “We like to call FIRST Robotics the ultimate sport for the mind and it has such an amazing impact for participants who go from FIRST to leading the way in the classroom and beyond,” commented Gervea Ornopia, STEM advocate and teacher at Berrien Springs Middle School “It gives high school students the opportunity to work and create something together to solve a common problem. Having a champion for our team and program in Congress like Fred Upton sets a great example for our young adults.” “Dean Kamen and Fred Upton’s testimony before Congress reiterates what we already know: Robots are cool and kids are flocking to FIRST to be part of this innovative STEM program,” said Dale Quattrin, instructor of the Coloma HS CW Tech Robotarians. “Fred has been a long-time supporter of FIRST and we appreciate his support and encouragement. It’s important to meet kids where they are – whether it be in the classroom or through inventive programs like FIRST.” Upton is also the co-sponsor of bipartisan legislation that would use the sale of a commemorative coin for astronaut Christa McAullife, who was tragically lost in the Challenger disaster, to raise money for FIRST programs in Southwest Michigan and across the country. You can learn more about this legislation here.
09.13.2016	The Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology on Tuesday advanced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 2566, the Improving Rural Call Quality and Reliability Act of 2015, by a unanimous vote. This important legislation, championed by U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, will address persistent problems folks have in Southwest Michigan and across the country with rural call completion issues. These calls completion issues have a negative impact on local small businesses and can pose a threat to public safety when important messages go undelivered. “It’s never been easier to pick up the phone and dial a number to be in touch with friends and loved ones, no matter where they are in the country. But for those living in rural areas right here in Southwest Michigan and across the country, this connection isn’t always guaranteed,” said Upton. “It’s time we set higher standards for the integrity of our networks, but more importantly for the benefit of folks who need it here at home. I have heard directly from providers in my district as well as local small businesses that this is an issue of great importance and demands action. This bipartisan legislation takes meaningful action to address this problem and I’m proud to support it.” Sid Shank, Government Policy Coordinator at Acentek, a communications and information technology firm serving primarily rural areas in the Midwest, commented, “I applaud Congressman Upton and his colleagues for tackling this tough issue. Despite amazing advances in technology in recent years, there are still many folks living in rural areas that experience problems with call quality. We know we can do better and today Congress took the first steps to achieving that goal.” H.R. 2566 requires intermediate telecommunications providers to register with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and comply with the service quality standards set by the agency. It would amend the Communications Act of 1934 to ensure the integrity of voice communications and to prevent unjust or unreasonable discrimination among areas of the United States in the delivery of such communications. The legislation now moves towards consideration of the full committee.
09.13.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, on Tuesday joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in voting to advance H.R. 5587, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act by a 405 to 5 vote. This bipartisan legislation reforms, modernizes, and reauthorizes the Carl D. Perkins Act. Since 1984, the Carl D. Perkins Act has provided federal support to state and local career and technical education (CTE) programs. These innovative programs – spearheaded at the state and local level – offer students the opportunity to gain the knowledge, skills, and experience necessary to compete for good-paying jobs in a broad range of fields. Unfortunately, federal law has not been updated in more than a decade, and no longer reflects the realities and challenges facing students and workers in the 21st century economy. This reauthorization provides need improvements that empowers state and local community leaders by simplifying the application process for receiving federal funds, improves alignment with in-demand jobs, increases transparency and accountability to ensure CTE programs deliver results, and ensures a limited federal role. “More and more we see young adults craving hands-on training experiences that give them the opportunities to not only learn things, but to actually do things,” said Upton. “Career and technical education programs are tantamount in providing those needed skills required to be successful in the workforce, and in higher education. In order to grow our middle class, we need to support CTE programs that help countless students prepare for well-paying careers.” H.R. 5587 is supported by numerous groups and organizations including the American Association of Community Colleges, the Business Roundtable, IBM, the National Association of Manufacturers, the National Education Association, the National School Boards Association, the School Superintendents Association, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. To see a full list of supporters, and to read their letters of support, please click here. To read a detailed summary of H.R. 5587, please click here.
09.07.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives on Tuesday in voting to advance H.R. 5578, the Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act of 2016, by a unanimous 399-0 vote. The bipartisan bill, introduced by U.S. Reps. Mimi Walters, R-California, and Zoe Lofgren, D-California, provides stronger protections and greater access to legal remedies for survivors of sexual assaults. According to RAINN (Rape, Abuse, and Incest National Network), on average there are 288,820 victims (age 12 or older) of rape and sexual assault each year here in the United States. Yet, oftentimes rape kits, which contain key pieces of evidence, are never tested. Under current law, some basic rights that protect survivors of sexual assaults vary greatly between each state and federal statue. “Sexual assault survivors have been through enough. Their kits and their rights must be protected by law,” said Upton. “The survivors have faced a patchwork of rules that didn’t always provide the help and information they need to ensure a fair legal process. The House of Representatives on Tuesday smoothed the way for them to maintain their basic rights as they seek justice.” H.R. 5578 ensures that that sexual assault survivors in federal criminal cases have a right to; a sexual assault evidence kit (rape kit), be notified in writing before the kit is destroyed, request preservation of the kit, and be informed of important results from a forensic examination. The legislation also requires the U.S. Attorney General and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to convene a joint working group to determine best practices regarding the care and treatment of sexual assault survivors and the preservation of forensic evidence.
08.23.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, on Monday was awarded the Outstanding Legislative Leader Award from the National Association of County Behavioral Health and Development Disability Directors and the National Association for Rural Mental Health. The prestigious award is given to honor federal legislators who demonstrate outstanding courage and leadership in advancing legislation that promotes the well-being of those with mental health, substance use, and intellectual development/developmental disability conditions. “For too long, issues related to mental health have been relegated to the shadows – but no more,” said Upton. “These are concerns that impact every community, and so many families, in one way or another. I was proud to work on a bipartisan bill that would seriously address many of these issues and we worked hard to get it through the House. Our efforts will continue. I know that by working together, we can make a real difference for families here in Southwest Michigan.” “Fred Upton’s hard work payed off when the bill he championed that helps remove the stigma associated with mental illness passed the House and I’m so proud that he’s my representative.” said Elizabeth O’Dell, chief executive officer of Community Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services of St. Joseph County. “Chairman Upton has shown outstanding bipartisan leadership throughout the 114th Congress in successfully shepherding the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act though the Energy and Commerce Committee and through the House,” noted Ron Manderscheid, executive director of the NACBHDD. “Through careful and determined leadership, in collaboration with Rep. Frank Pallone, D-NJ, the Ranking Member of the Committee, Chairman Upton was able to modify a very controversial bill into one that ultimately was able to pass the House on a 422 to 2 vote. This is a very exceptional accomplishment. We are delighted to recognize the Chairman for this very important work.”
08.17.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after the United States Board of Immigration granted Ibrahim Parlak his Motion to Reopen (MTR) his case to have his Convention Against Torture claim re-examined by an Immigration Judge. This MTR means that the 2004 order of removal is no longer final and Ibrahim is safe from being removed from the U.S. until this issue is resolved. “This is a significant victory for our friend Ibrahim and yet another step in the right direction for his future. The dangers Ibrahim would face should he be deported to Turkey are unthinkable as the tensions between the Turkish government and the Kurdish community have grown increasingly worse. It has been a full team effort and we will continue working hard, on a bipartisan basis, to prevent Ibrahim’s unjust deportation from occurring.” To learn more about Upton’s work to help Ibrahim Parlak, please click here.
08.02.2016	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the news that Western Michigan University President John Dunn had announced his retirement date: “Over the past nine years, John Dunn has been a trusted friend and advisor. From the launch of the WMU Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine, to his work on behalf of military veterans and foster care youth – our entire community is stronger thanks to his passion and work ethic. President Dunn’s obvious commitment and respect to Western Michigan University, the Kalamazoo Community, and our entire Southwest Michigan region was as apparent from the first moment I met him as it is today. I wish him, and his wife Linda, a happy retirement and thank them both for their service to our community.”
07.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after President Obama signed sweeping bipartisan legislation to fight the nation’s opioid epidemic into law Friday: “In the face of a surging crisis, we came together and got the job done. We have a thoughtful solution that attacks the opioid epidemic from all sides – one that zeros in on treatment for addiction and overdoses, reforms prescribing practices, and works with law enforcement. For folks suffering in Southwest Michigan and across America who are desperate for relief, help is on the way.” The legislation includes over a dozen bills passed by the Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by Upton. Upton also chaired the House and Senate conference meeting that finalized the comprehensive package. Earlier this month the House voted 407 to 5 and the Senate voted 92-2 in support of the consensus bill. For more information, please click here.
07.20.2016	“As Michiganders, pipeline safety is an issue that hits especially close to home. Pipelines are critical to the essential transportation of our energy resources, but when a catastrophe can strike in the blink of an eye, we must be prepared and we must hold those responsible accountable. In the wake of this tragic spill, we got to work on new standards – the toughest on the books – to ensure something like this can never happen again, anywhere. I applaud our local leaders and all of the stakeholders for their commitment to restoring our natural resources.” In 2011, Upton and Michigan Democrat John Dingell came together to work on bipartisan legislation that made vital updates and improvements to our nation’s pipeline infrastructure. The law also increased inspection and accountability requirements for those responsible for spills. The bipartisan legislation was signed into law by the president. In June of 2016 the reauthorization of the 2011 law, the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety (PIPES) Act of 2016 was signed into law by the president. The reauthorization built upon the 2011 law and included specific transparency provisions related to the Line 5 pipeline, which runs under the Straits of Mackinac.
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined House and Senate leadership this morning to take part in an enrollment ceremony for S. 524, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. Upton chaired the Conference Committee that reported the final bipartisan, bicameral package – marking the first time in his career he has chaired such a Conference. “I was proud to chair the Conference Committee that reported this important legislation aimed at helping folks facing real crisis,” said Upton. “Our community in Southwest Michigan, and communities across the country, are facing an urgent problem, and we came together to get the job done. I am hopeful and confident that President Obama will follow our lead and sign this package into law soon. Lives are at stake, and this critical legislation will help make a difference.”
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, took to the floor of the House of Representatives this afternoon to speak on yesterday’s Berrien County Courthouse tragedy. Click HERE or above to watch the video Additionally, Upton released a statement on the tragedy yesterday which can be found here. Full remarks, as prepared, can also be found below: Mr. Speaker, it is with deep sadness that I ask for Unanimous Consent to address the House for the purpose of a one-minute speech. Southwest Michigan has had some tough times lately. Now, we’re faced with the news that broke yesterday that two bailiffs at the Berrien County Courthouse in my hometown of St. Joseph, Michigan, were slain by an inmate who had overpowered his guards. And so I rise today to offer support and love for the victims’ friends, family, and for our entire community. We should continue to keep those affected in our hearts, and in our minds. I also want to thank the countless folks on the front lines who clearly prevented this tragedy from being even worse than it was. The swift actions of those on the ground deserve to be commended – particularly the Berrien County Sheriff’s Department led by Sheriff Paul Bailey. I was with him just this past Saturday. What he has had to endure over the past 24 hours is unthinkable. I also want to thank the immediate action and outpouring of support from our local officials; St. Joseph Mayor Mike Garey, Benton Harbor Mayor Marcus Muhammad and State elected officials; Governor Rick Snyder, John Proos, and Al Pscholka. It’s times like these when we all unite as one. This heartbreaking tragedy happened in the blink of an eye, but we will never forget… We will remember and honor Joseph Zangaro, who I knew personally, who was the head of courthouse security and a retired Michigan State Police officer. We will remember and honor Ronald Kienzle, a U.S. Army veteran and a retired Benton Township Police officer. I ask my colleagues and those who hear this message across the country to pray for the families of the two victims, and for the speedy recovery of another deputy, James Atterberry, and a civilian caught in the middle, Kenya Ellis. We will get through this – together. Thank you and I yield back.
07.11.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, made the following statement on the shooting that occurred this afternoon at the Berrien County Courthouse: “What occurred today in my hometown breaks my heart. My thoughts are with our entire community – our friends and neighbors. This tragic event reminds us all too well that our law enforcement officers have their lives on the line every day not knowing what that day will bring. We have lost two very able public servants and we all grieve for them and their families. As we learn more about this horrific situation, one thing is clear: we must do better to prevent these types of tragedies from occurring.”
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement upon House passage of the Conference report to accompany S. 524 – the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. “We’re in the midst of an opioid crisis that has no boundaries and does not discriminate. In Michigan, we are enduring 10 times as many deaths today as there were 15 years ago. And sadly, the numbers continue to surge,” said Upton. “We owe this effort to the past, present, and sadly, future victims of the opioid epidemic – our neighbors, friends, and family, across every part of the country and every demographic group. Today’s overwhelming bipartisan vote of 407-5 underscores the urgency, and I hope the Senate will swiftly follow suit. We must all come together, and get the job done. What we are doing will help save lives.” The report – which was advanced by a meeting of House and Senate opioid conferees, chaired by Upton, earlier this week – is supported by over 200 addiction advocacy groups. Click here for more information on the conference report.
07.06.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his U.S. House colleagues to pass landmark, bipartisan legislation to reform our nation’s mental health system by a 422-2 vote. H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, was spearheaded by U.S. Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Pennsylvania, following an extensive investigation into the nation’s failing mental health care system. “This is an issue that impacts every community, and so many families, in one way or another,” said Upton. “For far too long, mental health was a subject left in the shadows. Thankfully, that’s no longer the case. Our bipartisan bill will save lives, aid families, and provide comfort and relief to those struggling with mental health issues. It is a strong bill that both Republicans and Democrats can be proud of. Our work will make a real difference and deliver meaningful reforms to families in mental health crisis here in Michigan and all across the country.” H.R. 2646 represents the most significant reforms to our nation’s mental health programs in decades. The legislation makes sure the federal government funds evidence-based programs and removes barriers to care. It also includes reforms to provide the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) new tools and resources under the leadership of a new position, Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use. H.R. 2646 was advanced in June by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by Upton, by a 53-0 vote. For a fact sheet on H.R. 2646, please click here.
06.23.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement following President Barack Obama signing into law the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety (PIPES) Act of 2016: “We came together, Republicans and Democrats, to improve and strengthen the safety of our pipelines – and we got the job done. Our bipartisan legislation, signed into law by President Obama is a win for Southwest Michigan, our Great Lakes, and the entire country.”
06.23.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today met with Portage Northern High School Junior Madeline Peterson, winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District. Madeline’s acrylic and graphite piece allows viewers to glimpse a portion of the beauty and mystery of the Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore on Lake Superior through a paper portal. Madeline made the piece for her advanced art class last year and plans to continue her artwork into the future. “It was great to finally meet Madeline and her mother who traveled all the way from Portage to see her winning artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol,” said Upton. “It was a special moment to be sure. The arts are such a pivotal part of our community and we’re proud of Madeline’s hard work and creativity – now on display in front of millions who travel through our Capitol building each year.” “It was so cool to come out to Washington, D.C., to see all of the artwork on display. Seeing my piece up there was awesome. It’s an honor I’ll never forget,” said Peterson. “I want to thank my family, especially my mother who is with me, my teacher Sarah Nott, my friends, and Congressman Upton for the support.” As the 2016 Congressional Art Competition winner, Madeline and her mother flew out to Washington, D.C., on two complimentary tickets provided by Southwest Airlines. They also took part in a reception honoring winners from across the country. To learn more about the Congressional Art Competition and Madeline’s piece, please click here.
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, on Wednesday advanced landmark, bipartisan legislation that will reform our nation’s mental health system by a unanimous 53-0 vote. H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, was introduced by U.S. Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Penn, in the wake of the Newtown, Conn., tragedy. It was advanced by the Subcommittee on Health in November. “This bill will make a real difference for countless Americans,” said Upton. “The 53-0 vote marks another important milestone to delivering meaningful reforms to families in mental health crisis. Those suffering from mental illness need the attention of this Congress, and I hope the House will swiftly follow our lead.” H.R. 2646 works to deliver evidence-based treatments to help finally conquer the stigma surrounding mental illness. Among the provisions are specific reforms to remove barriers to care, creating a new position, an Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders, and transforming how Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) grant dollars are spent. H.R. 2646 is supported by groups including the National Alliance on Mental Health, the American Psychological Association, the American Psychiatric Association, and the National Alliance on Mental Illness.
06.15.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, on Monday joined House Speaker Paul D. Ryan and U.S. Rep. John Shimkus, R-Illinois, for a signing ceremony for the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act. The landmark piece of legislation, advanced in the House by a 403-12 vote and unanimously in the Senate, marks the first update to the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) since 1976. It improves chemical safety by clearing up the hodgepodge of state rules, reduces risks for consumers, and makes chemicals and products used every single day safer for all Americans. “This effort marks a milestone for the American people as Congress came together to update our nation’s chemical safety laws. We took the time, did the hard work, put in countless hours of discussions and negotiations, and it paid off. Our legislation will have a monumentally positive impact for commerce, the environment, and public health. I was proud to be able to join Speaker Ryan and John Shimkus, who has worked so hard on this legislation in his own right, for this signing ceremony. We are all looking forward to the president signing our bill into law,” said Upton. Learn more about this legislation and its benefits to Michigan here.
06.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement regarding the tragedy in Orlando: “Sunday’s horrific attack in Orlando is a tragic reminder that we have much work to do not only against the very real threat of radical Islamic terror, but also against reprehensible hatred that simply has no place in America. This appears to have been a toxic combination of ISIS, hatred, discrimination, and pure terror. As we gather more information about what exactly happened and how, we must join together to reject the hate that fueled this unthinkable tragedy and also remain vigilant against terrorism that has once again reared its ugly head. Our hearts go out to all affected – victims, families, friends, and first responders. Southwest Michigan stands with Orlando.”
06.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in unanimously approving bipartisan legislation that will enhance pipeline safety, clarify safety oversight efforts, and provide greater regulatory certainty. The PIPES Act of 2016 reauthorizes the federal pipeline safety program within Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration (PHMSA) for four years and requires the agency to update safety regulations, increase transparency, and embrace emerging technologies. The legislation also includes a provision championed by Upton that requires increased inspections for some underwater pipelines, including the Line 5 pipeline under the Straits of Mackinac. “More than two-thirds of U.S. energy consumption moves through our nation’s pipeline network and our bipartisan efforts will improve safety of this critical infrastructure here in Michigan and across the country,” said Upton. “Certain pipelines should be subject to greater scrutiny and more frequent inspections, and Line 5, which runs cross the Straights of Mackinac, is a perfect example. If a spill were to occur there, the consequences would be unthinkable. We promised action and I am proud that we have a bipartisan agreement that will make a real difference. This legislation is a bipartisan win for Southwest Michigan, our Great Lakes, and the American people.” In 2011, Upton joined with Michigan Democrat John Dingell in authoring a bipartisan pipeline safety bill that was signed into law by President Obama. The PIPES Act reauthorizes that legislation. To view video of Upton’s floor speech, please click here.
06.04.2016	ST. JOSEPH, MI – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the news that boxing legend and former Berrien County resident, Muhammad Ali passed away overnight: “Muhammad Ali was indeed The Greatest and his impact and legacy will be felt for generations and beyond. His strength and bravery in the boxing ring and with his battle with Parkinson’s Disease is a testament to the human spirit. Years ago when we were organizing the bipartisan effort to double the funding for the National Institutes of Health, Ali came to my office and we worked hand in glove together on a winning course forward. I was struck then by his sense of humor and his larger than life personality. He had a way with people that was remarkable. I remember calling him the night of the vote telling him the good news that we had won, making a difference for millions struggling with pain – giving them hope for a cure. He used his greatness not just in the ring, but for another big match: 21st Century Cures. Now we have to make sure we win that title belt as well. Amey and I are sending our prayers to his wife Lonnie, the entire Ali family, and his millions of fans and admirers worldwide. We have truly lost a legend.”
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined Michigan colleagues Dan Benishek, Mike Bishop, John Conyers, Bill Huizenga, Brenda Lawrence, John Moolenaar, Dave Trott, and Tim Walberg, in writing a letter to eight Great Lakes region governors. The letter strongly urges the governors to vote against a proposal by the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Regional Body to allow Waukesha, Wisconsin, to divert 8.2 million gallons of water per day from the Great Lakes. “This request from Waukesha is precedent setting,” Members of the Michigan Delegation said in the letter. “We firmly believe the approval of this request would threaten the precious, finite resources provided by our Lakes. It takes all eight governors to approval the request for diversion. We ask that you use your vote to deny this request and protect all the Great Lakes states and their people.” To read a copy of the letter, please click here. To learn more about Upton’s work on Great Lakes issues, please click here.
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted last night to advance H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017. The legislation was passed by a bipartisan vote of 277-147. “Working in a bipartisan fashion, and an open process on the House Floor, we were able to advance meaningful legislation that will give our troops a pay raise, fund their training, and block the government from transferring Guantanamo detainees to United States soil,” said Upton. “At a time when unprecedented military and terror threats are playing out on a global scale we need a military that is properly prepared and there can be no excuses. Let’s work together to continue supporting our military for the 21st century by giving them the suitable tools they need to succeed in this new landscape.” To learn more about Upton’s work to support our military, their families, and our veterans, please click here.
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, recently received the 2016 “Medicare Advantage Champion” Award from the Coalition for Medicare Choices, a national grassroots organization of 2 million Americans working to protect Medicare Advantage. The award recognizes Upton’s commitment to protecting Medicare Advantage for the millions of older Americans and people with disabilities who depend on its coverage. “I’m proud to continue supporting our seniors and those with disabilities who count on Medicare and Medicare Advantage,” said Upton. “I’m going to continue to be a bipartisan leader in this effort to strengthen these programs for those who need them now – and for those who will down the road.”
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives this week in advancing 18 bipartisan pieces of legislation related to the ongoing opioid and heroin epidemic sweeping through Southwest Michigan and the entire country. “Abuse of prescription pain-killers and heroin has impacted every community – here in Southwest Michigan and across the country. As I’ve met with families throughout our corner of the state, it’s clear that this is an epidemic that has no boundaries and does not discriminate,” said Upton. “But we have to face this epidemic head on, and this week we’ve taken several important steps forward. We owe this effort to the past, present, and sadly, future victims of the opioid epidemic – our neighbors, friends, and family, across every part of the country and every demographic group. Our work will continue. We owe it to all of those in our communities who are suffering from addiction.” To watch video of Upton’s remarks on the House Floor addressing the opioid and heroin epidemic, please click here. Upton also recently penned a blog post highlighting the efforts he’s taken over the past year to learn more about this epidemic, including inviting Cass County Prosecutor Victor Fitz to testify before the Energy and Commerce Committee, and how we should work together to try and solve it. Of the 18 pieces of legislation passed, 11 were bills that moved through the Energy and Commerce Committee, which Upton chairs. H.R. 1725, NASPAR Reauthorization Act H.R. 1818, the Veteran’s Emergency Medical Technician Support Act H.R. 3680, Co-Prescribing to Reduce Overdoses Act of 2016, as amended H.R. 3691, the Improving Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women Act of 2016 H.R. 4063, the Jason Simcakoski Promoting Responsible Opioid Management and Incorporating Scientific Expertise (PROMISE) Act H.R. 4586, Lali’s Law H.R. 4599, the Reducing Unused Medications Act of 2016 H.R. 4641, to establish an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and update best practices for pain management and how pain medication is prescribed. H.R. 4843, Improving Safe Care for the Prevention of Infant Abuse and Neglect Act H.R. 4969, the John Thomas Decker Act of 2016 H.R. 4976, the Opioid Review Modernization Act of 2016 H.R. 4978, the NAS Healthy Babies Act, as amended H.R. 4981, the Opioid Disorder Treatment Expansion and Modernization Act, as amended H.R. 4982, the Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act of 2016 H.R. 4985, the Kingpin Designation Improvement Act of 2016 H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act H.R. 5048, the Good Samaritan Assessment Act of 2016 H.R. 5052, the Opioid Program Evaluation (OPEN) Act
05.13.2016	KALAMAZOO, MI – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement after learning of the death of Anna Whitten, of Kalamazoo, on Friday. Whitten was a long-time member Kalamazoo Community College Board of Directors, for whom one of the downtown Kalamazoo campus buildings is named. She was also an advisory committee member with the Kalamazoo Valley Museum, and had worked with numerous local organizations championing issues of education, civil rights, health care, and those incarcerated. “Anna Whitten was more than a legend in Southwest Michigan,” said Upton, who has known and worked with her for decades. “She had the biggest heart and passion for so many in our community – particularly the most vulnerable. She demanded the very best and held us all accountable. We, indeed, have all lost a friend.”
05.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Dearborn, last week introduced bipartisan legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives that will champion the FIRST Robotics program. Upton and Dingell were joined by original cosponsors, Rep. Randy Hultgren, R-Illinois, and Rep. Suzanne Bonamici, D-Oregon. The bipartisan legislation, H.R. 5168, will issue a commemorative coin to honor Christa McAuliffe, the science teacher who tragically perished on the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, in recognition of For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology (FIRST), which was founded to inspire young people’s interest in science and technology. Funds for the sale of the coin will help support FIRST’s efforts to mentor and foster Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) education. U.S. Sen. Kelly Ayotte, R-New Hampshire, has introduced similar legislation in the Senate. “FIRST Robotics is one of the premier groups in the country teaching our kids the benefits of science and math education,” said Upton. “Because of these opportunities, these kids will grow up to become inventors, engineers, small business owners, and community leaders of all stripes. It’s vitally important that we continue to encourage this type of innovative learning and team building and I can think of no better way to help support these efforts than by honoring Christa McAuliffe, who inspired a generation of students and teachers to seek out science in order to engineer a better world. I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this bipartisan legislation passed.” “I have witnessed the positive impact FIRST Robotics has had in Michigan for a long time and seen how smart, talented and creative the young people are who participate,” said Dingell. “Students are not only getting hands-on experience with cutting-edge technology, they are graduating at higher rates and are more likely to pursue careers in science and engineering, where they will help tackle some of our most pressing future challenges. We need to encourage this talent and creativity. This coin is a pathway to support these efforts and I am proud to work with Congressman Upton to encourage young people to be at the forefront of innovation and technology.”
04.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and his colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee this week advanced H.R. 5050, the Pipeline Safety Act of 2016. The bipartisan legislation contains spending authorizations for the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) and targeted mandates to increase transparency and accountability, complete overdue regulations, and improve safety. The legislation also tightens provisions allowing PHMSA to issue emergency orders, brings transparency and interagency reviews to the regulatory process, and increases inspections for some underwater oil pipelines, including the Line 5 pipeline under the Straits of Mackinac. “Pipeline safety is something that we should all take seriously and it’s been a priority of mine since I became chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee following the spill in Southwest Michigan that impacted the Kalamazoo River,” said Upton. “While an accident can happen in an instant, the damage takes years to fix, underscoring the need for strong safety laws. We promised action, and we passed a bill that goes a long way in strengthening pipeline safety.” The Pipeline Safety Act of 2016 is the culmination of months of bipartisan work to identify weaknesses in our pipeline safety laws. The legislation has followed “regular order” in the House of Representatives where it received a legislative hearing in March, and was then advanced by the Subcommittee on Energy and Power. NOTE: In 2011, Upton teamed up with former Michigan Rep. John Dingell to get pipeline safety legislation, the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011, signed into law by President Obama in the wake of the Kalamazoo River oil spill.
04.28.2016	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and his colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee this week advanced 22 pieces of legislation that will address the ongoing opioid epidemic, improve the safety and security of energy pipelines, improve aspects of public health and safety, and increase transparency at the Federal Communications Commission. “Individually, each of these bills is important. Collectively, they speak to the hard work of our members on both sides of the aisle to enact meaningful solutions that truly make a difference for folks in Southwest Michigan and across the country,” said Upton. Upton has chaired the Energy and Commerce Committee since 2011. In that time, he has helped usher 133 pieces of legislation or provisions into law with 42 bills and provisions being signed into law this Congress alone. Among the pieces of legislation advanced included: H.R. 5050, the Pipeline Safety Act of 2016, which would modernize our pipeline safety laws by directing targeted mandates for Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) to increase transparency and accountability, complete overdue regulations, and improve safety. H.R. 1818, the Veteran Emergency Technician Support Act of 2015, which would create a demonstration program to streamline emergency medical technician state requirements and procedures for veterans who have already completed military emergency medical technician training. H.R. 3250, the DXM Abuse Prevention Act of 2015, which would prohibit the sale of a drug containing dextromethorphan (DXM) to an individual under the age of 18, unless the individual has a prescription or is actively enrolled in the military and place restrictions on distribution of bulk DXM. H.R. 3680, the Co-Prescribing to Reduce Overdoses Act of 2015, which would create a grant program for co-prescribing opioid reversal drugs for patients who are at a high risk of overdose. H.R. 3691, the Improving Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women Act of 2015, which would reauthorize a residential treatment program that currently provides numerous services to aid pregnant women with substance abuse disorders. H.R. 4586, Lali’s Law, which would amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize grants to states for developing standing orders for naloxone prescriptions and educating health care professionals regarding the dispensing of opioid overdose reversal medications without person-specific prescriptions. H.R. 4876, the Opioid Review Modernization Act, which would require the FDA to work closely with expert advisory committees before making critical product approval and labeling decisions, and to make recommendations regarding education programs for prescribers of extended-release and long-acting opioids. H.R. 4978, the Nurturing and Supporting Healthy Babies Act, which would require the Comptroller General of the United States to issue a report one year after enactment on neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS). H.R. 4981, the Opioid Use Disorder Treatment Expansion and Modernization Act, which would amend the Controlled Substances Act to expand access to medication-assisted treatment, while ensuring that patients receive the full array of quality evidence-based services and minimizing the potential for drug diversion. H.R. 2031, the Anti-Swatting Act of 2015, which would create enhanced penalties for those who use false or misleading caller ID information to trigger a response by law enforcement agencies, known as “swatters.” H.R. 4111, the Rural Health Care Connectivity Act of 2015, which would allow skilled nursing facilities to apply for Universal Service Funding for communications services used to provide health care in rural communities. H.R. 4190, the Spectrum Challenge Prize of 2015, which would create a prize program through the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) to award up to $5 million to participants who develop groundbreaking solutions to maximize spectrum efficiency. H.R. 4889, the Kelsey Smith Act, which would require telecommunications carriers to share location data if law enforcement believes that someone is in danger of death or serious harm. To see a full list of legislation advanced, please click here.
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives today in advancing H.R. 223, the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act (GLRI). The GLRI will help protect the Great Lakes ecosystem by authorizing the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Great Lakes Restoration for Fiscal Year 2016-Fiscal Year 2020 at $300 million annually. The initiative focuses on projects for Great Lakes restoration, including the remediation of toxic substances, the prevention and control of invasive species like Asian Carp, protecting the restoration of near-shore health and prevention of nonpoint source water pollution such as pollution from runoff, and restoring habitat and wildlife. No funds from this legislation can be used for any other initiative. “Supporting and improving our Great Lakes ecosystem and environment remains one of my top-priorities,” said Upton. “I was pleased to be able to co-sponsor and help advance this vital bipartisan legislation, which focuses on improving the environmental quality of our Great Lakes. Whether it’s a lazy Sunday on the lake with family, fishing with friends, or any number of activities – Michiganders all have a deep, personal connection to our lakes – and we’re working to preserve them for the next generation to enjoy.” The legislation was supported by groups including the Great Lakes Commission, the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Cities Initiative, the Great Lakes Metro Chambers Coalition, the National Wildlife Foundation, and the Healing Our Waters – Great Lakes Coalition. For more information on Upton’s work to protect and preserve the Great Lakes, please click here.
04.14.2016	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, sent a letter of support to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx on behalf of the Michigan Department of Transportation’s application for federal grant funding for the I-94 Kalamazoo Interstate Modernization and Capacity Improvement Project. The federal funding grant is available through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s FASTLANE Program. FASTLANE grants were created under last year’s FAST Act, of which Upton was a conferee, which reauthorized federal surface transportation programs and fully funded efforts to support the National Significant Freight and Highway Projects (NSFHP). “Our goal here is simple: Improving our local infrastructure and economy,” said Upton. “I’ve worked with the Michigan Department of Transportation throughout my tenure in Congress to evaluate potential solutions to transportation issues in Southwest Michigan and within the state. Together, we have made significant progress in identifying innovative projects to solve transportation challenges throughout Michigan that have helped connect my constituents with the larger Midwest region. I remain supportive of the Department’s efforts to improve I-94 and modernize our Michigan highways for all to enjoy.” The project grant area is a portion of I-94 from West of US-131 to Sprinkle Road, located in Kalamazoo. The project is located within the Kalamazoo Area Transportation Study’s (KATS) Transportation Management Area (TMA). The $215.5 million project is approximately four miles long and received a Findings of No Significant Impact on the Environment (FONSI) designation on February, 21, 2003. The project is expected to improve traffic flow and safety in an area that is heavily traveled, often seen as a bottleneck for freight traffic traveling from Canada. Along this particular section of I-94, the Commercial Average Daily Traffic (CADT) is approximately 9,300 which is 12-14 percent of all traffic. Two thirds of the project has already been completed at a $145.5 million cost. The cost to complete this project is estimated at approximately $70 million. MDOT is seeking $42 million from the FASTLANE Grant Program towards the final $70 million. A long-time supporter of Southwest Michigan’s infrastructure, economic development, and safety needs, Upton was one of the champions of the U.S. 31 expansion which was completed in 2003. To view a copy of the letter, please click here.
04.13.2016	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today led a congressional hearing on the Flint Water Crisis, and how we can move forward. The hearing, “Flint Water Crisis: Impacts and Lessons Learned,” was held before the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy and the Subcommittee on Health. “The tragic situation in Flint has captured the attention of the nation. The events that unfolded are unacceptable, and sadly there were missteps at all levels of government,” said Upton. “Long after the media leaves Flint and the dust settles there will be real Michigan families grappling with this tragedy for decades, indeed lifetimes. That’s why today’s hearing was forward looking. I’ve said before and will say again: I’m not interested in finger pointing. There has been much of that done already. The focus needs to be on the folks who were impacted – especially the children, and what we can do to ensure this never happens again, anywhere. We cannot and we will not forget those in Flint who have been impacted by this tragedy. No amount of regrets or words can actually fix what’s broken – we need concrete action.” A witness list of those who testified is available here. Click here for video of Upton’s opening statement and here for his witness questioning. Committee timeline of action on Flint Water Crisis: · January 15, 2016: Bipartisan committee leaders request urgent EPA briefing on drinking water in Flint, Michigan; · February 3, 2016: Upton and Congressman Frank Pallone, D-New Jersey, demand further information from EPA and state of Michigan on Flint Water Crisis; · February 10, 2016: The U.S. House of Representatives passes legislation, H.R. 4470, the Safe Drinking Water Act Improved Compliance Awareness Act, sponsored by Upton and Congressman Dan Kildee, D-Michigan. · February 19, 2016: EPA responds to February 3 letter; · February 29, 2016: MDEQ responds to February 3 letter; and, · March 22, 2016: Upton questions EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy on drinking water infrastructure issues during EPA budget hearing.
04.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced a photography contest focused on Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District. The first of its kind contest asks participants to submit their favorite spring themed photo taken in the Sixth District for consideration. The winning photo will be displayed as Upton’s Facebook cover photo and in his two district offices. Submissions will be accepted until Monday, April 25, 2016. “This is an opportunity for shutterbugs across Southwest Michigan to show off their work,” said Upton. “Although the weather is not cooperating at the moment, before long it will be spring and we all know that Southwest Michigan in springtime is one of the most picturesque places in the country. I’m excited to see what folks come up with.” How to enter: · Please email your photo submissions using the following address using the subject line “Fred’s Facebook Cover Photo Contest”: Upton.Press@mail.house.gov · Images should be in standard format (jpg., png., tiff) · Please include your full name, contact information, and a brief description of the photo. · The deadline to submit photos is Monday, April 25, 2016. Rules: · Photographs taken must be within the boundaries of Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District – which encompasses most of Allegan and all of Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, and Van Buren counties. For a map of the Sixth District, please click here. · Submitted photographs must taken by the person submitting the photo and cannot be copyrighted. · Minimum pixel size of submissions should be 399 pixels wide and 150 pixels tall. High-resolution photos are strongly encouraged. · Actual subjects for photographs are left to the full imagination of the photographer; however, our office reserves the right to disqualify any photos that are not suitable for the U.S. House of Representatives. Subjects of contemporary political controversy or a sensationalistic or gruesome nature are not allowed. · Participants must agree to grant permission for Congressman Upton to take and use photographs and/or digital images for use in news releases and/or for educational purposes. · Participants authorize the use of these images without compensation. All digital reproductions shall be the property of Congressman Upton. This information can be found online here. Upton maintains a robust social media operation as a way to stay in touch with constituents. In addition to his Facebook page, Upton has a presence on Medium, Instagram, Snapchat, and Twitter.
03.25.2016	KALAMAZOO, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition: Madeline Peterson, 16, of Portage. A junior currently attending Portage Northern High School, Madeline created a piece that allows viewers to glimpse a portion of the beauty and mystery of the Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore on Lake Superior, through a paper portal. Madeline made the piece for her advanced art class last year and plans to continue her artwork into the future – perhaps in art therapy or to use art in some way that helps other people. According to Madeline, the acrylic and graphite piece took about five hours to complete and was inspired by a photograph her mother had taken at Pictured Rocks and experimented with a ripped paper idea by another artist, Josephine Vailloud, from whom Madeline received permission to use. “This will be another extraordinary piece to represent our community in the U.S. Capitol, where it will hang alongside winners of the Congressional Art Competition from across the country,” said Upton. “Congratulations to Madeline and to everyone who took part in the KIA 2016 High School Area Show.” The 35th annual High School Area Show, sponsored by the Kalamazoo Institutes of Arts, and was hosted by the Congressional Art Competition for the third year. More than 180 works were submitted from artists in grades 9-12 to the Congressional Art Competition, which seeks two-dimensional works that will hang in the U.S. Capitol for a year. In addition to winning the Congressional Art Competition, Madeline’s Picture Rocks piece also won a Juror’s Honorable Mention Award in the overall KIA High School Area Show as well as a Summer Portfolio Camp Scholarship Award from Kendall College of Art and Design of Ferris State University. On the basis of a second piece done by Madeline, Untitled, which was not eligible for the Congressional Art Competition because it included three-dimensional features, she was also awarded a scholarship valued at up to $40,000 to the Cleveland Institute of Art as well as scholarship valued up to $1,000 from Kendall. “I had no idea,” said Madeline of her multiple winnings Thursday night. “I have to do some thinking on what I’m going to do.” Madeline said she’s been drawing since she could pick up a pencil, and drawing and painting are among her favorite pastimes. As the Congressional Art Competition winner for the Sixth Congressional District, Madeline and a guest will be invited to a reception in Washington, D.C. Southwest Airlines is providing two complimentary tickets. The KIA High School Area Show will be on exhibit until May 4, however, Madeline’s winning work will have to exit early in order to get the U.S. Capitol. More than $300,000 worth of prizes and scholarships were awarded at the KIA High School Aera Show. The winners are: Juror's Awards, $100 cash: Seth Burpee, Three Rivers High School Jack Gebben, Parchment High School Taylor Hendrix, St. Joseph High School Marielle Lentz, Portage Central High School Natalie Nelson, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Emily Roth, St. Joseph High School Juror's Honorable Mentions Jaymie Daniel T. Gapayao, Vicksburg High School Madeline Peterson, Portage Northern High School Abigail Russell, Gull Lake Partnership Robby Worden II, KRESA Education for the Arts, Comstock High School SCHOLARSHIP AWARD WINNERS Representatives from each school selected their respective scholarship winners Cleveland Institute of Art awarded a pre-college summer program scholarship, valued at $500, to: Charvi Chhatwal, Saint Joseph High School Cleveland Institute of Art awarded scholarships (value $40,000) to: Elise Blakely, KIA/Gull Lake High School Madeline Peterson, Portage Northern High School Kendall College of Art and Design, Ferris State University, awarded Portfolio Camp scholarships ($1,000 value) to: Charvi Chhatwal, Saint Joseph High School Anna Fischer, St. Joseph High School Hannah Lane-Davies, KRESA Education for the Arts Fred Ouding, Comstock High School Madeline Peterson, Portage Northern High School Emily Roth, St. Joseph High School Emily Salman, Paw Paw High School Sierra Waddle, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Kendall College of Art and Design, Ferris State University, awarded scholarships (total value $70,000+) to: Paige Bailey, Paw Paw High School Charlie Beam, St. Joseph High School Jack Gebben, Parchment High School Taylor Hendrix, Stevensville Lakeshore High School Grace Komah, Stevensville Lakeshore High School Luis Morales, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Sadie Peterson, Vicksburg High School Rachael Saunders, Plainwell High School Gwen Frostic School of Art, Western Michigan University, awarded scholarships (value $156,000) to: Paige Bailey, Paw Paw High School Elise Blakely, KRESA Education for the Arts & Gull Lake High School Seth Burpee, Three Rivers High School Anna Fischer, St. Joseph High School Anthony Fund, Three Rivers High School Jaymie Daniel T. Gapayao, Vicksburg High School Hannah Lane-Davies, KRESA Education for the Arts Natalie Nelson, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Fred Ouding, Comstock High School Madeline Peterson, Portage Northern High School Emily Salman, Paw Paw High School Robby Worden II, KRESA Education for the Arts & Comstock High School Liberty Wesel, KIA Kirk Newman Art School Kirk Newman Art School at the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts awarded scholarships for asummer class to: Josephine Anderson, Kalamazoo Central High School Maddie McAllister, Portage Central High School Emily Salman, Paw Paw High School Robby Worden II, KRESA Education for the Arts & Comstock High School Olivia Wynkoop, Portage Northern High School
03.25.2016	Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and Rep. Jan Schakowsky, D-Illinois, today made the following statements on the news that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has granted Herbert, Michigan, resident Ibrahim Parlak a Deferred Action for one year. “We can all breathe a small sigh of relief now that we have a one year reprieve for our friend and neighbor Ibrahim,” said Upton, who has worked on Ibrahim’s behalf since 2004. “It has truly been a bipartisan, all hands on deck effort these past few weeks to make this happen. Now, our focus will be on finding a bipartisan solution that keeps Ibrahim here at home permanently. We’re going to keep up our full court press on Ibrahim’s behalf.” “Ibrahim Parlak has been a contributing and beloved member of his community for over two decades,” said Schakowsky. “I am pleased the immediate threat of his deportation has been removed. I am proud to have worked with Congressman Fred Upton to prevent the most recent threat, but will continue to work with him until Ibrahim can finally live without worry in the United States.” For more information on Upton’s involvement in Ibrahim’s case, please click here.
03.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, yesterday joined his colleagues on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce’s Subcommittee on Energy and Power in unanimously approving a Discussion Draft of the Pipeline Safety Act of 2016. The Discussion Draft contains spending authorizations for the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) and targeted mandates to increase transparency and accountability, complete overdue regulations, and improve safety. “We can do a better job to improve pipeline safety,” said Upton. “It’s particularly important to tighten inspection requirements for certain underwater oil pipelines such as Line 5, which runs cross the Straits of Mackinac. An accident there would be beyond the worst-case scenario, which is why every precaution must be pursued. This draft bill is an important step forward, but we still have more work to do towards improving pipeline safety and increasing the public confidence in our nation’s energy infrastructure. We have to do better, and we will.” Background: In the wake of the 2010 oil spill in the Kalamazoo River, Upton and former U.S. Representative John Dingell, D-Michigan, championed bipartisan pipeline safety legislation, which was signed into law by President Obama in 2012.
03.17.2016	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced the appointment of Daniel Christensen of Augusta, Michigan, to the United States Air Force Academy. “I’m pleased to be able to nominate a third member of the Christensen family to the Air Force Academy,” said Upton. “It’s an exhaustive process to go through, but such a great honor to be accepted as a future cadet. Folks in our community ought to be proud of Daniel and his accomplishments thus far. We expect great things in the future. I encourage those looking to follow in Daniel’s, and his brothers’, footsteps to contact my office.” Christensen, who attended Gull Lake High School, is currently enrolled at Kalamazoo Valley Community College on a full trustee’s scholarship. While at Gull Lake, Christensen excelled on the football field and in the classroom, earning the 2015 AP Scholar Award. Additionally, he served on the State of Michigan 4-H Young Conservation Council, volunteered with his church’s vacation bible school, and was a member of the Young Eagles/EEA Aviation Club. For the last six years, Christensen has also run his own small business providing lawn care services. Christensen hopes to become a pilot or aeronautical engineer in the Air Force. Christensen is now the third in his family to be appointed to the Air Force Academy, as his older brother, Jeff, currently attends and his oldest brother, Ben, graduated in 2008. All three were nominated and notified by Upton. Upton nominates Students from Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District to military service academies. These are students who have excelled in school and extracurricular activities and are interviewed by members of his Academic Advisory Board, which is made up of community leaders. The individual academies make the final decision on military appointments. Student’s interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s Kalamazoo District Office for further information at 269-385-0039 or by visiting his website here.
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, yesterday joined his colleagues on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations in hosting a “Broad Review of Concussions: Initial Roundtable.” The bipartisan roundtable brought together leaders of medical, military, athletic, and research communities to discuss concussions and head trauma. “A neurosurgeon at Michigan’s Bronson Methodist Hospital told me in February, ‘What we have identified is simple concussions are not quite as simple as they seem to be.’…It’s a sobering assessment for parents, athletes, service members, and citizens who are trying to understand the risk these injuries pose to them or their families,” said Upton. “It’s also why we are here today – to develop a better understanding about what is known, to identify gaps in our scientific and medical knowledge, and to begin charting a path forward that will improve our ability to manage these injuries.” To help prepare for the broad review, Upton recently toured the neuro critical care unit with a neuroscience and surgery team at Bronson Methodist Hospital in Kalamazoo to learn more about concussions and the different ways they can impact people depending on their ages, the severity of the hits, and whether they have repeated concussions. The participant list for yesterday’s roundtable can be found here.
03.07.2016	ST. JOSEPH, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement on the passing of longtime WHTC broadcaster Juke Van Oss: “Not only was Juke the voice of Holland, he was its heart and soul. For more than 60 years Juke brought common sense and a small town sensibility to our airwaves. I was always impressed how he was interested in all sorts of points of views, not just those that matched his own. Inducted into the Michigan Association of Broadcasters Hall of Fame in 2009, Juke’s talents were well known state wide. Juke was a friend to all, and we’re going to miss him greatly.”
03.06.2016	ST. JOSEPH, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement on the passing of former First Lady Nancy Reagan: “Nancy, ever the gracious First Lady, always had her husband’s back. Her crusade with the ‘Just Say No’ campaign against drugs, and later in life with her working trying to find cures, particularly with Alzheimer’s Disease, made her an accomplished individual in her own right. She was very much a part of the storied Reagan legacy. She will be missed.”
03.02.2016	KALAMAZOO, MI. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today invited high school student artist’s living in Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District to take part in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition (CAC.) The winner will have his or her piece hang in the U.S. Capitol for a year along with the winners of the award from Congressional districts across the country. The winner, and a guest, will also be invited to attend a reception in Washington, D.C., along with two free tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend the June reception. “The arts are a vital part of our vibrant and diverse community and I look forward to seeing what our young artists come up with,” said Upton, whose district includes most of Allegan County and all of Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph and Van Buren Counties. “Being able to encourage young artists to create and innovate is one of the most rewarding parts of the job. Plus, the winning submission will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for thousands of folks to see up close, so it’s a great opportunity.” Entry forms for the CAC can be found on Upton’s website here, or at his Kalamazoo District Office located at 157 S. Kalamazoo Mall, Suite 180, in Kalamazoo. Grady Hively of Kalamazoo captured the 2015 CAC Award with his chalk pastel drawing of Kalamazoo’s iconic Henderson Castle. The CAC competition in the Sixth Congressional District is being held in conjunction with the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts High School Area Show, an annual juried art exhibition with slightly different requirements. Ginger Owen, professor of art at Western Michigan University’s Gwen Frostic School of Art, is juror for the competition. Information about the area show, awards, and prizes can be found here. Entries must arrive at the KIA between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. March 9-11 the reception and awards presentation are to be held 5:30 – 7:30 p.m. on March 24. Art teachers, parents, and students are encouraged to contact Lynn Turner, at 269-385-0039 or via email at Lynn.Turner@mail.house.gov for more information.
03.02.2016	KALAMAZOO, MI. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced the appointment of Peter Sinkovitz of Richland, Michigan, to the U.S. Naval Academy. “We are proud of Peter for his leadership and core values as demonstrated by this appointment,” said Upton. “Our community has a rich tradition of producing future leaders and innovators and Peter is definitely one to watch. We know he is going to continue to make us proud.” Sinkovitz was homeschooled in Richland where he was an Eagle Scout and volunteered more than 1,500 hours to service organizations like the Richland Area Community Center, Cheff Therapeutic Riding Center, and helping with the Michigan Department of Transportation’s highway cleanup program. Sinkovitz currently attends the University of Notre Dame and is in the Naval ROTC Program. Additionally, he is involved with the NROTC Color Guard Team, Debate Team, and the Inter-Hall Hockey league. Sinkovitz hopes to serve as a Surface Warfare Officer. Upton nominates students to military service academies from Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District who have excelled in school and in extra-curricular activities. Students are then interviewed by members of his Academy Advisory Board, which is made up of community leaders. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s Kalamazoo District Office for further information at 269-385-0039.
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph today led a moment of silence before the U.S. House of Representatives for the community of Kalamazoo, which is recovering from a horrific shooting spree that occurred over the weekend. Upton was joined by members of the Michigan House Delegation. Click HERE to watch. Full remarks below: Mr. Speaker, it is with deep sadness that I ask for Unanimous Consent to address the House. Michigan has had some tough times lately – Flint and now Kalamazoo, which was rocked this past weekend by terrible random acts of violence. And so I rise today to offer support and encouragement for the victims’ friends and family. We should continue to keep them in our hearts, and in our minds. I also want to thank the countless folks on the front lines who helped prevent this tragedy from being even worse. The swift actions of those on the ground deserve to be commended – particularly the Kalamazoo Sheriff’s Department led by Sheriff Richard Fuller, Kalamazoo Public Safety Chief Jeff Hadley and Mayor Bobby Hopewell. I ask my colleagues and those who hear this message across the country to pray for the families of the six victims, and the recovery of the two injured, including 14-year-old Abigail Kopf of Battle Creek who is fighting for her life, and Tiana Carruthers of Richland Township, who put herself in front of two children and was shot multiple times. It’s heartbreaking but we know that our Kalamazoo community can and will recover from this tragedy. But we will never forget what happened. We remember the lives of Mary Lou Nye of Baroda, Mary Jo Nye, Dorothy Brown, and Barbara Hawthorne of Battle Creek, and Tyler Smith and his dad Richard Smith of Mattawan. This tragedy will not define us, it will not divide us, and it will not defeat us. We are Kalamazoo. With that, I ask that the House pause for a moment of silence in honor of those impacted by the tragic events in Kalamazoo.
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, applauded the swift passage of H.R. 4470, the Safe Drinking Water Act Improved Compliance Awareness Act, by the U.S. House of Representatives today in a 416-2 vote. The bipartisan legislation was co-sponsored by all 14 members of the Michigan Congressional Delegation and is similar to legislation in the U.S. Senate sponsored by Senators Stabenow and Peters. “Our hearts all go out to Flint. All folks want is the peace of mind that their governments are looking out for their best interest, and that their water is safe,” said Upton, who also chairs the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. “I wish this bill was not necessary, but it is. The system let the people of Flint down at every level, and that’s unacceptable. The entire situation breaks your heart, and we have a responsibility, working together as Republicans and Democrats, to fix the problem in Flint. This bill is an important step.” H.R. 4470 specifically requires drinking water systems to notify customers when 10 percent of its customers have lead levels above the “lead action level” of 15 parts per billion. It also closes a gap in current law by requiring that if a State fails to notify water customers within 24 hours of receiving information from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) about a potential effect on human health from short-term lead exposure, the EPA must issue the notification. H.R. 4470 also requires the EPA to create a strategic plan for handling and improving information flow between its own personnel, workers at water utilities, state officials, and affected consumers. This ensures that a planning template will be in place to prevent crises, so that water systems and states are not creating a reaction plan on-the-fly after the crisis hits. For more information on H.R. 4470, please click here.
02.04.2016	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and Congressman Dan Kildee, D-Flint, today announced joint legislation pertaining to the ongoing water crisis in Flint, Michigan. The bill is co-sponsored by all 14 members of Michigan’s Congressional Delegation. The Safe Drinking Water Act Improved Compliance Awareness Act will strengthen requirements to have the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) step in to notify the public when concentrations of lead in drinking water are above federal requirements. It requires the EPA to create a strategic plan for handling and improving information flow between water utilities, the states, the EPA, and affected consumers. It also ensures consumer notification when the corrosiveness of water being transported in a lead pipe could leech into public drinking water. The legislation is similar to a bill introduced by Michigan Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters in the U.S. Senate. “What happened in Flint is simply unacceptable at all levels. No amount of regrets or words can actually fix what’s broken – we need concrete action,” said Upton, who chairs the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. “Our bipartisan legislation will ensure consumers are not kept in the dark and makes certain the EPA fulfills their fundamental duty to warn the public of high lead levels. Our efforts now must focus on helping those Flint families who need clean water. We’re not letting up.” “When there are unacceptable levels of lead in people’s drinking water, they should immediately be told about it,” Congressman Kildee said. “This legislation, supported by Democrats and Republicans, strengthens notification requirements for the public and changes federal law to ensure that people are notified quickly when there are dangerous levels of lead in their drinking water. This is the latest action I’m taking in Congress to promote accountability and help Flint recover from this terrible man-made tragedy.” Read the full text of the legislation online HERE.
01.29.2016	KALAMAZOO, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced that Grace Beverage of Portage, Michigan, has been accepted to attend the United States Military Academy (USMA) at West Point. Upton nominated Beverage to the prestigious academy and personally congratulated her on her appointment. “To be able to nominate and now announce the appointment of this young woman is a great honor,” said Upton. “Being accepted for admission to the USMA at West Point is an exceptional credit to Grace and her family, and they are rightfully very excited about this opportunity. Traditionally, cadets at West Point go on to serve our country at the very highest levels. Our community is thrilled to watch Grace go for her dreams and become a respected member in the ‘Long Gray Line’”. Beverage is a student at Portage Central High School, where she is a member of Portage Central’s National Honor Society, a member of the KAMSC student senate, and Secretary of the Portage Youth Advisory Council for Youth in Government. She is also a varsity athlete, running cross country and playing lacrosse and is a teen volunteer for the Portage District Library. She hopes to become an Officer in the Engineer Corps. Upton nominates students to military service academies from Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District who have excelled in school and in extra-curricular activities. Students are then interviewed by members of his Academy Advisory Board, which is made up of community leaders. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s Kalamazoo District Office for further information at 269-385-0039.
01.28.2016	ST. JOSEPH, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced that Raul Cuellar III of St. Joseph, Michigan, has been accepted to attend the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland. Upton recommended Raul for selection to the prestigious service academy and has personally congratulated him on the appointment. “Young people like Raul who excel not only in the classroom but beyond make our community stronger,” said Upton. “I was honored to be able to speak to Raul and announce his appointment. He is very excited. Raul is a leader on the rise and we are all eager to watch his journey unfold.” Raul is a student at St. Joseph High School where he is a member of the National Honor Society, captain of the varsity wrestling team, Student Ambassador, and active in the math and Spanish clubs. Additionally, Raul volunteers at Lakeland Hospital and the Salvation Army of Benton Harbor. Both of Raul’s grandfathers served in the Navy during the Vietnam War. Raul hopes to become a Naval Aviator and study mathematics at the academy. Upton nominates students to military service academies from Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District who have excelled in school and in extra-curricular activities. Students are then interviewed by members of his Academy Advisory Board, which is made up of community leaders. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s Kalamazoo District Office for further information at 269-385-0039.
01.27.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, announced his nominations of local students to United States Service Academies. The 16 service academy nominees for the 2015-2016 academic year have excelled both academically as well as athletically in their respective schools and have gone through an extensive selection process. “Being able to nominate such talented local students to our nation’s prestigious military service academies is one of my greatest honors as a Member of Congress,” said Upton. “These young men and women represent the best of our community and aim to follow in the tradition of some of America’s brightest minds. Each member of this group has gone through a rigorous selection process, not to mention excelled in the classroom and beyond. We’re so proud of their accomplishments so far, and expect great things from them in the future.” The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board, which is comprised of local community leaders. Upon approval by the board, the students’ names were given to Upton, who then officially nominated the students to military academies. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. All applicants to military academies must be nominated by a Members of Congress, the Vice President, or the President. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s Kalamazoo District Office for further information: 268-385-0039. They can also learn more about the academies, and the application process here. Upton has nominated the following students for the class of 2020: United States Naval Academy Raul Cuellar, St. Joseph, St. Joseph High School Gunner Harrison, Stevensville, Auburn University Elena Shafer, Paw Paw, Paw Paw High School Noah Pollack, Portage, Arizona State University Benjamin Coll, Kalamazoo, Portage Central High School Gabriel Pedraza, Portage, Portage Central High School Connor Sloan, Schoolcraft, Schoolcraft High School Peter Sinkovitz, Richland, University of Notre Dame United States Military Academy Matthew Robinson, Dorr, United States Military Preparatory School Kory Patrick, Richland, Gull Lake High School Caleb Kim, Berrien Springs, Berrien Springs High School Francine Barchett, Benton Harbor, Grace Christian School Grace Beverage, Portage, Portage Central High School United States Air Force Academy Jacob Simon, South Haven, South Haven High School Daniel Christensen, Augusta, Kalamazoo Valley Community College Eric Petosky, Constantine, Constantine High School
01.27.2016	BENTON HARBOR, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today met with Benton Harbor Mayor Marcus Muhammad in his Benton Harbor office. “It was great to catch up with Mayor Muhammad and discuss issues of importance to our community,” said Upton. “As we look to the year ahead of us I know we’ll have a strong partnership as we focus on common goals of job creation, economic growth, and improving the lives of everyone here in Southwest Michigan.”
01.20.2016	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and U.S. Rep. Jan Schakowsky, D-Illinois, sent a letter Friday to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and Immigrations Customs and Enforcement officials in support of the motion to reopen the case against Harbert, Michigan, resident Ibrahim Parlak. Upton and Schakowsky write in full support of the motion before the Immigration Review Board to reopen Parlak’s case as he seeks relief under the Convention Against Torture (CAT) protections afforded by the United States. The two Congressional representatives ask that the Department of Homeland Security refrain from opposing the motion so that a fresh review of Parlak’s plea for asylum can be heard alongside evidence of the rising threats to the Kurdish people in Turkey. The letter, in part, states, “Eleven years have passed since Mr. Parlak’s previous request for relief under CAT was considered and denied. The passage of time notwithstanding, the changes in the Middle East, and specifically the evolving conflict between the Turkish government and the Kurdish people warrant a fresh perspective on Mr. Parlak’s case, and the certain prosecution he would face if he were returned today.” To read the full letter, please click here.
01.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement upon House passage of S.J. Res. 22 – Congressional Disapproval of the “Waters of the United States” Rule, which would nullify the controversial EPA rule that would regulate ditches and standing water in farmers’ low-lying fields as federally regulated waterways. “The ‘WOTUS’ Rule is out-of-touch, ill-advised government overreach and would spell disaster for our agriculture communities in Southwest Michigan and across the country,” said Upton. “I am pleased that we again stood up for jobs, our rural communities, and common sense. As the court battles continue, Congress has spoken loud and clear: This proposed rule needs to go back to the drawing board.” S.J. Res 22 is a joint resolution Congressional resolution which was passed by the Senate on November 4, 2015.
12.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released a new report titled “2015: The Year in Review and a Look Ahead” which outlines many of the legislative and policy priorities his office tackled in 2015 and looks towards the new year. “We had a busy year working to move the ball down the field by focusing on commonsense, bipartisan solutions to problems faced by families and businesses here in Southwest Michigan and across the country,” said Upton, who also chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “I’m proud of the progress we’ve made on a host of fronts, and look forward to the new year as we still have much work yet to be done as we pursue an ambitious, pro-growth agenda. I’m excited and optimistic about the opportunities before us as we continue to get the job done for everyone in Southwest Michigan.” The report breaks down specific policy areas in which Congressman Upton has been a bipartisan community leader; jobs and the economy, healthcare innovation, veterans care, homeland security, education, the Great Lakes, Medicare and Medicaid, agriculture, opioid abuse, infrastructure, and the Internet. Click HERE to read the report.
12.18.2015	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement upon passage of the Consolidated Appropriations Act. “I’m pleased we were able to come together in a bipartisan manner to get this done,” said Upton. “While never perfect, at the end of the day this agreement is a win for jobs and our economy here in Southwest Michigan and across the country. We were able to advance common-sense solutions on a host of fronts; including securing a $2 billion infusion for the National Institutes of Health which adds momentum to our 21st Century Cures initiative, and getting the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative fully funded – which marks a major victory for our region. I look forward to 2016 when, under Speaker Paul Ryan’s leadership, we will return to a more customary, open appropriations process that gets our fiscal house in order.” BACKGROUND: The omnibus advances several priorities that will benefit Southwest Michigan families and businesses including increased investments in Alzheimer’s research, repealing Country of Origin (COOL) requirements, repealing the government’s 40-year-old ban on exporting crude oil, and increasing military spending and tightening security requirements under the nation’s Visa Waiver Program.
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement upon passage of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act which permanently renews vital tax credits. “I’ve heard directly from folks in Southwest Michigan who want nothing more than certainty in the tax code, and that’s precisely what we did today with the passage of the PATH Act,” said Upton. “This certainty will prevent tax increases, help create good paying local jobs, boost our economy, and lays the groundwork for meaningful, bipartisan tax reform in 2016 – something I’ve long supported. Today is a big-time win for our local small business community and for hard-working folks across the country.”
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, Senator Debbie Stabenow, D-Michigan, and Senator Gary Peters, D-Michigan, today celebrated the announcement that the Michigan Air National Guard’s 110th Attack Wing, stationed in Battle Creek, will be host of a new Cyber Operation Squadron distinction. “We’re so proud of the effort put forth by our men and women in the Michigan Air National Guard to get the prestigious assignment,” said Upton. “Cyber security threats are one of the greatest national security threats we face today and our future depends on reliable cyberspace for everything from infrastructure, commerce, communications, and government. The 110th Attack Wing has demonstrated incredible skill and the team at Battle Creek, and the Michigan Air National Guard, is to be commended for the work they have done in proving their capability in the defense of our nation’s cyber security.” “Given the dependence of our country’s military, infrastructure, and economy on computers and the Internet, this new cyber squadron puts Michigan at the forefront in protecting our nation,” said Stabenow. “Earlier this year, Congressman Upton and I led our colleagues on a tour of Michigan’s military installations – including Battle Creek Air National Guard Base – to see firsthand the important role Michigan plays in our nation’s defense. Today’s announcement is a credit to the men and women in Battle Creek’s 110th Attack Wing and underscores our state’s leadership and expertise in cyber security.” “We must remain vigilant against the evolving national security threat posed by cyber attacks on our military assets, civilian infrastructure and financial sector,” said Peters. “I was proud to join with the Michigan Congressional Delegation to advocate for a Cyber Squadron in Battle Creek, and today’s announcement is a true recognition of the skill and accomplishments of the 110th Attack Wing and its critical role in bolstering American military cyber defense capabilities.” A Cyber Operations Squadron is a 70-person dual-use squadron which conducts a multitude of cyber domain operations in support of the overall Air Force Cyber Mission Force. The 110th Attack Wing is already home to a pilot program that has trained technicians and has much of the infrastructure required to take on this new mission. In April, Upton and Stabenow led a bipartisan, bicameral letter, urging top officials at the U.S. Department of Defense to select the 110th Attack Wing in Battle Creek to host a cyber squadron. The letter was signed by the entire Michigan Congressional Delegation: Senator Peters, Rep. John Conyers, Rep. Sander Levin, Rep. Candice Miller, Rep. Tim Walberg, Rep. Justin Amash, Rep. Dan Benishek, Rep. Bill Huizenga, Rep. Dan Kildee, Rep. Mike Bishop, Rep. Debbie Dingell, Rep. Brenda Lawrence, Rep. John Moolenaar, and Rep. David Trott.
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, applauded the passage of H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015, sponsored by Rep. Candice Miller, R-Michigan. The legislation aims to secure the United States international borders to prevent terrorists and instruments of terrorism from entering the U.S. and was advanced on the House floor today by a bipartisan vote of 407-19. “In this current climate of terrorism, we must provide those working to keep us safe all the tools needed to protect us from international vulnerabilities within our Visa Waiver Program,” said Upton. “This bill strengthens the security of our Visa Waiver Program so that we protect our national security and enhance our safety. I applaud the passage of this thoughtful, bipartisan piece of legislation and want to thank Congresswoman Miller for her diligent work in making it a reality.” Among other provisions, the legislation requires countries participating in our Visa Waiver Program to continually share terrorism and foreign traveler data with the U.S. and requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to suspend their participation if they do not meet this requirement. It also requires all Visa Waiver Program travelers use Electronic Passports, “e-passports,” with biometric enabled chips by April 1, 2016 and would require countries to have in place mechanisms to validate e-passports. It would also disqualify from the Visa Waiver Program anyone who has traveled to Syria or Iraq within the last five years. The Visa Waiver Program was created in 1986, and allows more than 20 million people annually from 38 participating countries to more easily travel to the U.S. for up to 90 days. Instead of going to a U.S. consulate or embassy, citizens of participating countries must provide detailed background information that is then screened by U.S. security systems.
12.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, applauded the unanimous passage of H.R. 1321, the Microbead-Free Waters Act of 2015. The bipartisan legislation, co-sponsored by Upton and Rep. Frank Pallone, D-New Jersey, would ban the use of microbeads in rinse off cosmetic products. “These microbeads are tiny plastic, but make for big-time pollution. As someone who grew up on Lake Michigan and represents a large chunk of Michigan coastline, I understand firsthand how important it is to maintain the beauty and integrity of our Great Lakes,” said Upton, who chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “The Great Lakes have survived many a foe – severe pollution, oil spills, discharge from refineries, zebra mussels, and attempts to steal our water, just to name a few. We will fight any activity that puts our beloved Great Lakes in jeopardy.” Microbeads are tiny scrubbers found in cleansers, body scrubs, and toothpaste. On their own, they are nearly invisible, smaller than a pinhead. Once they are flushed down the drain, the problems begin. Because they are so small, microbeads easily flow through water filtration systems and end up in bodies of water, including the Great Lakes. They are known to absorb pollutants and are often mistake as food by fish and wildlife. H.R. 1321 would ban the use of microbeads in rinse off cosmetic products. The ban on manufacturing microbeads is to begin on July 1, 2017, the ban on manufacturing over-the-counter drugs and on sales of cosmetics with microbeads is to begin on July 1, 2018 and the ban on sales of over-the-counter drugs containing microbeads is to begin July 1, 2019. H.R. 1321 previously advanced through the Energy and Commerce Committee on a unanimous vote in November.
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined the majority of his House colleagues in voting to advance S. 1177, the Every Student Succeeds Act. S. 1177, which would replace No Child Left Behind, was approved by a bipartisan vote of 359 - 64. “This long overdue bipartisan bill puts parents, teachers, and students first,” said Upton. “It provides our education system a certainty that has sorely been missing in recent years. I’ve heard from countless Southwest Michigan stakeholders that they wanted the federal government out of the classroom and more flexibility for our local educators – that’s exactly what this bill does.” Among other bipartisan, commonsense reforms, The Every Student Succeeds Act would: · Reduce the federal role in K-12 education by giving local and state officials more flexibility to define what it means for a school to be successful, and how to intervene in schools that continue to fail to live up to expectations. · Enable States to determine which standards are best for its schools and prevent the federal government from incentivizing or requiring states to make certain education choices like adopting Common Core. · Provide individual school districts more funding flexibility. · Remove the high stakes federal consequences for annual assessments. Instead, individual states will now be allowed to determine how those test scores factor into their accountability or funding systems. · Empower parents by providing information about local school performance and promoting school of choice options.
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his House colleagues in advancing H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act by a bipartisan 249-174 vote. The innovative legislation, sponsored by Upton, focuses on updating the United States’ energy policy to properly reflect the changing energy landscape. “How can it be in the 21st century with incredible energy abundance we can’t get energy to consumers in some parts of the country? This bill is the fix we need to ensure folks in Southwest Michigan and every corner of the country have access to affordable and reliable energy,” said Upton, who also chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “A decade ago no one could have imagined where we would be in 2015 and how much the energy script would be flipped in our favor. This bill promotes access to affordable and reliable energy, diversity, efficiency, and modernization of our energy infrastructure, and most important it modernizes our electricity grid. Today, the House put the scarcity mindset in the rear view mirror and said yes to affordable energy and yes to jobs.” Since most of our energy policies are rooted in the 1970’s energy scarcity mindset, H.R. 8 focuses on updating our energy laws to maximize our energy potential. H.R. 8 includes four main pillars – modernizing our energy infrastructure, protecting our electricity system, strengthening our energy security and diplomacy, and improving energy efficiency and government accountability. To read a recent op-ed on H.R. 8 from Congressman Upton that appeared in Morning Consult, please click here. To view letters of support for H.R. 8, please click here.
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his House colleagues in voting to advance the conference report for H.R. 22, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which authorizes federal surface transportation programs through fiscal year 2020. The legislation was approved by an overwhelming 359-65 bipartisan vote. “You don’t have to look both ways to see that this is a big time win for Southwest Michigan drivers, businesses, and families,” said Upton. “A five-year authorization gives us the certainty we need to continue our important work on much needed improvements to local infrastructure projects. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation will also create good-paying jobs here at home and across the country. I’m proud of the bipartisan work it took to get this done.” The FAST Act is a fully paid-for surface transportation reauthorization of federal highway, transit, highway safety, motor carriers safety, hazardous materials, and passenger rail programs. It reforms and strengthens surface transportation infrastructure and safety programs and increases flexibility for states and local governments to better address their own unique infrastructure priorities. Upton was a conferee on the highway legislation, and the legislation included several provisions related to energy and auto safety championed by Upton that made it into the final legislation. Learn more about these provisions here.
12.02.2015	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, took time to spread some holiday cheer and write to our men and women in uniform serving overseas as part of the American Red Cross’ Holiday Mail for Heroes program. “I’m constantly thankful for our military men and women in uniform, but especially around the holidays,” said Upton. “I want to thank the American Red Cross for sponsoring the Holiday Mail for Heroes program. It’s a simple gesture that really can go a long way.” Upton’s office recently sponsored a local Holiday Mail for Heroes program in both the Kalamazoo and St. Joseph/Benton Harbor area.
11.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his House colleagues in voting to advance S. 611, the Grassroots Rural and Small Community Water Systems Assistance Act. “This bipartisan bill is a big win for our smaller and more rural communities throughout Southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “These communities often face real challenges trying to comply with federal safe drinking water regulations, and this bill will help level the playing field. As a result, families across Southwest Michigan will have easier access to safe drinking water.” S. 611 will amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to help alleviate the financial burden imposed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on small and rural drinking supply systems. It would reauthorize the EPA program that provides technical assistance to small public water systems and authorize the EPA to provide technical assistance programs to small public water systems through grants or cooperative agreements made to non-profit organizations. The legislation was cleared by the U.S. Senate in June, and was unanimously approved by Upton’s Committee on Energy and Commerce earlier this month. It now heads to the president’s desk for his signature.
11.19.2015	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today voted in support of H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015. Upton was joined by a majority of his House colleagues as the legislation advanced by a veto-proof 289-137 margin. “This is about our national security and our first priority must be protecting the American people,” said Upton. “In this current climate of terrorism, no errors can be made and our humanitarian efforts must be balanced with keeping our country safe. This straightforward legislation offers a smart path forward as we continue working to combat the very real threat of terrorism both here at home and abroad.” The American SAFE Act would put a pause on admission of refugees from Iraq and Syria and require an extensive background check for every refugee to ensure they are not a security threat to the United States. A refugee will not be admitted if the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) cannot certify if a background investigation was sufficient. Additionally, the legislation requires the Department of Homeland Security to report to Congress on the number of refugees certified and not certified.
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined all of his colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee in voting to advance H.R. 1321, the Microbead-Free Waters Act of 2015. Upton is an original cosponsor of the bipartisan legislation with Rep. Frank Pallone, D-New Jersey. “Microbeads may be tiny plastic – but they are big time pollution, especially for our Great Lakes," said Upton, who chairs the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. “Today’s unanimous approval of this critical bipartisan bill will protect Lake Michigan and all of our waters from these pesky pieces of plastic. On their own, microbeads are nearly invisible, but once they’ve been flushed down the drain is where the trouble begins. Microbeads are causing mega-problems, and we’re going to fix it.” “The Alliance for the Great Lakes supports the Microbead-Free Waters Act of 2015,” said Molly M. Flanagan, Vice President of Policy at the Alliance for the Great Lakes. “This legislation will protect the Great Lakes from plastic microbeads that are fouling our waters and contaminating fish. Thank you to Congressmen Pallone and Upton for their leadership in solving this national problem.” H.R. 1321 will ban the use of microbeads in rinse off cosmetic products. The ban on manufacturing microbeads will begin on July 1, 2017, the ban manufacturing over-the-counter drugs and on sales of cosmetics with microbeads will begin on July 1, 2018, and the ban on sales of over-the-counter drugs containing microbeads will begin July 1, 2019. H.R. 1321 is expected to be considered on the House floor in the near future.
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined the majority of his House colleagues in voting to advance four bipartisan pieces of legislation designed to improve the lives of veterans, and their families. “We shouldn’t just keep our brave veterans in mind on Veterans Day, we should be working to improve their lives every single day,” said Upton. “Here in the House of Representatives – that’s exactly what we’re committed to doing. By advancing these common-sense bipartisan bills we’re making it easier for veterans to get jobs, own small businesses, and help their families. I can’t think of anything more important.” The four bipartisan pieces of legislation advanced: H.R. 1694, the Fairness to Veterans for Infrastructure Investment Act of 2015, which would improve contracting opportunities for veteran-owned small businesses. H.R. 3114, To provide funds to the Army Corps of Engineers to hire veterans and members of the Armed Forces to assist the Corps with curation and historic preservation activities. H.R. 1338, the Dignified Interment of Our Veterans Act of 2015, which would require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study related to the burial of unclaimed remains of veterans in national cemeteries. H.R. 1384, the Honor America’s Guard-Reserve Retirees Act, which would recognize the service of certain persons in reserve units by honoring them as veterans. To learn more about Upton’s work to help our veterans, please click here. Additionally, veterans in Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District in need of service are urged to contact Chad Dillon at Upton’s Kalamazoo District Office - (269) 385-0039.
11.17.2015	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and his colleagues on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce’s Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy hosted a bipartisan briefing today titled “Overview of CERCLA Implementation.” Upton was joined by Bruce Merchant, former public services director for the City of Kalamazoo and current consultant for the Allied Site cleanup project, for the bipartisan briefing. Merchant answered questions from members of Congress and spoke about the role local governments can play in Superfund cleanups, specifically the role the City of Kalamazoo has played in the Kalamazoo River Superfund site. “Today’s bipartisan briefing was highly informative and I was happy to have a respected local leader like Bruce Merchant able to attend so he could provide a Southwest Michigan perspective to this national issue,” said Upton, who chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Today’s briefing was another step towards ensuring states and local stakeholders continue to have a strong voice in Superfund decisions.” “I was glad to be able to join today’s bipartisan briefing so that I could give a local lay-of-the-land on CERCLA and Superfund issues,” said Merchant. “The City of Kalamazoo and its residents continue to play a strong role in moving the ball forward at the Kalamazoo River Superfund site and ensuring our voices are being heard in what can be a complex decision-making process. I want to thank Congressman Upton for the invitation and for his continued involvement in the Kalamazoo River Superfund efforts.” CERCLA – Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act – was enacted in 1980. States are encouraged by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to participate in the Superfund process and States are formally involved in almost all phases of Superfund decision-making. To learn more about Upton’s involvement in the Kalamazoo River Superfund site, please click here.
11.13.2015	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today issued the following statement on news Perrigo Co. shareholders have rejected the hostile takeover by Mylan NV: “Kudos to the round-the-clock, round-the-world efforts by the Perrigo team,” Upton said. "This a relief and much-deserved win for the hard working men and women of the Allegan community. Thankfully shareholders sided with the local community. The stockholders were convinced that the solid management and growth were far better than being bought off in a hostile takeover resulting in more job losses in the United States and Michigan.”
11.11.2015	ST. JOSEPH, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the occasion of Veterans Day. “We owe all who have served – both past and present – an enormous debt of gratitude,” said Upton. “While our veterans come from many different backgrounds and traveled diverse paths, when they were called upon – they came together and fought for us and one another as brothers and sisters in arms. They represent the best in us as Americans. We also remember our troops serving today, their courage and devotion continue to inspire us. We remain forever grateful to all of our veterans who defended our homeland in times of peace and war. We truly remain the land of the free because of our brave.”
11.10.2015	ST. JOSEPH, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today formally announced the addition of Mike Ryan to his St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office as District Representative/Project Coordinator. “I am pleased that Mike Ryan decided to join our team,” said Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “He brings a wealth of knowledge that will help us assist folks in Southwest Michigan in working with the federal government. I firmly believe this, and making sure our constituent voices are heard, remain the most important responsibilities of a Member of Congress.” Ryan, a long-time leader in the St. Joseph/Benton Harbor community, most recently served as Vice President and Trust Officer for Horizon Trust and Investment Management, a community bank that serves Northern Indiana and Southwest Michigan. He is also a board member of both the St. Joseph Public Schools Foundation and Kiwanis Club of St. Joseph; founder and race director of the Steelhead Triathlon and is also involved with the Samaritan Counseling Center and the Cornerstone Alliance. He is the father of three grown children and proud grandfather of two. Upton represents Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District – Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, Van Buren counties and most of Allegan County. The constituent service offices provide assistance and resources to all Southwest Michigan residents and businesses in dealing with the federal government, including expediting a needed Social Security benefit or presenting overdue service medals to one of our brave veterans. The constituent service offices are located at 720 Main St. in St. Joseph and 157 S. Kalamazoo Mall, Ste. 180, in Kalamazoo. To find out more about how these offices can help, please visit: upton.house.gov
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to advance S. 1356, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The NDAA Conference Report that previously had passed the House and Senate was adjusted to match the spending levels set forth in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 but retains the policies as passed by Congress. “The NDAA was a bipartisan process from the start and I’m glad to see it moving forward, again, with all due speed,” said Upton. “President Obama should sign it into law without further delay. Our military, their families, and our veterans deserve nothing less.” Last week, Upton joined fellow West Michigan Congressman Bill Huizenga in penning an op-ed for the Holland Sentinel where they outlined their opposition to President Obama vetoing the bipartisan legislation.
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the passage of the highway bill, a multi-year surface transportation bill that reauthorizes and reforms federal highway, transit, and highway safety programs. The legislation was advanced by the House by a strong 363-64 bipartisan vote. “Anyone who has ever driven on our Michigan roads knows we need to make long-term, strategic investments in our crumbling infrastructure,” said Upton. “The innovative, bipartisan legislation we advanced today maintains a strong commitment to public safety, will help create jobs and boost our economy, and help improve the quality of life for those in Michigan and across the country. It also gives local stakeholders and the Michigan Department of Transportation more flexibility in choosing programs and improving our transportation infrastructure where it’s needed most.”
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, signed on as a cosponsor of bipartisan legislation, H.R. 223, the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act of 2015, which will help protect the Great Lakes by authorizing the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Great Lakes Restoration Initiative for Fiscal Year 2016-Fiscal Year 2020 at $300 million annually. The initiative focuses on projects for the Great Lakes restoration, including the remediation of toxic substances, the prevention and control of invasive species like Asian Carp, protecting the restoration of near-shore health and prevention of nonpoint source water pollution, and protecting and restoring habitat and wildlife. “Protecting our Great Lakes for future generations continues to be one of my top priorities,” said Upton. “Our Great Lakes are the lifeline of Southwest Michigan and communities across the region. The Great Lakes restoration initiative is commonsense, bipartisan legislation that will help create and keep jobs, boost our local economy, stop the spread of invasive species like Asian Carp, and ensure safe drinking water. I look forward to working with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to get this done.” The legislation currently has 43 cosponsors (23 Republicans, 20 Democrats) and has been referred to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure’s Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment. For more information on Upton’s work to protect and preserve the Great Lakes, please click here.
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement following the election of Congressman Paul D. Ryan, R-Wisconsin, to the position of Speaker of the House of Representatives. “We will have a steady hand at the tiller with the selection of Paul Ryan to lead the people’s House today,” said Upton, who chairs the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. “I appreciate Paul’s commitment to advancing solutions in a thoughtful and deliberate way and know we will get to work quickly to address pressing issues that present both challenges and opportunities. I want to again thank John Boehner for his tireless work and dedication on behalf of the American people. As we move forward, I remain confident that when we work together, we can get the job done for folks in Southwest Michigan and across the entire country.”
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined the majority of his colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy in advancing S. 611, Grassroots Rural and Small Community Water Systems Act. The legislation advanced by a voice vote and will now move to the full Energy and Commerce Committee for consideration. “Many smaller and rural communities across Southwest Michigan face significant challenges in replacing, maintaining, and upgrading their drinking and waste-water infrastructure,” said Upton, who chairs the full committee. “These communities often face increased costs and burdens of meeting the complex regulatory requirements under the Safe Drinking Water Act. This bipartisan bill is a common sense win for smaller and rural communities in Southwest Michigan and across the country and I look forward to seeing it signed into law by the president.” S. 611 will amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to help alleviate the financial burden the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has placed on small and rural drinking supply systems. It would reauthorize the EPA program that provides technical assistance to small public water systems and authorize EPA to provide technical assistance programs to small public water systems through grants or cooperative agreements made to non-profit organizations. S. 611 was advanced by the U.S. Senate on June 9, 2015. A small or rural community is defined as one with 10,000 residents or less.
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his House colleagues in advancing H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. The legislation was advanced by a bipartisan vote of 266-167. “It’s been a long and winding road to get here and the process certainly wasn’t perfect, but the bipartisan deal we got done today is good for our seniors, military, taxpayers, and economy,” said Upton. “It contains meaningful reforms to our entitlement system and will prevent a catastrophic spike in Medicare Part B premiums for millions of our seniors. As we look ahead here in the House, I remain ever-committed to working in a bipartisan manner to get the job done for Southwest Michigan families and businesses.” The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 adjusts the spending caps for two years by $80 billion, $50 billion the first year, and $30 billion in the second year. These adjustments are equally divided between defense, and non-defense spending. Additionally, it will help secure long-term savings from entitlement reforms, protect our economy from a dangerous default, strengthen our national security and protect our troops and their families, and bring certainty to the Congressional appropriations process. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office recently confirmed that the legislation is fully paid for.
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his House colleagues in voting to advance H.R. 597 – To Reauthorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States. The bipartisan legislation was advanced by a vote of 313-118. “Reauthorizing the Export-Import bank with real reforms will help create jobs, boost our economy, and reduce the deficit,” said Upton. “The bank is an investment for Southwest Michigan and communities across the country. There is no doubt that the bank needed to be reformed so that it could be more effective and efficient, and the bipartisan legislation we advanced today will ensure just that. By focusing on small businesses, taxpayer accountability, and anti-corruption safeguards, the Export-Import bank will now be more agile than ever to help American businesses succeed in the 21st century global marketplace.” The Export-Import bank currently supports 15 Southwest Michigan companies and nearly 500 local jobs. It also supports nearly 60,000 Michigan jobs. Reforms made to today’s reauthorization include; Limiting taxpayer exposure by lowering the bank’s borrowing cap for the first time, putting greater emphasis on bank lending to small businesses to allow them to grow into medium-sized enterprises, combating fraud and ethical misconduct by creating a non-political Chief Ethics Officer, bringing the bank into the 21st century by making targeted technology infrastructure updates, and requiring the president to pursue a global end to export credit financing, which would eventually eliminate the need for the bank in the United States.
10.26.2015	KALAMAZOO, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, invites residents of the Sixth Congressional District to share the spirit of the season with cards to our active duty military personnel, their families, and our veterans through the Red Cross Holiday Mail for Heroes program. “Anyone can make a card or write a note to let our brave men and women in uniform, their families, and our veterans know that we care, appreciate their service, and wish them well during the holiday season,” said Upton. “It’s a simple gesture that can mean so much to someone who may be away from their loved ones.” Area residents, schools, and community organizations are encouraged to take part by writing or making cards of appreciation. Cards may be dropped off at either of his constituent services offices in Kalamazoo or St. Joseph/Benton Harbor. The offices will accept cards dropped off until Tuesday, November 17, and will deliver them to a local Red Cross office. Red Cross officials ask senders to keep in mind these guidelines: · Include a heartfelt message, but sign your first name; do NOT include phone number or email addresses. · Use generic titles such as “Dear Service Member, Veteran, or Military Family Member” when writing cards. · Please do not use cards with glitter as it may aggravate health issues. · Please do NOT enclose additional items such as gift cards, photos, or other gifts as they will be removed. · Envelopes are unnecessary for the cards. Upton’s constituent service office are located at: Kalamazoo District Office 157 S. Kalamazoo Mall, Ste. 180 Kalamazoo, MI 49007 269-385-0039 St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office 720 Main St. St. Joseph, MI 49085 26-982-1986
10.22.2015	ST. JOSEPH, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the unsolicited, hostile takeover bid of Perrigo Company from Mylan. “Perrigo Company has been an integral part of our community and economy since 1887. Southwest Michigan is a perfect home for companies like Perrigo that do innovative, forward-thinking, 21st century work. Any move that jeopardizes these good-paying, local jobs raises serious red flags. I’ve visited Perrigo more than a dozen times in recent years and have always been impressed with the quality of their employees, and the work they do in our community. My hope is that Perrigo stakeholders will carefully consider this proposed deal and remember that Southwest Michigan is where Perrigo grew into one of the Best and Brightest companies to work for and home for thousands of dedicated employees.” NOTE: Upton recently toured Perrigo Company to tout his 21ST Century Cures initiative and also visited in 2014 to celebrate President Obama signing his Drug Quality and Security Act into law.
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after Congressman Paul Ryan met with members of the Tuesday Group, a caucus of the House Republican Conference. Upton is a founding member and the group focuses on crafting constructive solutions for challenges facing the American people. “Paul Ryan has the ability to lead and help bring our Conference together. Paul’s strong background is uniting all the factions within our party so that we can get back to working on a positive, governing agenda on behalf of folks in Southwest Michigan and across the country. I support Paul Ryan for Speaker and hope my colleagues will do the same. It’s time to put this behind us and get back to work.”
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after President Obama vetoed the 2016 Fiscal Year National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). “President Obama’s veto of the bipartisan NDAA threatens our men and women in uniform, their families, and our military strength,” said Upton. “It’s unacceptable that our Commander-in-Chief would choose partisan politics over doing the right thing for our military – especially given the world is in such turmoil. The NDAA was a bipartisan process from the start, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on a bipartisan, bicameral basis to override the president’s veto. Our troops deserve nothing less.” The Fiscal Year 2016 NDAA matches President Obama’s budget request for an increase of $38 billion above federal budget caps for military spending. It was advanced by the House and Senate by bipartisan votes of 270-156 and 70-27 respectively.
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his House colleagues in advancing legislation, H.R. 702 – To Adapt to Changing Crude Oil Market Conditions, that would lift the 40-year-old ban on crude oil exports. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, lifting this ban would generate $1.4 billion in profits to the federal government during the next 10 years from oil and gas leases. Additionally, data from the Government Accountability Office, projects that ending the ban would lower gasoline prices by 1.5 to 13 cents per gallon. It is also expected to support up to 964,000 additional U.S. jobs. H.R. 702 was passed by the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 261-159. “Lifting the crude oil export ban is a win for our economy,” said Upton, who chairs the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. “It would lower prices at the pump, create jobs, generate hundreds of millions of dollars in economic benefits, and strengthen our geopolitical influence across the globe. It would also boost royalty payments from federal oil and gas leases, reducing the budget deficit by over a billion dollars. Collectively, all of these gains provide the makings of a success story that would greatly benefit our economy at a time of great uncertainty. After four decades; it’s time to lift the ban and say yes to energy.” BACKGROUND: The ban on crude oil exports was put into place in 1975 in response to the Arab oil embargo. The United States is now one of the leading producers of oil in the world, benefiting American workers and lowering prices at the pump. To read letters of support for H.R. 702, please click here.
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit issued a nationwide stay to block the Environment Protection Agency’s (EPA) enforcement of its final Waters of the United State (WOTUS) rule. “I applaud the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals decision today that, for the moment, protects states from the implementation of the EPA’s final WOTUS rule,” Upton said. “We all want clean water, but this ill-advised government overreach is completely out-of-touch with the reality and the negative impact would reverberate throughout Southwest Michigan and hurt the very backbone of our economy – farming. I’ve listened to farmers and their families in recent weeks all across our six counties and this rule is issue number one for every single one of them. It’s estimated that the rule would affect 1,623,089 acres and 80,971 stream miles in Michigan. The appeals court recognized that WOTUS was flawed and has stopped it. It’s time for the Administration to thoroughly reconsider its plan.” Under the current wording, WOTUS would have vastly expanded the federal government’s authority to regulate small bodies of water, and would have applied to ditches and small, isolated bodies of water, including low-lying farm field or crop areas. In May, Upton and his House colleagues voted to advance H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015 which would protect U.S. waters and stop the EPA’s rule.
10.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today gave the following opening statement at an Energy and Commerce Committee subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing on “Volkswagen’s Emissions Cheating Allegations: Initial Questions.” To watch the video please click here To read Upton’s statement in full, and to learn more about the investigation, please click here.
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined by his colleagues in the House of Representatives, passed the Conference Report to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016. The legislation was advanced by a bipartisan vote of 270-156 and now heads to the U.S. Senate and then the president’s desk. “Voting to support our brave men and women in uniform as well as their families is one of the easiest votes we have to make,” said Upton, who also chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee. “When our military has the tools and resources they need we are all better for it – especially in the current era of unprecedented threats. Our Constitution makes it Congress’ responsibility to ‘provide for the common defense’ and that is exactly what we did today.” The FY2016 NDAA authorizes necessary funds for the Department of Defense so that our military personnel have the tools they need to defend our nation, and the well-deserved benefits to support their families at home. In the current era of unprecedented threats, technological changes, and uncertainty, it is vital that our Armed Forces are properly prepared. Additionally, FY2016 NDAA authorizes the budget authority of the national security programs of the Department of Energy. To learn more about Congressman Upton’s legislative work to benefit our military, their families, and our veterans, please click here.
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined by his colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, advanced key energy legislation to the House floor. H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act was approved by the full committee by a bipartisan vote of 32- 20. Today’s vote marks another important milestone in the multi-year, multi-Congress effort to modernize the nation’s energy laws. “Today’s vote that says ‘yes to energy’ marks an important milestone as we work to update our laws for a new era of energy abundance,” said Upton. “We have prioritized creating jobs and improving our infrastructure to ensure affordable energy continues to flow to folks in Michigan and across the country. America has the resources to become an energy superpower. All we need are the right 21st century laws to fulfill our promise. We will continue working toward building a bipartisan consensus as our goal remains getting something to the president’s desk that will be signed into law. We are on to the floor.” Over the past year, the House Energy and Commerce Committee has conducted a number of legislative hearings, received testimony from a number of governmental witnesses, including the Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz, and heard from dozens of private sector organizations. H.R. 8 is the product of feedback and good-faith negotiations that fortifies America’s energy security by reinvesting in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and by hardening and modernizing energy infrastructure to withstand 21st century threats like cyber, severe weather, and electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attacks. The legislation will also help the United States to benefit by streamlining the approval of liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports and by providing coordination on energy diplomacy issues with our North American neighbors. H.R. 8 also includes energy efficiency provisions. To view letters of support for H.R. 8, please click here.
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement today after House Speaker John Boehner announced he will resign at the end of October. “I respect Speaker Boehner’s decision. In the coming days and weeks we will have critical votes before us – and we have to get the job done for the American people. We are elected to put our country first, and I believe that is exactly what Speaker Boehner did today.”
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the address by Pope Francis to the Joint Meeting of Congress today: “It was a privilege and an honor to hear Pope Francis’ address. He is one who is truly committed to challenging all of us to do good and to lead lives for the betterment of others. The way Pope Francis was able to weave together four different stories about four different Americans – Martin Luther King Jr., Abraham Lincoln, Dorothy Day, and Thomas Merton – who all had different journeys in life but all shared in the common belief of America’s great destiny, was very inspirational. America truly is the land of hope, dreams, and opportunities and it was powerful to be reminded of what we can accomplish when we band together and remember our common destiny.”
09.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after Congressman Dan Benishek announced he will not seek another term. “I spoke with my friend Dr. Dan this morning and told him I was very sorry to see him go. His service to our country, our veterans, and to Northern Michigan has been top-notch in every sense. We recently took a trip together to visit our Michigan defense sites and he was the anchor and a quiet leader. Quick to laugh, steady, and a consummate team player who always kept the best interests of our great state, and our veterans, first and foremost. I will miss him.”
09.15.2015	NILES, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today was honored with the Champion of Children Award by Michigan members of Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, Ready Nation and Shepherding the Next Generation. The event was a thank-you to state and federal lawmakers who helped pass early childhood home visiting program legislation which benefits at-risk children and their families. “We all want to keep kids out of the courtroom,” said Upton, who also chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “There truly is nothing more important than to make sure our kids are safe. We should be investing in our kids and making sure they don’t get in trouble in the first place. Solving these sorts of problems before they get to be big problems is a no-brainer and I’m proud to support it.” To view additional pictures from today’s event please click here. Upton supported the creation and passage of the Maternal, Infant and Early Childhood Home Visiting program (MIECHV) – which was created in 2010 and reauthorized in 2014. The program is designed to help pregnant women and new parents make sure they have the proper training to promote healthy development of their newborns, prevent child abuse and neglect, improve school readiness and family self-sufficiency through services often provided by nurses, social workers, or child development specialists. “These programs pay off dividends,” said Berrien County Sheriff Paul Bailey, who hosted the reception at the Berrien County Courthouse in Niles. “We see it and we tell our legislators.”
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his House colleagues in voting to disapprove the Iran nuclear deal. H.R. 3461 – To Approve the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, signed at Vienna on July 14, 2015, related to the nuclear program of Iran – was voted down by a strong bipartisan vote of 269-162. “It is absolutely critical that we deny Iran the ability to develop nuclear weapons,” said Upton, who also chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “The domino effect it would have on the Middle East would be devastating. The deal the Obama administration struck is simply not sufficient. The deal lifts sanctions prematurely, allows Iran to keep – and in some cases advance – key bomb making technologies, and allows Iran to ‘self inspect’ their most sensitive nuclear facilities. This is unacceptable and I believe we must do better. It is a sad day for America when we sell out to this Iran regime.”
08.31.2015	BRIDGMAN, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined by Senator Shelley Moore Capito, R-West Virginia, who also serves as Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety, today toured the Donald C. Cook Nuclear Power Plant in Bridgman, Michigan. The purpose of the tour was to highlight Cook’s safe nuclear operation and to hold discussions about energy supply reliability. “Affordable, reliable energy benefits our most vulnerable citizens the greatest,” said Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “This is why we need to have all of our energy options on the table. The tour today was informative and it was a pleasure to have the Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety Shelley Moore Capito join us so that we could both learn more about Cook’s operations, its safety record – it was one of the first nuclear facilities that addressed post-Fukushima issues, and how safe nuclear fits into a truly all-of-the-above energy strategy that keeps costs low for Michigan families.” “To grow America’s economy, we must make use of multiple energy sources, including nuclear, coal and natural gas, to generate affordable, reliable electricity. I appreciate Chairman Upton’s invitation to visit Michigan’s Donald C. Cook nuclear power plant. Today’s tour was an opportunity to broaden my understanding of nuclear energy and how its use can be beneficial to American businesses and families,” said Senator Capito. To view additional pictures from the tour, please click here.
08.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, along with Congresswoman Jackie Walorski, R-Jimtown, have sent a letter to the chief executive officer of British Petroleum (BP) demanding answers to questions pertaining to the sudden closing of its refinery in Whiting, Ind., which has caused a sharp spike in gas prices throughout the upper Midwest. “We sent this urgent letter to BP today because consumers have a right to know what is going on with the unscheduled shutdown of the Whiting refinery,” Upton and Walorski stated. In their joint letter to Robert Dudley, Upton and Walorski noted: “Some areas of the Midwest have seen prices rise over $1 per gallon over a 24 hour period, disproportionately affecting the most vulnerable of our constituents and resulting in large unpredicted costs in getting goods to market across the region. Additionally, some are worried that speculators may force additional increases due to lack of information. “Needless to say, this incident poses a serious hardship for our districts.” The BP Whiting Refinery in northern Indian shut down the largest of its three crude distillation units on Saturday. Upton, who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Walorski, whose Congressional district includes the refinery, demand answers from Dudley for their constituents by August 21 along with daily updates. They want to know how long the outage is expected to last and how BP will prevent price gouging, among other issues. To read a copy of the letter, please click here.
08.05.2015	PORTAGE, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today presented World War II veteran and Portage resident Robert Max Goldacker with nine service medals. Goldacker, 91, received the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, the Presidential Citation, the European-Africa-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal, the World War II Victory Medal, the Combat Infantryman Badge, the Honorable Service Lapel Button, the Sharpshooter Badge, and the Marksman Badge. Goldacker was part of the 5th Ranger Battalion that landed on the beaches of Normandy, France, during the D-Day invasion on June 6, 1944. The 5th Rangers Battalion was charged with scaling the cliffs at Pointe Du Hoc, a harrowing 100-foot climb, to knock out heavily fortified German casements and gun pits. Goldacker, only 19 at the time, was shot in the back and survived a night in an open battlefield – scared he would die and be buried on foreign soil. Goldacker survived and the Rangers at Pointe du Hoc took the cliff. “It was a true honor to meet Mr. Goldacker, his wife Carolyn, and members of the Goldacker family,” said Upton. “On D-Day, Mr. Goldacker and his fellow Rangers represented the absolute best of the American spirit: Unmatched skills and bravery of the highest order. As memories of the Greatest Generation fade, it is more important than ever to recognize their service to our country when the world needed it most.” To view pictures from the medal presentation, please click here.
07.30.2015	ST. JOSEPH, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement on the passing of former state legislator Harry Gast. “Harry Gast exemplified what it means to be a public servant. He never forgot those he represented in a straightforward way and may have been blunt, but you could never question his motives as he put our corner of the state on the map as the Chair of the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee. The two of us were partners on many joint ventures, including the construction of U.S. 31. Without his leadership, we would still be driving the old route. He was as honest and hardworking as the day is long and I will miss his sage counsel and true friendship.”
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Speaker of the House John Boehner released a video today featuring Congressman Fred Upton's, R-St. Joseph, 21st Century Cures Act. The video highlights the bipartisan work done in order to give patients across the country hope. To view the video, please click HERE. To learn more about the 21st Century Cures initiative please click HERE.
07.23.2015	Bipartisan Legislation Would also Benefit Local Outdoor Recreation Economy WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today signed on to co-sponsor H.R. 799, the North Country Scenic Trail Route Adjustment Act. This bipartisan legislation would change the official route of the North Country National Scenic Trail to create a more sustainable trail corridor through improved volunteer and funding efforts. The trail route begins in Vermont and ends in North Dakota, traveling through both the lower and upper peninsulas in Michigan. Specifically, the trail route passes through the Fort Custer recreational site. The Trail also partners with the W.K. Kellogg Biological Station, located outside Gull Lake. “Michigan’s beauty is unmatched and making improvements to this historic trail route will allow more folks the opportunity to see it firsthand,” said Upton. “The North Country Scenic Trail not only provides breathtaking views for a wide variety of outdoors enthusiasts, but also bolsters our local outdoor recreation economy. I’m looking forward to working with my colleagues and stakeholders in a bipartisan manner to make sure future generations can experience the adventure of utilizing this fantastic trail.” The North Country Scenic Trail Route The North Country National Scenic Trail is the longest of the National Scenic Trails, traversing seven states and more than 100 counties and is enjoyed by hikers, families, skiers, bikers, hunters, and nature lovers. The legislation has been referred to the House Natural Resources Committee.
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after the House of Representatives advanced legislation by a bipartisan 312-119 vote to authorize and finance our highway and transit programs through the end of the year. “This extension brings us one step closer to a final agreement. It provides the House more time to negotiate a multi-year agreement to finance our highway and transit programs. Without it, current projects would be stopped in their tracks. I will continue to work in a bipartisan basis with my colleagues as we aim to provide the stability that our highway program needs and towards improving our roads, bridges, and other critical infrastructure.”
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, convened a hearing today to examine pipeline safety. The hearing, titled “Oversight of Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 and Related Issues” focused on pipeline safety issues raised by recent pipeline failures, and the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s (PHMSA) implementation of the bipartisan 2011 pipeline safety legislation that was signed into law by President Obama. The law, spearheaded by Upton and former Michigan Rep. John Dingell, contains numerous provisions designed to reduce the likelihood of similar pipeline spills and minimize the impact of those that do occur. However, PHMSA has failed to implement more than one-third of the law’s requirements despite mandatory deadlines. Click here to watch Upton’s opening statement Click here to watch Upton question PHMSA Interim Executive Director Stacy Cummings The hearing was particularly timely in light of the Michigan Departments of Attorney General and Environmental Quality issuing a report on Michigan Petroleum Pipeline Task Force. “I look forward to reading the Michigan Petroleum Pipeline Task Force Report and I commend Michigan officials for their commitment to pipeline safety,” said Upton, who also chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee. “We have a responsibility to ensure that our energy is transported safely and efficiently. Our committee has a long, bipartisan history of pipeline safety issues, including the passage of the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011, which was a bipartisan piece of legislation I worked on closely with my friend John Dingell. It is much, much better to be in a position to prevent incidents before they happen rather than to respond after they occur and that is our focus.” The committee had recently sent two bipartisan letters related to pipeline safety. The first was sent to PHMSA and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requesting an update on the status of key pipeline safety reforms. The second was sent to Plains Pipeline requesting documents on the company’s maintenance and integrity operations.
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act today was approved by the United States House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 344-77. “Our 21st Century Cures effort seeks to capture just a sliver of hope and optimism that countless patients exude despite sometimes insurmountable odds. They need the next generation of treatments and cures, but they do not have until the next generation to wait,” said Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, who also chairs the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. “While the history of health innovation is remarkable – we’ve now got our sights set on the future, on 21st Century Cures. This bill is about making sure our laws, regulations, and resources keep pace with scientific advances. In this, the greatest country in the world, Americans deserve a system second to none. We can and must do better. The time for 21st Century Cures is now.” The 21st Century Cures Act grew out of more than a year of listening to experts within the healthcare ecosystem. Patients, doctors, innovators, job creators, educators, and researchers were all consulted. Dozens of bipartisan roundtables were held across the country, including one in Kalamazoo at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine. Feedback was solicited from White Papers and social media, and committee hearings were held to get comments on the initiative. In May, the House Energy and Commerce Committee approved the 21st Century Cures Act by a unanimous 51-0 vote. For more information on the 21st Century Cures initiative, including letters of support from more than 700 groups, please click here.
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today met with Kalamazoo Central High School student Grady Hively to congratulate him in person on wining the Congressional Art Competition for Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District – which is represented by Upton. Hively, 16, and his mother Nancy, were in Washington, D.C., for a reception featuring the winning artists from congressional districts around the country. “It was great to finally meet Grady and his mom who traveled all the way from Kalamazoo to see Grady’s great work displayed in the U.S. Capitol,” said Upton. “It was a special moment for sure. Fostering emerging and young artists as they develop their talent is one of the best parts of the job and after chatting with him today I expect big things from Grady in the future.” Hively’s pastel of the Castle, which was built in 1895 by one of the city’s prominent business owners, Frank Henderson, was done as part of the classes he’s been taking at the Kirk Newman Art School at the Kalamazoo Institute of Art. “We are delighted to be the inspiration for this wonderful work of the art,” said Francois Moyet, owner of The Henderson Castle Inn. “It’s a fantastic opportunity for the public to see it and the work beautifully showcases a prime site in Kalamazoo. We are very proud of it. The artist did amazing work. I myself will be flying to D.C. in the next two months to see the art hanging in the U.S. Capitol. It’s very exciting.” To learn more about the Congressional Art Competition please click here. To view additional pictures please click here.
06.20.2015	BENTON HARBOR, Mich. – As part of this year’s “Lest We Forget” Tribute to Vietnam Veterans, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, presented service medals to the sisters of 2nd Lt. Jay Barklow Martine, who was killed in action July 18, 1967, in Vietnam. “It is an absolute honor to be able to present these medals to the sisters of Jay Martine, who so courageously fought for our country and lost his life in the effort,” Upton said. “We must always take time to remember our brave veterans and service members – and especially their families – who have given so much in support of our great nation and to say ‘Thank you.’” Muriel Martine and Marci Rendell, both of Coloma, were presented several medals earned by their brother, a Buchanan resident who was the first from the area to die while serving in Vietnam. He received full military honors at his burial. The medals presented to Martine’s sisters are replacements of the originals, which were lost in a house fire several years ago. Upton staff assisted in obtaining the medals. Martine earned the Bronze Star for bravery, acts of merit or meritorious service; the Purple Heart, awarded to those who are killed or wounded while serving; the National Defense Service Medal for honorable active military service; and the Vietnam Service Medal, which is awarded to those who served in Vietnam. Also presented was the Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon, an Expert Badge with Pistol Bar and Sharpshooter Badge with Rifle Bar. Martine, who was born in Niles and raised Buchanan, graduated from Galien High School in 1962. He entered the Army in 1966. After graduating from Officer Candidate School, he was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in 1966. An Infantry Unit Commander, he died of a gunshot wound while serving in the Quang Ngai Province of South Vietnam.
06.20.2015	After learning of the death of Elson Floyd, former president of Western Michigan University, who recently took leave from his position at Washington State Univerisity, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement: “Elson Floyd was a dear friend whose great work at Western Michigan University propelled him into the ranks of top college presidents in the United States, following in the footsteps of Diether Haenicke and blazing the trail for John Dunn. I learned lifelong leadership lessons from Elson. He helped the community in the areas of economic development and was wonderful at Washington State University. I know my colleague Cathy McMorris Rodgers shares my observations. He was a true friend.”
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and members of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce today advanced H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act, by a unanimous 51-0 bipartisan vote. “This historic day marks a big bipartisan step forward on our path to cures,” said Upton, who chairs the committee. “We have all said too many early good-byes to people we love and treasure. Every single person has a common goal: we want more time with those we love. In this, the greatest country in the world, Americans deserve a system second to none. We can and must do better. The time for 21st Century Cures is now.” The 21st Century Cures Act is the product of more than a year of listening to patients, care givers, innovators, regulators, and researchers. During the conversation, the committee received countless ideas in response to committee white papers, eight Health Subcommittee hearings, and more than a dozen roundtable discussions hosted by both the committee and members in their districts across the country – including one at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine. In January, the committee launched the legislative phase by circulating a discussion document, which included a number of ideas proposed by both Republicans, Democrats, and throughout the year-long listening session. The Subcommittee on Health held a hearing on the discussion document on April 30, 2015. Subcommittee members then met on May 14, 2015, to consider the discussion draft before voting to forward the bill to the full committee. Learn more about H.R. 6 here. Learn more about the 21st Century Cures initiative here.
05.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined the majority of his House colleagues in advancing six bipartisan bills aimed at helping U.S. veterans and their families as they make the transition from military to civilian life. “Voting to support our nation’s brave veterans is the easiest vote we make,” said Upton, who also chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Our veterans and their families sacrifice so much for us and they deserve a 21st Century Department of Veterans Affairs that is accountable to them. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to ensure that our veterans and their families receive the quality support, care, and benefits they have earned.” The package of bills approved by the House listed below: H.R. 474, the Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Programs Reauthorization Act of 2015, provides a full five-year extension of the Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration program, which provides services including grant money for job training programs, to help our veterans reintegrate into the working world. H.R. 1038, the Ensuring VA Employee Accountability Act, requires the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to maintain all written reprimands and admonishments that a VA employee receives while working in the Department as long as they are an employee of the Department. H.R. 1313, the Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business Relief Act, would allow a surviving spouse of a veteran who has a service-connected disability rating of less than 100 percent, and who does not die due to their service-connected disability, to retain the veteran’s small business status through the VA’s “Vets First” program for up to three years following the veteran’s death. H.R. 1382, the BRAVE Act, allows the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to give preference to government contractors to award contracts for goods and services for businesses that employ veterans on a full-time basis. The bill would also require the VA to exclude contractors who willingly and knowingly misrepresent their employment of veterans. H.R. 91, the Veteran’s I.D. Card Act, Directs the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to issue veteran identification cards for all veterans honorably discharged. Current regulations only allow veteran’s cards to be issued to those veterans who have completed time-in-service requirements or have received a medical discharge. H.R. 91 ensures veterans who serve the minimum obligated time receive an I.D. card. H.R. 1816, the Vulnerable Veterans Housing Reform Act of 2015, allows veterans to receive benefits for low-income housing assistance while maintaining their eligibility for all housing calculations.
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today lauded the speedy approval of two critical pieces of bipartisan legislation, the 21st Century Cures Act and H.R. 1321, the Microbead-Free Waters Act of 2015. Both pieces of legislation advanced through the House Committee on Energy and Commerce’s Subcommittee on Health by voice votes. The 21st Century Cures Act is the product of more than a year of listening to interested stakeholders to gain feedback on what can be done to speed up the discovery, development, and delivery of life saving cures and devices. This feedback loop included a bipartisan roundtable at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker, M.D. School of Medicine and in meetings with stakeholders and patients during a trip to Southwest Michigan with Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, in March. In January, the Energy and Commerce Committee launched the legislative phase of the 21st Century Cures initiative and in April, the Subcommittee on Health held a hearing on a draft discussion document. “The history of health innovation is remarkable,” said Upton, who serves as chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. “But the future is where I’ve set my sights. I’ve got my eye on 21st Century Cures. And I want to ensure that the laws, regulations, and resources governing the quest for better and faster treatments keep pace with scientific advances. There is no cause more worthy, no challenge more urgent. We need 21st Century Cures, and we need them now.” Click here to watch Upton’s opening statement The Microbead-Free Waters Act of 2015 would prohibit the sale or distribution of personal care products containing synthetic plastic microbeads by January 1, 2018. This legislation would establish a national standard so manufacturers would not have to comply with the patchwork of state laws and protect U.S. waters including the Great Lakes. “It’s hard to believe something smaller than a pinhead could cause such big problems, but that’s what is happening with synthetic plastic microbeads in cosmetic products,” said Upton. “This issue is so important to Southwest Michigan and the entire Great Lakes Region. This is an important bill in protecting the beauty and cleanliness of the Great Lakes and I look forward to moving it through the legislative process.” To learn more about these two pieces of legislation, please click here. To view pictures from today’s subcommittee markup, please click here.
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today met with Van Buren County Deputy Brian Matthews to congratulate him for being honored today at the National Police Officer Memorial for winning “Officer of the Month” in June of 2014 by the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund. Matthews and other officers were returning on a flight from a week of training in Arizona on March 2, 2014, when an officer from Muskegon suffered a stroke. Thanks to Matthews’s quick thinking and action, he was able to assist and stabilize the injured officer. The flight made an emergency landing, and the injured officer was quickly ushered to a local hospital where he was treated and released. Without Matthews providing assistance and steady calm, the injured officer may have suffered grave consequences. “Thanks to Deputy Matthews’s quick thinking and steady action, he ultimately saved a life,” said Upton, who also serves as chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “National Police Week is a time to reflect and thank those who protect and serve every single day. I offer a heartfelt thank you to Deputy Matthews, his family, and all of our brave police officers for their service and dedication to our communities and country.” Van Buren County Sherriff Dale Gribler praised Matthews as well, “We are extremely proud of Brian. He is what all officers should aspire to be – an officer who is committed to his family and who is committed to providing quality law enforcement services to the public he protects.” National Police Week draws attendees to our nation’s Capitol each year from departments throughout the United states as well as agencies from around the world to pay tribute to those who have died in the line of duty.
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined the majority of his House colleagues in advancing H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015. H.R. 1732, which advanced through the House by a bipartisan vote of 261-155, aims to protect U.S. waters and stop the Environmental Protection Agency’s flawed “Waters of the U.S. Rule” proposal, commonly known as “WOTUS” Rule. “Tonight we came together and advanced common sense legislation that aims to fix a flawed proposed rule,” said Upton, who was an original co-sponsor of the legislation. “The proposed Waters of the U.S. Rule would have dire consequences for our Southwest Michigan economy and threaten jobs. Our bipartisan legislation aims to make life easier for Southwest Michigan farmers and private landowners, give local stakeholders a voice in the process, and provide fairness. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate in order to move this critical legislation to the president’s desk.” In March 2014, the Obama administration announced the proposed “WOTUS” Rule, which would allow the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to fully regulate bodies of water on private lands. This controversial proposal would bring waters on private property, typically off-limits to federal regulation, under strict jurisdiction and permitting requirements. The rule was developed without first consulting with local and state authorities or examining the potential impact on Southwest Michigan citizens, farmers, and other stakeholders. H.R. 1732 ensures that local and state stakeholders have a renewed voice in this critical rulemaking process. It gives the EPA 30 days to withdraw the current flawed rule and charges the agency to develop a new proposed rule while performing real outreach and consultation with local stakeholders and those who would be most affected by the proposed rule. For more information, including a list of groups supporting H.R. 1732, please click here.
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health held the first legislative hearing on H.R. 1321, the Microbead-Free Waters Act of 2015. The bipartisan legislation, authored by Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, D-New Jersey, and cosponsored by committee chairman Fred Upton, would require the Food and Drug Administration to prohibit the sale or distribution of personal care products containing microbeads by January 1, 2018. The legislation would also establish a national standard to protect the environment and ensure that manufacturers do not face a patchwork of State laws. “Microbeads are those tiny little scrubbers in your soap, cleansers, and even toothpaste. On their own, they are nearly invisible, smaller than a pinhead. But once they’ve been flushed down the drain is when the problems begin,” said Upton during an opening statement. “Because they are so small, they escape water filtration systems and end up in our bodies of water, including the Great Lakes. I will not stand for any activity that puts our beloved Great Lakes in jeopardy. Simply put, microbeads are causing mega-problems.” “Plastic microbeads are commonly-used abrasive agents in personal care products, such as facial cleansers and toothpaste,” said Dan Wyant, Director of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality. “Microbeads were found in Great Lakes surface waters during a study in 2012 and 2013. Just as we don’t tolerate plastics littering our roadsides and filling our landfills, we should not allow plastics – of any size – to taint our beautiful Great Lakes. Michiganders love the Great Lakes, and they expect strong leadership on issues related to the lakes.”
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health today held the first legislative hearing on Upton’s bold, bipartisan 21st Century Cures legislation. “My friends Brooke and Brielle, from Mattawan, Michigan, served as an inspiration for 21st Century Cures,” said Upton during an opening statement. “They’re battling SMA (Spinal Muscular Atrophy) and they are two of the brightest stars I know. Their motto is: We can and we will….Yes, we still have work to do, but it is important to recognize the incredible progress of the past year and remain focused on our common goal of helping patients. We have a chance to do something big, and this is our time. And it is Brooke and Brielle’s time.” To watch a clip of Upton’s opening statement please click here. The subcommittee heard expert testimony from Dr. Kathy Hudson, Deputy Director for Science, Outreach and Policy at the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Janet Woodcock, Director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and Dr. Jeff Shuren, Director of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Last week Upton and Congresswoman Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, traveled to Southwest Michigan to meet with community leaders, medical students at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker, M.D. School of Medicine, innovators, and local patient groups. To learn more about 21st Century Cures please click here.
04.27.2015	While traveling throughout Southwest Michigan last week meeting with patient groups, medical students, and community leaders as part of their nonpartisan #CuresInTheMitten trip, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and Congresswoman Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, joined Rick Albin for WOOD TV 8’s “To the Point” to discuss their bold 21st Century Cures initiative. In 2014, Upton and DeGette launched the bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative to speed up the discovery, development, and delivery of life-saving drugs and devices. The House Energy and Commerce Committee will hold the first legislative hearing on 21st Century Cures this Thursday. For more information on the trip, please click here. To The Point: 21st Century Cures April 26, 2015 A Michigan Republican and Colorado Democrat are working together to pass federal legislation that would change the way the FDA deals with new procedures and treatments. The legislation, dubbed 21st Century Cures, aims to speed up FDA approval of new drugs, medical devices and treatments. U.S. Rep Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, said in order to come up with solutions, we need to “listen.” To watch the full interview, please click here.
04.24.2015	KALAMAZOO, Mich – Finely honed details on an iconic structure near downtown Kalamazoo – Henderson Castle – captured in the unforgiving medium of chalk pastel helped propel the choice of this year’s Congressional Art Competition winner for Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District, represented by Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph. Grady Hively, 16, of Kalamazoo, drew the Castle as part of the classes he’s been taking at the Kalamazoo Institute of Art’s Kirk Newman Art School. He said he wanted to draw the Castle because he knew previous owners of the historic 1895 structure and has been in, through, and around it many times. He also wanted to draw it because of how interested he is in architecture. He asked permission before taking a photograph of the Queen Anne style house, now operating as an inn, day spa and restaurant, which became the model the final piece. On the way to the winning artwork was an early attempt to paint an image of the Castle using acrylic paints but it “didn’t turn out,” Grady said. And while he has worked in pencil a great deal, “for the content and the detail, I knew I had to use pastels.” Grady, a sophomore at Kalamazoo Central High School, where he also takes art classes, says he hopes to continue to further his art studies in college – perhaps through architecture or graphic design. Locally, more than 130 entries competed for the Congressional Art Competition. “I am proud to have Grady’s piece represent the Sixth District in the U.S. Capitol, where it will hang alongside winners from Congressional Art Competitions throughout the country,” Upton said. “We have amazing talent here in Southwest Michigan. Congratulations to Grady and to everyone who took part in the KIA 2015 High School Area Show.” Grady and a guest will be invited to a reception in Washington, D.C. for the winning artists. Southwest Airlines is providing two free tickets. The Congressional Art Competition was included in the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts 2015 High School Area Show, now in its 35th year, open to those high school students who live in the Sixth Congressional District – Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph and Van Buren Counties, as well as most of Allegan County. The KIA show awards thousands of dollars in awards and scholarships to various art schools and institutions for various programs. The winners were: Juror’s Awards: Ashton Holdridge, Watervliet High School; Mariam Husain, Kalamazoo Central High School; Montana Major, Vicksburg High School; Maggie Mianecke, Portage Northern High School; Lilah Rosier, Water Street Glassworks; Gillian Yerington, St. Joseph High School; and Delaney Beals, Portage Northern High School Juror’s Honorable Mention: Ashlee Bachinski, Three Rivers High School; Elise Blakely, Gull Lake High School; Eric J. Bluschke, St. Joseph High School; Elizabeth Feldbruegge, Lakeshore High School; Grady Hively, KIA Kirk Newman Art Schooll; Megan Hayward, Portage Central High School; Taylor Joachim, Lakeshore High School; Megan Kopp, Watervliet High School ; Marielle Lentz, Portage Central High School; Ava Peeters, Kalamazoo Central High School; Grant Pettit, Plainwell High School; Samantha Searles, KRESA EFA/Parchment High School; Abigail Ziemkowski, Portage Northern High School SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS -- Representative from each school selected their respective scholarship winners. KIA Kirk Newman Art School Summer Class Scholarships: Delaney Beals, Portage Northern High School; Lily Bowman, Lawton High School; Chris Cole, Portage Central High School; Brooks Eisenbise, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School; Mariam Husain, Kalamazoo Central High School; Fred Ouding, Comstock High School/Kirk Newman Art School; Brooklyn Parsons, St. Joseph High School. Cleveland Institute of Art Scholarship Award: Cecelia Roehm, Vicksburg High School. CIA’s Pre-College Summer Program Scholarship: Samantha Searles, KRESA EFA/Parchment High School. Kendall College of Art & Design of Ferris State University Scholarship Awards: Delaney Beals, Portage Northern High School; Eric J. Bluschke, St. Joseph High School; Taylor Hendrix, Lakeshore High School; Ashton Holdridge, Watervliet High School; Brooklyn Parsons, St. Joseph High School; Grant Pettit, Plainwell High School. Summer Portfolio Camp Scholarship Awards: Brooks Eisenbise, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School; Joseph Mead, St. Joseph High School; Deedle Melchor, Water Street Glassworks, Benton Harbor; Maureen Reed, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School; Abigail Russell, Gull Lake Homeschool Partnership. Western Michigan University Gwen Frostic School of Art Scholarship Awards: Brooks Eisenbise, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School; Taylor Hendrix, Lakeshore High School; Emma Lewis, Vicksburg High School; Maureen Reed, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School; Cecelia Roehm, Vicksburg High School; Abigail Russell, Gull Lake Homeschool Partnership; Rose Safranek, Water Street Glassworks, Benton Harbor; Samantha Searles, KRESA EFA/Parchment High School; Gillian Yerington, St. Joseph High School.
04.21.2015	KALAMAZOO, MICHIGAN – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and Congresswoman Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, spent Monday and Tuesday traveling throughout Southwest Michigan to meet with patient groups, innovators, medical students, and community leaders as part of their nonpartisan #CuresInTheMitten trip. “I was excited to have Diana visit Southwest Michigan. We both learned a great deal and had fun getting the word out about our work to get faster and better cures and treatments to patients,” said Upton. “This is truly a nonpartisan initiative that affects every single family in Southwest Michigan and across the country. To be able to share our message and get meaningful feedback from a wide variety of stakeholders was incredibly valuable. 21st Century Cures is all about providing hope to patients and families. We will continue to fight on their behalf.” “Ever since Fred and I launched 21st Century Cures, I have been struck by the broad support to get something done, and that was certainly true in our conversations across Southwest Michigan,” added DeGette. “Illness and disease don’t care about political parties, and so our work to improve the discovery, development, and delivery of treatments and cures should transcend politics as well. I enjoyed hearing from Michigan patients, medical providers, and members of the general public, and I appreciate Fred introducing me to his constituents. I look forward to returning the favor in Colorado soon.” Upton and DeGette met with Michigan-based patient advocacy groups at the West Michigan Cancer Center in Kalamazoo, students and faculty at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine, toured diabetes research firm Metabolic Solutions’ lab in Kalamazoo and spoke with life science partners of the Southwest Michigan Innovation Center, and met with Stryker Corporation’s leadership team. The pair announced the trip with a Facebook video, and previewed it with a joint op-ed in the Detroit Free Press which you can read here. To view pictures from the trip, please visit here.
04.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today alongside Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, announced a bipartisan trip to Southwest Michigan to promote their bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative. In a video first shared on Facebook [Link], Upton said: “I’m excited to say that Diana and I are going to be together next week in Southwest Michigan. We are truly embarking on – it’s not actually bipartisan legislation – its non-partisan legislation. There is no family that won’t be impacted by this.” “I’m excited to come, now that it’s stopped snowing,” added DeGette. “I’m excited to come and talk to your constituents about how 21st Century Cures is going to really speed up the approval process for drugs and devices to help every family in America.” Click HERE to Watch Upton and DeGette plan to meet with Michigan-based patient advocacy groups at the West Michigan Cancer Center in Kalamazoo, students and faculty at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine, tour Metabolic Solutions lab in Kalamazoo and speak with life science partners of the Southwest Michigan Innovation Center, and meet with Stryker Corporation’s leadership team. Interested parties are also encouraged to tag along online using the hashtag #CuresInTheMitten to follow the trip on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. Background: In 2014, Upton and DeGette launched the bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative to speed up the discovery, development, and delivery of life-saving drugs and devices. After four Washington, D.C. roundtables, eight hearings, and 15 local roundtables, including one at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine, earlier this year the House Energy and Commerce Committee marked the beginning of the legislative phase of the initiative. For more information, and a complete history of 21st Century Cures, please click here.
04.17.2015	St. JOSEPH, MI – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement today following news of the death of former State Representative and Berrien County Commissioner Neal Nitz. “Neal was an able public servant who represented his constituents well both in Lansing and in Berrien County,” said Upton. “His strong values were the very foundation that earned the respect of his colleagues, friends, and family.”
04.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Michigan Congressional Delegation today united in their support for the 110th Attack Wing of the Michigan Air National Guard in Battle Creek, Michigan, to be named the location of a Cyber Operations Squadron. In a letter to top officials in the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), bipartisan, bicameral delegation members emphasized how Battle Creek Air National Guard Base’s (BCANBGB) unique location and capabilities would best serve and enable the defense department’s cyber security operations to protect the nation and lead this major initiative in military cyber security. The 110th Attack Wing is already home to a pilot program that has trained technicians and has much of the infrastructure required to take on this new mission. Delegation members also note in their letter that Michigan’s current workforce and universities provide a strong foundation for continuous training of current and future workers. The state already sports a network of highly skilled information technology professionals, qualified DoD personnel, as well as public and private cyber security specialists. In addition, Michigan is home to 22 colleges and universities that offer degrees in cyber security, including five colleges that have earned designations as National Security Agency Centers of Excellence. The letter, led by Senator Debbie Stabenow and Rep. Fred Upton, is the first product of a bipartisan, bicameral agenda discussed at a February Michigan delegation meeting. The letter was also signed by the entire Michigan delegation: Senator Gary Peters, Rep. Justin Amash, Rep. Dan Benishek, Rep. Mike Bishop, Rep. John Conyers, Rep. Bill Huizenga, Rep. Dan Kildee, Rep. John Moolenaar, Rep. Sander Levin, Rep. Candice Miller, Rep. Debbie Dingell, Rep. Brenda Lawrence, Rep. David Trott, and Rep. Tim Walberg. Governor Rick Snyder has also expressed his strong support of the 110th Attack Wing in their pursuit to host a Cyber Operations Squadron. The delegation writes in part: Cybersecurity threats are one of the greatest national security challenges we face today. Our future as a nation depends upon a reliable cyberspace for infrastructure, commerce, communications, and government at every level. To counter those determined to cause harm, it is crucial that America has a Cyber Mission Force that can strengthen and rigorously protect this critical infrastructure. As the Department of Defense makes determinations on the final Cyber Operations Squadrons (COS) for Air National Guard Cyber Force Laydown, we would like to express our strong support for the 110th Attack Wing of the Michigan Air National Guard in Battle Creek, MI to host a Cyber Squadron. The Battle Creek Air National Guard Base’s (BCANGB) unique location and capabilities would enable USCYBERCOM to fulfill its mission at a significant cost savings compared to bases without the same existing infrastructure. In addition, Michigan’s current workforce and universities provide a strong foundation for current and future recruiting efforts. Michigan has a network of highly skilled IT professionals, qualified DoD personal, as well as public and private cyber security specialists. We also have 22 colleges and universities that offer degrees in cyber security, including 5 colleges that have earned NSA Centers of Excellence designations. With emerging threats and growing concerns on the cyber battlefield, we recognize the difficult choices you must make in securing a Cyber Force structure that meets our nation’s security needs. Locating a Cyber Operations Squadron at BCANGB will utilize existing infrastructure to keep costs low, and provide significant capabilities in meeting America’s cyber security needs. The letter was sent to Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter, Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James, General Mark A. Welsh, Chief of Staff, U.S. Air Force, General Frank J. Grass, Chief of Staff for the National Guard Bureau, and Lieutenant General Stanley E. Clarke III, Director Air National Guard. To read the full letter, please click here.
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined by the majority of his House colleagues advanced H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act. This bipartisan legislation will permanently fix the broken Medicare payment formula. It will also strengthen the program in the long term, and extend the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which covers nearly 45,000 children in Michigan (MIChild). Upton helped broker a deal with bipartisan leaders of the House Energy and Commerce and House Ways and Means Committees on the legislation. The House advanced H.R. 2 by a bipartisan vote of 392-37. “This is a long time coming. Most of us came to Congress to fight for our nation’s kids, seniors, and their families. Today’s vote is a defining moment for this Congress and for Medicare. Our bipartisan agreement puts us on the road to real reforms to strengthen Medicare for our seniors and puts the broken Sustainable Growth Rate in the rear view mirror forever,” commented Upton. “We strengthened Medicare and extended MIChild, and our important community health centers. This deal is good for Michigan’s seniors; it’s good for Michigan’s children.” Upton reached an agreement with Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, D-New Jersey, Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan, R-Wisconsin, and fellow Michigan Congressman Sander Levin, a Democrat who is Ways and Means Ranking Member. Bipartisan House leaders were also instrumental, including Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-California. President Obama on Wednesday morning signaled that he would sign the bill, stating during a speech at the White House, “I’ve got my pen ready to sign a good bipartisan bill.” Upton, who chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has long pursued a permanent solution to the SGR budget gimmick that has threatened seniors’ access to health care through the years and led to 17 temporary patches during nearly two decades at the cost of $170 billion. The bipartisan agreement is an important opportunity to end these repeated, costly distractions and begin the important work of truly strengthening Medicare for today’s seniors and for generations to come. H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, builds upon the foundation established by Upton’s committee in the last Congress, which passed similar legislation out of committee by a vote of 51 to 0. To watch video of Upton’s floor statement, please click here. Learn more about Upton’s efforts to replace the SGR and strengthen Medicare here.
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and his colleagues at the House Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee today held a hearing focused on the growing problems of prescription drug and heroin abuse. The hearing, titled “Examining the Growing Problems of Prescription Drug and Heroin Abuse: State and Local Perspectives” was the second in a series that will examine this crucial issue. “Sadly, communities all across the country have been affected by prescription drug and heroin abuse, including southwest Michigan,” commented Upton, who is Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Devastatingly, heroin overdoses are on the rise due to a combination of high demand and purity that can make this drug more lethal. There were 13 suspected overdoses in Kalamazoo in the first quarter of 2013, compared to 9 in the first quarter of 2012. This unwelcome trend is unfortunately all too familiar as opiate-related overdoses have recently become the No. 1 cause of death in Michigan and nationwide, surpassing motor vehicle crashes, suicide, firearms, and homicide. “There are many heart-breaking stories across the country. We are losing about 20,000 people a year from abuse of prescription pain killers or heroin…This is a great opportunity for this committee, working on a bipartisan basis, to help improve the federal government’s response to this epidemic.” Fitz, the Cass County prosecutor and president of the Prosecuting Attorneys Association of Michigan, noted, “The problem of drug abuse will always be with us. Heroin and prescription drugs are the latest concern, following the epidemics of marijuana, powder cocaine, crack cocaine, methamphetamine and others. The key is to minimize its use and impact.” In addition to Fitz, the Subcommittee heard testimony from a wide range of experts including Fred Wells Brason II, the executive director of Project Lazarus; Sarah T. Melton, associate professor of Pharmacy Practice at Gatton College of Pharmacy at East Tennessee State University; Dr. Stefan R Maxwell, associate professor of pediatrics at West Virginia University; Rachelle Gardner, chief operating officer at the Hope Academy in Indianapolis, Indiana; Corporal Michael Griffin, narcotics unit supervisor with the Tulsa Police Department; and Caleb Banta-Green, a senior research scientist at the University of Washington Alcohol and Drug Abuse Institute.
03.23.2015	Today Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined more than 360 of his House colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter to the White House stating their concerns about the administration’s ongoing negotiation with Iranian government officials concerning a potential nuclear agreement. The letter was spearheaded by the top two members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Chairman Rep. Ed Royce, R-California, and Ranking Member Rep. Eliot Engel, D-New York. In the letter, House members express concern about resolving the nuclear crisis with Iran. They also note their desire to work with the administration to find a diplomatic solution preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. In addition, they also reiterate that any legislation to lift sanctions on Iran must come from Congress – not the White House alone. The letter also highlight’s Iran’s destabilizing role in the Middle East and its horrendous human rights record. “We have to work together – House, Senate, and the administration – regardless of political party to show a united front as we negotiate with Iran,” stated Upton. The bipartisan House members write: “As the deadline for a comprehensive nuclear agreement with Iran nears, we write to you to underscore the grave and urgent issues that have arisen in these negotiations. While we hope the Administration is able to achieve a lasting and meaningful agreement, we understand that there are several difficult issues that remain unresolved…. The United States has had a longstanding interest in preventing Iran from achieving a nuclear weapons capability. Over the last twenty years, Congress has passed numerous pieces of legislation imposing sanctions on Iran to prevent that outcome, ultimately forcing Iran into negotiations. Should an agreement with Iran be reached, permanent sanctions relief from congressionally-mandated sanctions would require new legislation. In reviewing such an agreement, Congress must be convinced that its terms foreclose any pathway to a bomb, and only then will Congress be able to consider permanent sanctions relief. Resolving the nuclear crisis with Iran remains of grave importance to our nation’s security. As the Administration continues to negotiate with Iran, we are prepared to evaluate any agreement to determine its long-term impact on the United States and our allies. We remain hopeful that a diplomatic solution preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon may be reached, and we want to work with you to assure such a result.” To read the full letter, please click here.
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, was honored last week by Research!America’s Advocacy Awards Program for his commitment to furthering the discovery, development, and delivery of life saving medical advances through the breakthrough bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative. Joining him in receiving the award was his partner in the 21st Century Cures initiative, Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colorado. “Our leadership support for medical progress has been long, extending from the doubling of the National Institutes of Health budget, to the 21st Century Cures initiative today, a bipartisan effort to accelerate the pace of new cures and ensure the United States remains the world leader in health innovation,” said Upton, who also chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The annual Research!America Advocacy Awards Program was established in 1996 by the Board of Directors to honor outstanding advocates for medical, health, and scientific research. In addition to Upton and DeGette, Research!America also honored ABC’s “Good Morning America” anchor Robin Roberts; Michael Milken, founder of the Milken Institute and FasterCures; Kenneth Olden, director of the National Center for Environmental Assessment for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; Dr. Steven E. Hyman, president of the Society for Neuroscience; and David Van Andel, chairman and chief executive officer of the Van Andel Institute in Grand Rapids, along with George Vande Woud, its founding scientific director. Last year Upton and DeGette launched the bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative to speed up the discovery, development, and delivery of life-saving drugs and devices. Earlier this year, the House Energy and Commerce Committee marked the beginning of the legislative phase of the initiative by releasing a discussion document. Learn more about the 21st Century Cures initiative here.
03.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced the appointment of Ellen Marie Miota to the United States Air Force Academy. Miota is a student at Grace Christian in Watervliet where she stars as a multi-sport varsity athlete on the volleyball, cross-country, basketball, track and soccer teams. Additionally, Miota is Vice President of the student council, a member of the National Honors Association and the 4-H and volunteers as a piano instructor at the Boys and Girls Club of Benton Harbor. “I am pleased to announce the appointment of Ellen to the Air Force Academy. One look at Ellen’s accomplishments thus far tells you everything you need to know about this extraordinary young woman,” commented Upton. “I spoke with her by phone over the weekend, she is definitely a young leader on the rise. I know she will continue to make Southwest Michigan proud as she begins her education at the Air Force Academy. We are all looking forward to see what she does next. I encourage any local students looking to follow in Ellen’s footsteps to apply to the U.S. service academies and to contact my office for nomination information.” Upton nominates students to military services academies from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in school and extracurricular activities and are interview by members of his Academy Advisory Board, which is made up of community leaders. The individual academies make the final decision on military appointments. Upton nominated Miota and 16 other Southwest Michigan students to the United States service academies last December. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s Kalamazoo District Office for further information at (269) 385-0039 or by visiting his website here.
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined his colleague Rep. Frank Pallone, D-New Jersey, to introduce the Microbead-Free Waters Act of 2015. This legislation would prohibit the sale or distribution of personal care products that contain synthetic plastic microbeads, effective January 1, 2018. Synthetic plastic microbeads are small bits of plastic that are used in personal care products like face wash, soap, and toothpaste. They can slip through water treatment systems after they are washed down the drain. As a result, these microbeads often end up in local streams, rivers, and large bodies of water such as the Great Lakes. “This common sense, bipartisan legislation is a win-win for consumers and our Great Lakes ecosystem,” said Upton, who chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “As someone who grew up on Lake Michigan and represents a large chunk of Michigan coastline, I understand firsthand how important it is to maintain the beauty and integrity of our Great Lakes. I will not stand for any actions that put our beloved Great Lakes in jeopardy. I look forward to working with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to reduce this harmful pollutant from entering our waterways, our fish, and ultimately us.” “These tiny plastic particles that are polluting our environment are found in products specifically designed to be washed down shower drains,” said Pallone, who serves as Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “And many people buying these products are unaware of their damaging effects on the environment. If we know that these products will eventually reach our waterways, we must make sure that they don’t contain synthetic plastic that does not biodegrade and will ultimately pollute our waterways. We have a responsibility to put a stop to this unnecessary plastic pollution. By phasing out the use of plastic microbeads and transitioning to non-synthetic alternatives, we can protect U.S. waters before it’s too late.” Scientists have found evidence of microbeads in numerous bodies of water in the United States, including increasingly in the Great Lakes. In addition to contributing to the buildup of plastic pollution in waterways, microbeads can often be mistaken by fish and other organisms as food. If consumed, the chemicals found in synthetic plastic microbeads can then be passed on to other wildlife and humans.
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined the majority of his House colleagues in voting to approve H.R. 749, the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act. This legislation will reform Amtrak to increase transparency and accountability, leverage resources and encourages private sector participation and innovations, streamline environmental reviews and accelerates project delivery, target investments where there is the greatest potential for success, and empower states like Michigan to have a greater role in managing routes. “Railroads are an essential part of America and how we transport everything from food to people,” said Upton. “The Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act will improve our nation’s passenger rail systems, strengthen our infrastructure, and create more transparency and accountability within Amtrak. This bill cuts waste and will provide folks around the country more cost effective passenger rail service. I was proud vote for this bipartisan legislation that will modernize our passenger rails from coast to coast.”
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, signed on to legislation sponsored by Rep. Candice Miller, R-Harrison Township, and U.S. Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Lansing, which would control the spread of Asian Carp. The Defending Our Great Lakes Act would give federal agencies authority to take immediate actions to stop the spread of invasive species like Asian Carp. The legislation will also require agencies to work with regional stakeholders to institute measures to stop the spread of invasive species like Asian Carp between the Great Lakes and Mississippi River basins. “We must take aggressive action to protect our Great Lakes from invasive species like Asian Carp,” commented Upton. “This bipartisan, bicameral legislation is vitally important for the health and beauty of our Great Lakes ecosystem as well as protecting thousands of jobs in the recreational fishing and boating industries. I look forward to working with my Michigan colleagues on both sides of the aisle and in both chambers of Congress to get this done.” Note: There are 12 additional members of the Michigan Congressional Delegation who are original cosponsors of the bill, including Senator Gary Peters and Representatives Dan Benishek (MI-01), Mike Bishop (MI-08), John Conyers (MI-13), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Bill Huizenga (MI-02), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Sandy Levin (MI-09), John Moolenaar (MI-04), Dave Trott (MI-11), and Tim Walberg (MI-07).
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined by the majority of his House colleagues voted to advance a bill that would expand and strengthen tax-free 529 college savings plans. The legislation, H.R. 529, To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve 529 plans, would expand, strengthen, and modernize 529 college savings accounts. Specifically, H.R. 529 would allow payments from 529 plans to be used to buy important educational tools like computers as well as assistive technology devices, to eliminate a burdensome tax requirement, and to allow taxpayers, on a tax-free basis, to re-deposit refunds from educational institutions. “H.R. 529 is a commonsense, bipartisan bill that will help middle-class families struggling with student-loan debt burdens,” said Upton. “These 529 college savings plans are an essential tool for families across Michigan as they plan and save for college or post-secondary training. I am proud to support H.R. 529 and hope the Senate acts swiftly to send this bill to the president’s desk.” According to estimates from the Joint Committee on Taxation, implementing H.R. 529 would reduce revenues by $51 million during the 2015-2025 period. Background: Created in 1996, 529 college savings plans are an education savings plan operated by a state or educational institution designed to help families set aside funds for future college or post-secondary costs. An estimated 12 million parents use tax-free 529 college savings plans.
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, tonight joined the majority of his House colleagues in passing H.R. 212, the Drinking Water Protection Act. This bipartisan legislation, which advanced through Upton’s committee earlier this month, would amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to develop and submit a strategic plan to Congress within 90 days of enactment for assessing and managing the risk associated with harmful algal toxins in drinking water. “As someone who represents a large chunk of Michigan coastline, I have long been a champion of all issues related to our Great Lakes and protecting those who live around them,” commented Upton, who also chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Great Lakes drinking water is essential for millions of folks, and this thoughtful bill will give the EPA the tools they need to prevent future occurrences like the one that happened last summer in Ohio. I urge the Senate to take this bipartisan bill up promptly, and for the president to sign it into law.” H.R. 212, the Drinking Water Protection Act was drafted by Congressman Bob Latta, R-Ohio, in response to last year’s water emergency in Lake Erie which threatened drinking water for nearly 500,000 residents of Toledo, Ohio.
02.23.2015	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced two new staff hires for his St. Joseph-Benton Harbor and Kalamazoo district offices. “I am very pleased to welcome two great additions to our team,” said Upton. “Two of my most important responsibilities as a Member of Congress are to directly assist folks from Southwest Michigan in dealing with the federal government and making sure their voices are heard. Chad and Corey are both from Southwest Michigan, have an extensive knowledge of the area, and understand how to best serve their communities. I know that they are excited to get to work on behalf of folks in Southwest Michigan.” Chad Dillon – Constituent Service Representative Dillon, a Portage native, began his duties as Constituent Services Representative in the Kalamazoo district office in January. Dillon will spearhead Upton’s military veteran outreach having served in the Michigan Army National Guard from 2004-2010 and in Operation Iraqi Freedom from 2008-2009. A 2014 graduate from Western Michigan University where he studied political science, Dillon also interned in Upton’s Kalamazoo district office while attending college. Corey Hansen – Constituent Service Representative Hansen, a South Haven native, began his duties as Constituent Services Representative in the St. Joseph-Benton Harbor district office in February. Hansen graduated in 2014 from Western Michigan University where he studied Business Management and Accountancy. Hansen also interned in Upton’s St. Joseph-Benton Harbor office while attending college. Upton operates full-time constituent service offices in both St. Joseph-Benton Harbor and Kalamazoo. These offices provide vital assistance to all Southwest Michigan residents in dealing with the federal government. Whether working with the Social Security Administration, presenting one of our nation’s brave veterans with overdue service medals, or a myriad of other services, Upton’s district offices have a well-earned reputation for cutting through bureaucratic red tape and getting the job done for folks in Southwest Michigan.
02.19.2015	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced the appointment of Hunter Simino to the United States Air Force Academy. Simono, a varsity athlete and Vice President of the Student Ambassadors at Portage Central High School, was nominated to the academy in December and was personally congratulated upon his appointment by Upton today. “I am thrilled to announce the appointment of Hunter to the United States Air Force Academy,” said Upton. “He is a remarkable young man and the city of Portage ought to be proud. To nominate and now announce Hunter’s appointment is an honor for me as well. I was able to speak with him today and offer my congratulations - he is excited for the opportunity to serve his country. I encourage any local students looking to follow in Hunter’s footsteps to apply to the U.S. service academies and to contact my office for nomination information.” Upton nominates students to military services academies from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in school and extracurricular activities and are interviewed by members of his Academy Advisory Board, which is made up of community leaders. The individual academies make the final decision on military appointments. Upton nominated Simino and 16 other Southwest Michigan students to the United States services academies last December. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s Kalamazoo District Office for further information at (269) 385-0039 or by visiting his website here.
02.18.2015	A longtime advocate for families like the Kennedy’s of Mattawan, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, helped lead the effort in 2013 to boost research of rare pediatric diseases such as Spinal Muscular Atrophy, which affects the two young daughters of Sarah and Eric Kennedy. Recently, Upton unveiled the 21st Century Cures initiative with his colleague U.S. Representative Diana DeGette, D-Colorado. The initiative aims to get cures and treatments to patients more quickly. Upton, who chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has pledged to work with Republicans and Democrats for ideas and will continue an aggressive schedule to introduce 21st Century Cures legislation and ultimately send a bill to President Obama by the end of the year. To learn more about this groundbreaking initiative and how it’s helping families in Southwest Michigan please click here. ABC NEWS How Two Young Sisters Cope With a Rare Muscle Wasting Disease February 17, 2015 Around the time of Brielle Kennedy's first birthday, her parents, Sarah and Eric, noticed that her physical development was a little slow. "Our pediatrician told us not to worry at first but when she still wasn't walking at 16 months, he sent us to a specialist,” Sarah Kennedy recalled. The toddler was diagnosed with type II spinal muscular atrophy, a rare condition that is part of a group of childhood diseases that cause the muscles of young children to waste away. SMA, as the disease is called in shorthand, occurs when there is a missing "survival neuron gene" and the body cannot produce the necessary proteins to build up muscle. Their daughter would never walk, doctors told the Kennedys. She would have trouble holding up her head and neck and would likely need extensive medical treatment, including physical therapy and occupational therapy for the rest of her life, doctors told the couple. The diagnosis came soon after Kennedy gave birth to her second daughter, Brooke, and just five days before her husband, a physician’s assistant with the Army, was about to be deployed to Afghanistan for a year. Shortly after he left, Brooke was also diagnosed with SMA. “It was a really rough time,” Kennedy said. “But we tried to remain hopeful and learn everything we could about the disease.” SMA affects one in every 6,000 to 10,000 children, the Kennedys soon found out. There is no known cure or treatment. Doctors explained that when both parents are carriers for SMA there is a 25 percent chance their child will have the disease. The Kennedys said they are hopeful about several other new trials in the works, including one that is a possible SMA cure. As they hope and pray for a medical breakthrough, the Kennedys said that Brooke and Brielle lead full, happy lives with lots of friends and a love of Disney princesses and animals. Last year, the family worked with their congressman, Rep. Fred Upton, and the National Organization of Rare Diseases to help pass a new law that funds medical research for rare and devastating childhood diseases. They say that focusing on the positive and finding support is key. Read the full story here.
02.12.2015	KALAMAZOO, Mich. – High school student artists living in Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District are invited by Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, to take part in the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. The winner will have his or her piece hang in the Capitol for a year along with the winners of the award from other Congressional districts. The winner and a guest will also be invited to attend a reception in Washington, D.C., along with two free tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend the June gathering. The Congressional Art Competition for the Sixth District will be held in conjunction with the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts 2015 High School Area Show, which opens with a reception and awards ceremony at 5:30 p.m. on April 24. The CAC winner will also be announced at that time. The exhibition will run through May 24. Art work to be considered for the CAC and the Area Show are to be submitted to the KIA between March 25 and 27 to the KIA, 314 S. Park St. in Kalamazoo. “I am happy to encourage young artists to take part in the Congressional Art Competition and the KIA High School Area Show,” said Upton, whose district includes most of Allegan County and all of Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph and Van Buren counties. “Art is the outcome of the creative process, which fuels new developments in so many areas. We should encourage it in our young people. “Plus, thousands of people will be able to see the talent Michigan’s Sixth District has to offer as the winner’s art is displayed in the Capitol.” Autumn Roth, then a senior at St. Joseph High School in Berrien County, won last year’s Sixth District CAC competition with her digital photograph titled Heard? The idea for the image came from pictures Roth had seen of women covered head to foot in burkas. The title, she said, was inspired by the saying that children should be seen but not heard. Her piece can be viewed here. Students interested in taking part in the CAC are urged to note that some requirements differ from those of the KIA show - only framed two-dimensional artwork no larger than 28 inches long, 28 inches wide and 4 inches deep and less than 15 pounds can be hung in the Capitol. Those pieces that conform to CAC requirements may also be considered for the KIA competition. Rules and guidelines for the CAC can be found here. Educator, artist and curator Greg Waskowsky, who recently retired from the KIA, will jury the exhibition and select the work of up to 100 artists whose work is to be shown as well as select winners of cash prizes and scholarships. Entry forms for the CAC can be found on Upton’s web site here or at his office at 157 S. Kalamazoo Mall, Suite 180, in Kalamazoo. Information and entry forms for the Area Show can be found on the KIA web site here. Awards to be given at the Area Show include cash prizes and scholarships for summer programs at the Cleveland Institute of Art and the KIA Kirk Newman Art School as well as four-year scholarships for undergraduate study at Western Michigan University, Kendall College of Art and Design and the Cleveland Institute of Art.
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement after the House Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by Upton, voted to advance H.R. 212, the Drinking Water Protection Act. The bipartisan bill would amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to develop and submit a strategic plan to Congress within 90 days of enactment for assessing and managing the risk associated with harmful algal toxins in drinking water. “As someone who has long-championed Great Lakes issues and protecting those who live around them, I’m proud to support this commonsense legislation,” said Upton. “The Drinking Water Protection Act provides the EPA tools to prevent future water crises like the one that happened in Toledo, Ohio, last year where nearly a half-million residents could not access safe, clean drinking water. We cannot have a situation like that again, and I am very pleased to see this important legislation now one step closer to becoming law to ensure our Great Lakes drinking water is safe.” H.R. 212, the Drinking Water Protection Act, was drafted in response to last year’s water emergency in Lake Erie. Harmful algal blooms threatened drinking water. The committee had previously sent letters and was briefed by the EPA.
02.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, chaired by Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released framework for a comprehensive energy package. The committee is releasing a series of discussion drafts that aim to build an “Architecture of Abundance” by addressing four key policy areas: modernizing infrastructure, a 21st century energy workforce, energy diplomacy, and efficiency and accountability. The committee plans to advance the discussion drafts through its legislative process in the coming months with the goal of bringing a solutions-focused energy package to the House floor later this year. “Our energy realities have changed dramatically – we’ve gone from bust to boom practically overnight. However, today’s energy policies are lagging far behind,” said Upton. “We need policies that meet today’s needs and are focused on the future. That starts with building the Architecture of Abundance. By modernizing our infrastructure, empowering a 21st Century energy workforce, strengthening our energy diplomacy, and promoting more efficiency and accountability, we can lay the foundation for a forward-looking national energy strategy that truly embraces our energy abundance. Most importantly, saying yes to energy will create good-paying jobs, keep costs down for Michigan families and businesses, and boost our energy security.” To view the committee’s Architecture of Abundance framework, click here.
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released the following statement after the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy held a legislative hearing and voted to advance H.R. 212, the Drinking Water Protection Act. The bipartisan bill would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to develop and submit a strategic plan to Congress within 90 days of enactment for assessing and managing the risk associated with harmful algal toxins in drinking water. “As someone who represents a big chunk of Michigan coastline, I have long been a champion of all issues related to our Great Lakes and protecting those who live around them,” said Upton, who also chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee. “This bill will give the EPA the tools they need to prevent future occurrences like the one that happened in Ohio.” H.R. 212, the Drinking Water Protection Act, was drafted in response to last year’s water emergency in Lake Erie. Harmful algal blooms threatened drinking water and resulted in a temporary tap water ban for 500,000 people in the Toledo, Ohio area. The committee had previously sent letters and was briefed by the EPA. The legislation passed the subcommittee by voice vote, and now heads to the full committee for consideration.
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joins the global health community in marking World Cancer Day and issued the following statement: “As we observe World Cancer Day we honor all cancer survivors, fighters, and those who have sadly succumbed to this terrible disease. I remain ever-committed to working to improve the lives of cancer patients and their families. My bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative aims to provide patients everywhere with hope by facilitating better, faster cures. We know that cancer is not beyond us but the path to faster cures is clearer than ever and by working together we will get this done.” Last year Congressman Upton, who also chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee, launched the bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative with Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, to speed up the discovery, development, and delivery of life-saving drugs and devices. Last week, the committee marked the beginning of the legislative phase of the initiative by releasing a discussion document, which can be found here. Learn more about World Cancer Day here.
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R- St. Joseph, made the following opening statement this morning at The House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing on “Examining the U.S. Public Health Response to Seasonal Influenza.” Click to watch via Facebook (Remarks as Prepared for Delivery) Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for convening this hearing on the U.S. public health response to seasonal influenza. We remain in the midst of a particularly harsh flu season and preliminary estimates show that this year’s vaccine is only 23 percent effective in preventing folks from going to the doctor for treatment, even lower for high-risk groups. Usually, the flu vaccine is about 50-60 percent effective. I, like many folks back in Michigan and across the country, believe we can do better in addressing this major public health threat. Every year between 5 percent and 20 percent of Americans get the flu virus. In a severe flu season like this one, there could be up to 50,000 deaths, over 200,000 hospitalizations, and more than $10 billion spent on direct medical costs. The flu is, and should be, a top priority for U.S. public health. We understand that the reason this year’s vaccine has lower effectiveness is because it is no longer a good match for the flu strain that has become dominant. The flu virus strain changed significantly during the six months after the strain selection decision for the U.S. vaccine was made, and we have been told it was too late to change the vaccine for the U.S. As a result of the evidence of change in the virus, the World Health Organization in September 2014 recommended changing the flu vaccine for the Southern hemisphere to use in their upcoming flu season that starts in April. The CDC continues to recommend vaccination in the United States, even with the lower effectiveness, and that high-risk patients be treated as soon as possible with anti-viral drugs. While it is difficult to know when or how seasonal flu viruses are likely to change, leading to a need to change the vaccine for that year, we have made significant improvements in the past 10 years and it seems like we should be able to do better. There were known weaknesses in the surveillance system. In 2011, the World Health Organization conference found that a key test used to check for flu virus changes was not very effective in detecting evidence of changes in the deadliest flu strain. Our understanding is that this same test is still used. What tests were used as an alternative to the inadequate test? And when we learned that there was a shift in the virus, what other options were available to respond to the mismatch in viruses? Was there a way to deploy a rescue vaccine targeting just the changed virus? Was there a way to improve the effectiveness of this season's vaccine by adding substances that boost the immune response? Improving our response to a severe flu season with a mismatched vaccine could mean saving thousands of lives. My concerns and questions do not diminish my admiration and support for the dedication of the U.S. public health agencies working on flu preparedness. It is because of their talent and hard work that I believe improvement is really possible. We can work together to make that happen. I am also eager to learn about the latest research and innovation, and how we can better support and leverage these advances to improve our response to seasonal influenza. I welcome all our witnesses, and look forward to their testimony. ###
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A longtime advocate for Lake Michigan harbors, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement on the news that President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Proposal will include $45 million for Michigan civil works projects at harbors and rivers, including $1.59 million for the St. Joseph Harbor and an additional $800,000 in emergency dredging for Fiscal Year 2015. “I’m pleased to see the president’s budget focuses on important infrastructure projects right here in Michigan such as dredging which benefits both commercial shipping and recreational boating,” said Upton. “Dredging has a huge impact on our Southwest Michigan economy. From good-paying local jobs and commercial shipping, to the positive impact on our recreation industry – our harbors must remain properly maintained. My office has long enjoyed a strong relationship with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and I thank them for their tireless work as well. Ensuring our Great Lakes harbors stay open for business must remain a national priority.” NOTE: In May of 2014 Upton supported Great Lakes jobs and harbor maintenance by voting to designated the entire Great Lakes Navigation System (GLNS) as a single, unified system for budget purposes. Rather than forcing Great Lakes harbors to compete for funding like a coastal port, the provision recognized the economic benefits of their interdependence and helps ensure consistent funding. The GLNS language, including in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) of 2014, was approved by the House of Representatives by a nearly unanimous vote of 412-4.
02.02.2015	Getting more and better cures and treatments to patients more quickly is a goal shared by all – including President Obama who unveiled his Precision Medicine initiative last week. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, called Precision Medicine a “natural fit” in the year-long discussion about innovative medicine spurred by the bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative. The 21st Century Cures discussion sought to determine what steps need to be taken to take full advantage of the advances America has made in science and technology and how we can use these resources to keep America as the innovation capital of the world. Upton, who chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has pledged to continue to work with Republicans and Democrats on ideas for 21st Century Cures and will continue an aggressive schedule to introduce 21st Century Cures legislation and ultimately send a bill to President Obama’s desk by the end of the year. To learn more about this groundbreaking initiative please click here. Herald Palladium January 30, 2015 It’s in the genes WASHINGTON - Holding out the promise of major medical breakthroughs, President Barack Obama on Friday called on Congress to approve spending in medical research that tailors treatment to an individual's genes. Obama wants $215 million for what he's calling a precision medicine initiative that moves away from one-size-fits-all treatments. The ambitious goal: Scientists will assemble databases of about a million volunteers to study their genetics - and other factors such as their environments and the microbes that live in their bodies - to learn how to individualize care. "That's the promise of precision medicine - delivering the right treatment at the right time, every time, to the right person," Obama said in announcing the proposal Friday. Among those pleased by the president's call is U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph. "The Precision Medicine Initiative is a natural fit in the discussion about how to accelerate and improve the discovery, development, and delivery of new cures and treatments," Upton said in a statement Friday. "This is something we've been talking about for the past year through 21st Century Cures and there are plenty of common threads between the president's proposals and (a) discussion document released earlier this week." "It is our goal to get a bill to the president's desk by the end of this year to help get more and better cures to patients more quickly." Last May, Upton hosted a medical experts roundtable at Western Michigan University to discuss high-tech cures. Click here to read the full article online.
01.29.2015	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced the appointment of Tyler Kenneth Zortman of Augusta to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Upton nominated Zortman to the prestigious academy and personally congratulated him on his appointment. “To be able to nominate and now announce the appointment of this young man to West Point is a great honor,” said Upton. “I spoke with Tyler earlier today and he is very excited with the appointment and for the opportunity to serve his country – just like his father, grandfather, and great-grandfather all did before him. We owe a debt of gratitude to all of our veterans and those willing to sacrifice on behalf of our country and Tyler is following not only in his families footsteps, but of all the cadets at West Point who went on to become some of the greatest leaders and public figures in American history.” Upton nominates students to military service academies from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in school and are interviewed by members of his Academy Advisory Board, which is made up of community leaders. The individual academies make the final decision on military appointments. Upton nominated Zortman and 16 other Southwest Michigan students to the United States services academies last December. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s Kalamazoo District Office for further information at (269) 385-0039 or by visiting upton.house.gov.
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A new phase is beginning on the path to better, faster cures. The House Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, yesterday released an initial discussion document outlining some specific proposals that have been shared throughout the 21st Century Cures initiative. This discussion document seeks to continue the important dialogue that patients, innovators, researchers, care givers, and other experts have shared during the past year. This product is the result of the input shared in response to the five white papers, eight hearings, and numerous roundtables – including a bipartisan roundtable at the Western Michigan University Homer J. Stryker M.D. School of Medicine – that have convened during the past year. “Fifteen years into the 21st Century, the time for 21st Century Cures is now,” said Upton. “Throughout this initiative we have done things differently. We have been bipartisan, we spent a year listening and asking questions, and we have been fully transparent at every step. The ideas outlined in the discussion document represent an important milestone – a critical first step in a legislative process. It’s an exciting time – as medical innovations and the jobs that accompany them are flourishing right here in Southwest Michigan and we should be doing all we can to keep them here. #Cures2015 is now underway. Together, we will get this done.” The House Energy and Commerce Committee is seeking feedback on the proposals outlined in the discussion document, with continued urgency on behalf of patients who are struggling with diseases today. The inclusion of a policy in this draft should not been seen as endorsement. Congressman Upton looks forward to continuing to work with both Republicans and Democrats, as the committee continues to pursue an aggressive schedule to introduce 21st Century Cures legislation and ultimately send a bill to President Obama’s desk by the end of the year. View the first release of legislative ideas here. View a section-by-section of the discussion document here. View a one-pager highlighting the legislative ideas here.
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined by the majority of his House colleagues, voted to approve twelve bipartisan bills that work to combat human trafficking. These bills will strengthen our current laws to combat the growing problem of human trafficking in the United States, provide much needed services to victims of human trafficking, and ensure that the innocent victims of human trafficking are not subject to prosecution. “For many, human trafficking is seen as something that happens in countries far away. The reality, however, hits much closer to home,” said Upton. “Some 300,000 young Americans are in danger of becoming victims of sex trafficking. The average age for a girl to enter the commercial sex trade is 12 to 14 years old and for boys, it is 11 to 13. Human trafficking is despicable and is akin to modern day slavery. I was proud to take action against this terrible violation of human dignity.” The bills approved by the House include H.R. 514, the Human Trafficking Prioritization Act; H.R. 515, the International Megan’s Law to Prevent Demand for Child Sex Trafficking; H.R. 357, the Human Trafficking Prevention Act; H.R. 468, the Enhancing Services for Runaway and Homeless Victims for Youth Trafficking Act of 2015; H.R. 469, the Strengthening Child Welfare Response to Trafficking Act of 2015; H.R. 246, to improve the response to victims of child sex trafficking; H.R. 398, the Trafficking Awareness Training for Health Care Act of 2015; H.R. 460, the Human Trafficking Detection Act of 2015; H.R. 350, the Human Trafficking Prevention, Intervention, and Recovery Act of 2015; H.R. 159, the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act of 2015; H.R. 181, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015; and H.R. 285, the Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation Act of 2015.
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined a majority of his House colleagues today in passing legislation that would allow new pipeline projects to come online safely and efficiently to help meet the nation’s need for affordable and reliable energy. The legislation – H.R. 161, the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act – would expedite the federal review process for applications for natural gas pipeline certificates by imposing statutory deadlines on agencies involved in the review process. The legislation was approved by the House by a bipartisan vote of 253 to 169. “The United States is the world’s leader in the production of natural gas and we want to stay in the No. 1 spot by allowing safe and timely pipeline projects to go into production,” said Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “American ingenuity and technology can bring this wealth of energy to folks living in Southwest Michigan and across the nation in a safe and affordable manner.” To view the bill online click here, and to view letters of support for the bill click here. ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement ahead of President Obama’s State of the Union address. For the past year, Upton, along with U.S. Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, have led discussions on how Congress can help the discovery, development, and delivery cycle for new cures and treatments in the United States. Through several white papers, hearings, and discussions, including a roundtable in October at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine, the 21st Century Cures initiative has engaged stakeholders and leaders from across Michigan and the country. During this past weekend, Upton called various health leaders, including Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell, Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Margaret Hamburg, and National Institutes of Health Director Dr. Francis Collins, to express his thanks for their support and leadership on 21st Century Cures. Upton also requested President Obama to consider 21st Century Cures as an area of bipartisan agreement to pursue in 2015. “21st Century Cures is about hope,” Upton said. “We seek to provide hope to patients and families all across the country who are desperate for new cures and treatments. We also seek to provide hope to those who see Washington as a partisan city incapable of getting things done. “As we look toward this new year and new Congress, I am encouraged by the bipartisan achievements we have already made throughout the 21st Century Cures initiative and am grateful for the support of top administration officials. I hope President Obama will consider joining our effort to boost jobs, ensuring that Southwest Michigan and the United States remains the epicenter of innovation, and help bridge the gap between the incredible advances made in science and how we in Washington actually regulate those therapies. There is no issue more important to families all across the country.” For a complete history of the 21st Century Cures initiative please visit here.
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement in response to the president’s State of the Union address. “We have to come together and tackle the issues that are most important to the American people. We have a great opportunity before us this Congress to make a positive and lasting difference. More life-saving cures, more affordable energy, and more innovation and jobs are all part of our vision for a better America and a better Michigan. It’s time to get to work, Republicans and Democrats together, and get the job done.”
01.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joins the nation in celebrating the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and issued the following statement: “Today Michiganders and folks across the country are pausing to observe and reflect on the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. We know that challenges remain, but we also know that Dr. King’s dream is still very much alive today and continues to inspire us. As America’s new Congress gets underway and we begin the task of governing, now more than ever it’s important to remember Dr. King’s words: ‘the time is always right to do what is right.’” Upton spoke today at the Martin Luther King Jr. Community Breakfast Celebration at Lake Michigan College and at the Ecumenical Senior Center MLK program in Kalamazoo. Upton also spoke Sunday at the 29th annual Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. celebration sponsored by the Northside Ministerial Alliance at Galilee Baptist Church in Kalamazoo. To view photos from these events, click here and here.
01.12.2015	Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined a bipartisan majority of his House colleagues last Friday in passing legislation to advance construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. The legislation would end the administration’s delays blocking construction of the landmark jobs and energy project, which has been tied up in regulatory review for more than six years. The legislation would eliminate the need for presidential approval, make it clear the extensive environmental analysis already done on the project is sufficient, and eliminate the threat of future litigation challenges. “It took less time to build the Hoover Dam than it’s taken the president to answer yes or no on the Keystone XL pipeline project.” said Upton, who also chairs the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Debate about the pipeline has gone on for more than six years when the Hoover Dam only took five years to build. Today we have bipartisan support on it, the Nebraska Supreme Court cleared the legal questions, and we have the strongest pipeline safety requirements in place of all time. The president has no excuses left to delay this project. It’s time to build once and for all.” The Nebraska Supreme Court on Friday approved the course of the Keystone pipeline through the state. Previously, the president said action on the pipeline should not begin until after the ruling. The House on Friday voted 266 to 153 to pass the bill, H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act, just hours after the court ruling became public. In 2011, Upton, along with recently retired Congressman John D. Dingell, D-Dearborn, co-sponsored the "Pipeline Infrastructure and Community Protection Act of 2011,” which made vital improvements in pipeline safety requirements. It came about following the 2010 rupture of an Enbridge pipeline just east of Upton’s district that spilled 20,000 barrels of oil into a tributary of the Kalamazoo River. Upton worked aggressively with local, state and federal officials to mitigate the spill’s impact on public health, property and the environment.
01.08.2015	The 30-hour rule has made it more costly for small businesses to hire and harder for Michigan families to make ends meet share: f t Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined a bipartisan majority of his House colleagues today in passing legislation that seeks to protect the nation’s most-vulnerable workers by restoring the federal definition of “full-time” work to 40 hours per week. The legislation – H.R. 30, the Save American Workers (SAW) Act of 2015 – would repeal a provision of the health care law that changes the definition of “full-time” employment to 30 hours per week. The provision relates to the law’s “employer mandate,” which requires many employers to provide approved coverage to full-time employees or face a significant fine. As a result, employers are incentivized to reduce part-time employee hours to fewer than 30 hours to avoid penalty under the law. H.R. 30 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 252 to 172 and now awaits consideration in the U.S. Senate. “The 30-hour rule has made it more costly for small businesses to hire and harder for Michigan families to make ends meet,” said Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “The 30-rule hurts millions of our most vulnerable by cutting hours for part-time workers and reducing their take-home pay. The first rule of health care is to do no harm – this commonsense, bipartisan legislation helps restore that promise.” On July 2, 2013, the Obama administration first delayed the employer mandate for one year until January 1, 2015. The administration again delayed the employer mandate on February 10, 2014. This time, the mandate for employers with 50-99 employees was delayed until January 1, 2016. However, for those employers with more than 100 employees, at least 70 percent of the employees must be covered in 2015, and 95 percent must be covered in 2016.
12.15.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, announced today that Gabrielle Perrin, of Vicksburg, Mich., has been accepted to attend the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md. Upton recommended Gabrielle for selection to the prestigious service academy last week and has personally congratulated her on the appointment. Gabrielle is a senior at Vicksburg High School and also attends the Kalamazoo Area Math and Science Center. “It is my great pleasure to announce Gabrielle’s appointment to the Naval Academy. This is the earliest appointment received by one of our local students in recent memory,” Upton said. “I spoke to Gabrielle last week and she was very excited with the appointment and opportunity to serve her country. It takes years of putting in the hard work to come this far. Gabrielle has excelled in the classroom and on the cross-country course, setting a good example for her peers. I have no doubt that great things are in store for this fine young woman. “I encourage all local students who are interested in military service to contact my office.” Upton nominates students to military service academies from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in school and are interviewed by members of his Academy Advisory Board, which is made up of community leaders. The individual academies make the final decision on military appointments. Upton nominated Gabrielle and 16 other Southwest Michigan students to the United States service academies last week. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office for further information at (269) 982-1986.
12.12.2014	The 17 service academy nominees for the 2015-2016 academic year have excelled academically as well as athletically at their respective schools and have gone through an extensive selection process, according to members of the advisory board for Congress Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, who met with the students. “One of my greatest pleasures as a Member of Congress is being able to nominate such talented students to our nation’s prestigious military service academies,” said Upton. “These young men and women follow in the tradition of some of America’s finest leaders and brightest minds. Each member of this group has undergone a rigorous selection process to get to where they are today. They represent the best that Southwest Michigan has to offer. We are so proud of their accomplishments and desire to serve their country.” The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board, which is comprised of local community leaders. Upon approval by the board, the students’ names were given to Upton, who then officially nominated the students to the military academies. The individual academies will make the final decisions on military appointments. All applicants to military academies must be nominated by a Member of Congress, the President, or the Vice President. “I encourage all area students aspiring to follow in the path of these students to contact my constituent service office in St. Joseph/Benton Harbor to learn more about the academies and nomination process,” said Upton. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office for further information: (269) 982-1986. They may also learn more about the academies by visiting Upton’s website at /constituentservices/serviceacademynominations.htm. Upton has nominated the following students for the class of 2019: United States Military Academy Matthew Robinson, Dorr, Hopkins High School Tyler Zortman, Augusta, Sutton Park School United States Naval Academy Zoe Vlachos, Kalamazoo, Portage Northern HS/Kalamazoo Area Math and Science Center Sawyer Hess, Gobles, Otsego High School Kaylie Butt, Portage, Portage Northern HS/Kalamazoo Area Math and Science Center Gabrielle Perrin, Vicksburg, Vicksburg HS/Kalamazoo Area Math and Science Center Peter Sinkovitz, Richland, Homeschool Noah Pollack, Kalamazoo, Portage Central High School Aaron Sayles, Kalamazoo, Mattawan High School Gyumin Lee, Sturgis, Seoul American High School Gunner Harrison, Stevensville, Marion Military Institute United States Air Force Academy Daniel Christensen, Augusta, Gull Lake High School Benjamin Lenning, Schoolcraft, Schoolcraft HS/Kalamazoo Area Math and Science Center Hunter Simino, Portage, Portage Central High School Nathaniel Wadas, Grand Junction, South Haven High School Ellen Miota, Coloma, Grace Christian School United States Merchant Marine Academy Kelsey Ramirez, Stevensville, Lakeshore High School
12.09.2014	While most breast cancers are found in women who are 50 years of age or older, approximately 11 percent of all new cases of breast cancer in the United States are found in women 45 and younger. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today urging immediate passage of H.R. 5185, legislation to reauthorize the Young Women’s Breast Health Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young (EARLY) of 2009. Introduced by breast cancer survivor Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, D-Fla., and Energy and Commerce Committee member Rep. Renee Ellmers, R-N.C., the bipartisan legislation renews programs related to young women’s breast health and breast cancer, including public education, research activities, and outreach and support for young women diagnosed with breast cancer. “While diagnosis and treatment are difficult for women of any age, young survivors often find it even more challenging,” said Upton in his floor remarks. “The prevention, treatment, and ultimately curing of diseases requires an all-hands-on-deck effort to not only educate, but also innovate on new cures and treatments. Early this year, the Energy and Commerce Committee embarked on the 21st Century Cures initiative with the goal of finding cures and treatments for the thousands without one – including this terrible disease. Sadly, we have all been touched in some manner by cancer or some other disease – whether it’s a personal diagnosis or a courageous fight by a loved one. We have been encouraged and humbled by the support we have seen for this initiative, but also understand that there is a great deal of work ahead. We look forward to meeting that challenge and this bill helps us.” H.R. 5185 passed the House by voice vote and now awaits action in the U.S. Senate. This spring, Upton partnered with Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colo., in launching the bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative, which seeks to accelerate the discovery, development, and delivery of treatments and cures for patients facing life-threatening illnesses like breast cancer. Over the past year, Upton and his committee have gathered input from stakeholders – patients, health professionals, researchers, and manufacturers – to determine how to best improve the cures process. Upton and DeGette intend to unveil discussion draft legislation in January 2015.
12.09.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this evening in recognition of his Michigan colleague Rep. John D. Dingell, D-Dearborn, who will be retiring at the close of the 113th Congress after nearly 60 years of congressional service. Dingell, who was first elected in 1955, is the longest-serving member of the House and has the longest uninterrupted congressional tenure in U.S. history. Last year, Upton named the main Energy and Commerce Committee hearing room in 2123 Rayburn House Office Building in honor of Dingell, who served as its chairman from 1981 to 1994 and again from 2007 to 2008.
12.03.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today grilled Japanese automotive parts manufacturer Takata Corp. concerning its defective airbags, which have been linked to five deaths and resulted in more than 16 million vehicle recalls worldwide. Testifying before the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, Takata was joined by witnesses from Toyota, Honda, BMW, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHSTA). Upton expressed his outrage over the Takata’s inept response and the across-the-board failures of industry and federal regulators to keep American drivers safe. “What should I say to the mom in Michigan who asks me if she and her family are safe behind the wheel?” challenged Upton. “Families across the country expect the safety devices in their vehicles to work; they expect them to provide lifesaving protection they can count on in the event of an accident. They expect problems from earlier models to be reported and fixed, and they expect to be able to get a defect repaired when they find out about it. But sadly, I can’t give those assurances right now.” Immediately before this morning’s hearing, Reuters reported that in 2003 Takata conducted an investigation into an airbag failure in a BMW vehicle, but “concluded the problem was an anomaly.” This revelation follows other recent reports that Takata was testing its product for potential defects in 2004 – more than a year before the company initially claimed it learned of the airbag defects – reportedly at a Takata laboratory in Armada, Mich., and at a test facility in Auburn Hills, Mich. Upton also called into question the failure of Honda to comply with the Transportation Recall Enhancement Accountability and Documentation (TREAD) Act, which requires manufacturers to report the information needed to help NHTSA quickly identify vehicle defects and remove those affected vehicles from the road. Upton authored the bipartisan TREAD Act in 2000 after spearheading an extensive investigation into the fatal Ford-Firestone tire malfunctions. On November 24, 2014, Honda announced that it had failed to report over 1,700 incidents since 2003 that were required to be reported under the TREAD Act’s Early Warning Reporting requirements. This spring, Upton’s committee launched an investigation into General Motors’ and NHTSA’s response to consumer complaints related to stalling, airbag non-deployment, and ignition switch problems linked to 31 crashes and 13 deaths, including two teenagers from Upton’s own district. “Cars are safer today, but not because a company hires lawyers and consultants to avoid reporting safety incidents,” continued Upton today. “Companies need to know that there isn't anything safe about shorting safety. We need more automakers to make safety a priority and institute safety incentives. In the case of GM, they acknowledged their safety failure, their CEO volunteered to testify, and they hired a new safety officer to implement company-wide culture changes. I’d like to see that same level of urgency, that same admission of mistakes, and that same commitment to do better today.” Watch Upton’s opening remarks HERE Watch Upton’s questioning with Takata and Honda HERE Learn more about today’s hearing HERE
12.03.2014	More than 2 million Michigan adults have some form of a disability and that number is projected to increase by the year 2030, reports the Michigan Department of Community Health. We want to help give those families the opportunity to save for their future and long-term expenses, said U.S. Representative Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, a supporter of the original Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Upton joined his House colleagues this evening in passing bipartisan legislation – H.R. 647, the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act of 2014 – to create tax-free savings accounts (ABLE accounts) for individuals with disabilities to cover qualified expenses such as education, housing, and transportation. Upton is a cosponsor of the ABLE Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 404 to 17 and now awaits action in the U.S. Senate. “The ABLE Act empowers millions of Americans with disabilities, enabling them to save for their own future needs without jeopardizing the benefits and services they vitally depend upon,” said Upton. “Through access to tax-free savings accounts, we can help our most vulnerable maintain their health, independence, and quality of life.” The creation of tax-free savings accounts for individuals with disabilities has been a top priority for disability rights advocates in Southwest Michigan. "The ability to save money for housing or home modifications, assistive devices, accessible transportation, education & health care is critical for people with disabilities,” says Joel Cooper, President & CEO at Disability Network Southwest Michigan. “We hear from people with disabilities and family members who would like to put aside some money to pay for these necessities but cannot because they fear that this will jeopardize the health, housing, or community living supports they need to survive. We believe the ABLE Act will provide the security people need to negotiate the expenses that living with a significant disability brings.” Under the ABLE Act, states would have the option to establish an ABLE program, under which eligible individuals with disabilities may establish an ABLE account. To be eligible, individuals must: 1) be severely disabled before turning age 26, based on a marked and severe functional limitation; or 2) receive benefits under the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) or Disability Insurance (DI) programs. ABLE accounts would be modeled after existing 529 investment plans – named after section 529 of the Internal Revenue Code – that are already used by families to save for college expenses. ABLE account balances and withdrawals would not jeopardize an individual’s eligibility for Medicaid and other benefit programs. Other key features of the program include the following: Contributions into an ABLE account can be made by any person; Contributions are not tax deductible; Income earned by the accounts is not taxed; Account withdrawals, including portions attributable to investment earnings generated by the account, for qualified expenses are not taxable; Qualified expenses are those related to the individual’s disability, including health, education, housing, transportation, training, assistive technology, and personal support; Individuals are limited to one ABLE account, and total annual contributions by all individuals to any one account can be made up to the gift tax limit ($14,000 in 2014); Aggregate contributions to an ABLE account are subject to an overall limit matching the State limit for Section 529 accounts; Individuals with ABLE accounts can maintain eligibility for means-tested benefits. ABLE account balances and withdrawals are completely excluded for the purpose of Medicaid and other benefit programs. In SSI, the first $100,000 in account balances is excluded; and In the event a beneficiary of an ABLE account dies (or no longer has a disability) and has remaining assets in the account, the assets are first distributed to any state Medicaid plan that provided medical assistance to the beneficiary.
12.01.2014	"Today we remember the lives tragically ended because of HIV/AIDS and renew our commitment to the millions more who continue to live with the virus today. Working together, we have made tremendous advances over the past decades in research, treatment, and prevention to offer greater hope for its victims and halt the spread to countless more. We will not rest until this epidemic is stopped once and for all." - Rep. Fred Upton share: f t ​House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement in recognition of World AIDS Day. Observed worldwide on December 1, the day seeks to raise greater public awareness of HIV/AIDS, renew global efforts to stop the epidemic, and remember those lives lost. More than 1.2 million people are currently living in the United States with HIV and almost one in seven are unaware they have the disease, reports the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). “Today we remember the lives tragically ended because of HIV/AIDS and renew our commitment to the millions more who continue to live with the virus today,” said Upton who met this summer with Jeanne White-Ginder, mother of Ryan White, the Indiana teenager who died in 1990 from complications from AIDS after becoming infected with HIV from a contaminated blood treatment. Upton has been a longtime supporter of the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency (CARE) Act, the largest federally funded program in the United States for people living with HIV/AIDS. “Working together, we have made tremendous advances over the past decades in research, treatment, and prevention to offer greater hope for its victims and halt the spread to countless more. We will not rest until this epidemic is stopped once and for all,” continued Upton. This Congress, Upton’s committee successfully advanced S. 330, the HIV Organ Policy Equity (HOPE) Act, which allows research to fully evaluate the safety and efficacy of organ transplantation between individuals with HIV. In 1988, Congress banned the transplantation of HIV-infected organs. Today, HIV treatments have extended and improved the lives of individuals with HIV, increasing the need for organ donations. S. 330 was signed into law by President Obama on November 21, 2013. This spring, Upton partnered with Rep. Diana DeGette (D-Colo.) in launching the bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative, which seeks to accelerate the discovery, development, and delivery of treatments and cures for patients facing life-threatening illnesses like HIV/AIDS. For more information on HIV/AIDS, testing, and prevention, visit http://www.aids.gov.
11.20.2014	Michigan today leads the nation in manufacturing job creation, accounting for more than a half million jobs and more than 90 percent of the state’s exports, according to the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM). That is a record of economic growth and opportunity that we want to see continue, says House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph. Upton and his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives today passed important legislation that will boost manufacturing in states like Michigan and help create more jobs. H.R. 4795, the Promoting New Manufacturing Act, supports U.S. employers by providing them with greater transparency and timeliness in obtaining the federal permits necessary for new manufacturing. H.R. 4795 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 238 to 172 and now awaits action in the U.S. Senate. “The United States has all the ingredients to strengthen our domestic manufacturing dominance,” said Upton, who was recently recognized by NAM for his leadership on issues of importance to domestic manufacturers. “We have the affordable energy supply to run our factories, especially our growing abundance of natural gas. We have private investors willing to invest billions of dollars on new projects in America. We have a workforce that is second to none, but many of whom need jobs. And we have the technical knowledge to build manufacturing facilities that are the cleanest and most efficient in the world. All we need is a regulatory process that will allow it to happen.” H.R. 4795 increases public transparency by requiring the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to publish on its website the total number of preconstruction permits issued; the percentage of permits issued within one year of the filing of a completed application; and the EPA Appeals Board’s average timeline for deciding appeals of preconstruction permit application decisions. “We want to be a world leader in manufacturing, not in red tape,” continued Upton. “I am glad the President identified the potential of new American manufacturing in his State of the Union address, and acknowledged that there is red tape that needs to be cleared away. Passage of H.R. 4795 will help make this goal a reality for our job creators here in Southwest Michigan and across the country.” H.R. 4795 also gives states and permit applicants the critical information they need by requiring the EPA Administrator to issue implementing guidance when publishing a final rule to establish or revise a national ambient air quality standard.
11.20.2014	U.S. Representative Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement in response to the President’s executive action on immigration. During the past two years, Upton has helped lead an effort in the U.S. House of Representatives to get bipartisan immigration reform legislation enacted. “As I’ve long said, our current immigration system is broken and needs bipartisan reform. That means all sides working together – Democrats and Republicans, the White House and Congress – to get the job done,” Upton said. “The President’s ‘go it alone’ approach drives a political wedge into ongoing reform efforts and recklessly disregards our nation’s lawmaking process. And meanwhile, Michigan farmers, employers, law enforcement, and families will continue to live and work under a cloud of uncertainty as our laws are decided at the whim of a lame-duck White House. It’s time for real, thoughtful solutions, not more partisan maneuvering.” In October, Upton welcomed his Florida colleague and chair of the Congressional Hispanic Conference Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart to Kalamazoo, Mich., to share their ongoing immigration reform efforts in Congress, learn of the community’s concerns, and encourage a constructive local dialogue on the issue. Upton and Diaz-Balart hosted an immigration roundtable discussion with local agriculture and business leaders at Southwest Michigan First and met with community members at the Dia de los Muertos celebration at St. Joseph Catholic Church hosted by the Hispanic American Council of Kalamazoo.
11.19.2014	The U.S. House of Representatives today approved bipartisan legislation introduced by House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, to ensure 1.5 million American satellite television viewers continue to receive broadcast programming. H.R. 5782, the STELA Reauthorization Act of 2014, extends for five years the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act (STELA), which expires at the end of the year. The bill also includes a number of targeted reforms to better meet the needs of today’s video marketplace. “The STELA Reauthorization Act is an important piece of legislation that ensures that millions of satellite TV subscribers continue to receive broadcast TV programming from their chosen satellite provider,” said Upton in his remarks on the House floor. “In addition to reauthorizing the distant signals offered by satellite providers, we were able to include targeted reforms that will in fact enhance the video marketplace and allow consumers to access the programming that they want, when they want it. These reforms are prime examples of the kinds of deregulatory changes we are looking at as we work to replace the 80-year-old Communications Act.” The House approved Upton’s H.R. 5782 by voice vote. The extension must now be approved by the U.S. Senate and signed by the President before December 31, 2014. Upton’s full remarks as delivered on the House floor follow: Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I’m pleased to offer yet another outstanding example of bipartisanship and thoughtful policymaking from the Energy and Commerce Committee. The STELA Reauthorization Act is an important piece of legislation that ensures that millions of satellite TV subscribers continue to receive broadcast TV programming from their chosen satellite provider. We have reached across party lines and across the two houses of Congress to craft a compromise bill for this must-pass legislation that will improve the video marketplace for TV viewers across the country. In addition to reauthorizing the distant signals offered by satellite providers, we were able to include targeted reforms that will in fact enhance the video marketplace and allow consumers to access the programming that they want, when they want it. These reforms are prime examples of the kinds of deregulatory changes we are looking at as we work to replace the 80-year-old Communications Act. They’re going to spur investment in communications networks, promote competition, and, yes, create needed American jobs. For example, this bill eliminates the costly CableCARD integration ban that has increased the cost of cable-leased set-top boxes and makes them less energy efficient. Ultimately this is a double-whammy for consumers, because after being forced to pay for an unnecessary and antiquated technology, consumers then have to pay a penalty in the form of higher electric bills. Although we eliminated the whole mandate in our original bill that we passed through our committee, we worked with our Senate colleagues and agreed to sunset the provision in one year. This will provide time for the FCC to hold a working group on successor solutions to CableCARD without unduly delaying the benefits to consumers who choose to lease equipment from their cable provider. This bill also evens the playing field for all video providers. It seeks regulatory parity for cable and satellite providers when it comes to protecting broadcast signals during Nielsen sweeps. It also provides satellite operators and broadcasters with the opportunity to modify local markets - like cable operators already have the ability to do. We hope that, in our update of the Communications Act, we can find additional ways to eliminate regulatory differences that no longer serve a meaningful, technical purpose or that distorts business and consumer incentives. The bill provides other positive, bipartisan reforms, and it is our intent that as we update the Communications Act in the coming Congress that it continues along that very same path. That being said, the matter before us is the reauthorization of these provisions for the millions of satellite video subscribers that depend on them. The clock is ticking, and this bill will ensure when folks flip on their TVs, yes, their favorite show will be available, when they want to watch it. I would urge all my colleagues to vote for this bill as this Congress is quickly drawing to a close. I particularly want to thank the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology Chairman Greg Walden, Ranking Members Henry Waxman and Anna Eshoo, and Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte as well as our respective staffs for the bipartisan and hard work on this important bipartisan legislation. I’d also like to thank our Senate colleagues, Jay Rockefeller and John Thune for their willingness to work with us to find common ground. I am proud of our committee’s record of bipartisan results. As we work toward the CommActUpdate next year to modernize our nation’s communications laws for the innovation era, continued cooperation will be critical to that success. Without this bill, without this reauthorization moving forward, satellite viewers – millions of Americans – will have those sets turned off. It’s important that we reauthorize this bill and I’m pleased to do so in a very bipartisan way.
11.18.2014	One of the most effective ways to reduce crime rates and save taxpayer dollars is through evidence-based investments in crime prevention, says Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, a national anti-crime organization made up of law enforcement leaders and violence survivors. By investing early in at-risk youth, the costly, generational cycle of violence, abuse, and neglect can be stopped. Fight Crime: Invest in Kids today honored U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, with its “Crime Fighter Award” for his efforts on behalf of at-risk children and families. The award recognizes Upton’s support of the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV) program, which provides funding for states to support voluntary home visiting programs that are proven to improve child health, prevent abuse and neglect, encourage positive parenting, and promote school readiness. As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Upton helped ensure a continuation of federal funding for MIECHV, which was set to expire at the end of Fiscal Year 2014. “We know that the early investments made in a child’s life can pay off tremendous dividends down the road, whether that means graduating from high school, landing a permanent job, or staying out of jail,” said Upton. “Like in so many things, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. By investing in our most vulnerable, we can help give these kids a real shot at becoming productive members of society. It is not only a better use of taxpayer dollars, it is a moral investment in our nation’s future.” The “Crime Fighter Award” was presented to Upton by Fight Crime: Invest in Kids member and Berrien County Sheriff L. Paul Bailey. “My number one job as sheriff is to protect public safety by enforcing the law. But after four decades in law enforcement, I know we all are better off if we can prevent crime in the first place,” said Sheriff Bailey. “That is why I came to Washington, DC, today on behalf of the nearly 5,000 law enforcement executives that make up Fight Crime: Invest in Kids to urge Congress to renew funding for home visiting programs that have been proven to cut child abuse and neglect and reduce crime.” Every year, there are roughly 700,000 confirmed cases of abuse or neglect nationwide, which does not take into account those cases that go unreported. The affected children not only carry the emotional scars for a lifetime, they are almost 30 percent more likely to commit a violent crime later on in life, reports Fight Crime: Invest in Kids. Home visiting programs can help break that cycle, significantly reducing the likelihood that an at-risk child will be arrested as an adult.
11.17.2014	Help share the spirit of the season with our veterans, members of the military, and their families! share: f t Southwest Michigan is invited to share the spirit of the season with our veterans, members of the military, and their families by participating in the Red Cross Holiday Mail for Heroes program. Now in its eighth consecutive year, the program allows Americans to express their warm greetings of thanks and holiday cheer with members of our Armed Forces. Representative Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, is encouraging area residents, schools, and community organizations to get involved in the nationwide program by sending personalized greeting cards of appreciation. “A holiday greeting card is a simple but meaningful way to let our brave service members, veterans, and their families know how much we care,” said Upton. “The holidays are an especially important time to let these men and women know that we are grateful for their service and appreciate the daily sacrifices that they and their loved ones make for all of us.” Beginning this year, the Holiday Mail for Heroes program takes on a different look as individual Red Cross chapters take complete control of the program, meaning there will no longer be a national P.O. Box to which cards are sent. Local Red Cross offices are collecting, sorting, and distributing the holiday greeting cards. Upton invites constituents to drop off their Holiday Mail for Heroes greeting cards at either of his constituent service offices, in Kalamazoo or St. Joseph/Benton Harbor. Upton’s offices will be accepting cards until Wednesday, December 3. Kalamazoo District Office 157 South Kalamazoo Mall, Suite 180 Kalamazoo, MI 49007 269-385-0039 St Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office 720 Main Street St. Joseph, MI 49085 269-982-1986 The American Red Cross has kindly asked senders to keep in mind a few guidelines: DO: * Include a heartfelt message and signature * Use generic salutations such as “Dear Service Member, Veteran, or Military Family Member” DO NOT: * Include personal contact information such as home or email addresses * Include inserts of any kind; these items will be removed during the reviewing process * Send letters, packages, or gifts; only cards are accepted * Use cards that contain glitter, which can aggravate existing health issues Holiday Mail for Heroes participants can help spread the word through social media by using the hashtag: #holidaymail. For more information on the program, please visit: http://www.redcross.org/support/get-involved/holiday-mail-for-heroes.
11.14.2014	Today marks the ninth time the House has voted to advance construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, which has been tied up in red tape now for over six years. share: f t The U.S. House of Representatives today approved bipartisan legislation – H.R. 5682 – to approve the application for the Keystone XL pipeline. The landmark energy project is estimated to support tens of thousands of U.S. jobs and provide for the delivery of affordable North American energy supplies. But despite the untold economic benefits and the environmental “green light” from the U.S. Department of State, the project has remained tied up in red tape for more than six years. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, praised today’s bipartisan vote of 252 to 161. A vote on the legislation is expected in the U.S. Senate next week. “President Obama famously proclaimed in January 2013 that he would do ‘whatever it takes’ to create jobs and 2014 was renamed the President's so-called ‘Year of Action.’ But when the chips are down, President Obama is incapable of saying ‘yes’ to a project that would create thousands of American jobs and advance our energy security. But despite the President’s excuses, we haven’t given up on finding a bipartisan solution,” said Upton. “Hopefully, this ninth vote is the charm, and the Senate and President will finally agree that after six years, it’s time to say yes to energy and yes to jobs.” The Keystone XL project has been exhaustively studied with more than 22,000 pages of federal environmental review. It is also expected to be one of the safest pipelines ever built, adhering to the new pipeline safety standards that were advanced by Upton and Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., and signed into law by the President in January 2012.
11.13.2014	"The discoveries being made in the life sciences astound and amaze, opening up opportunities for therapies, treatments, and care never before possible. Thanks to the leadership of individuals like Dr. Woolliscroft, the United States will continue to lead the world in providing the highest level of patient care and medical training." - Rep. Upton share: f t House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today recognized Dr. James O. Woolliscroft as a national leader in the field of public health. Since 2007, Dr. Woolliscroft has served as dean of the University of Michigan Medical School and was recognized this weekend by the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) with its highest honor: the Abraham Flexner Award for Distinguished Service to Medical Education. Dr. Woolliscroft has taken an active interest in Upton’s bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative, which is focused on accelerating the discovery, development, and delivery of lifesaving treatments for patients in the United States. Dr. Woolliscroft participated in Upton’s first Cures roundtable on May 6, 2014, along with leaders from the National Institutes of Health and the Food and Drug Administration. In October, Dr. Woolliscroft welcomed Upton to campus for a tour of the University of Michigan Health System laboratories to see firsthand the incredible scientific discoveries being made by Michigan researchers today. Learn more about 21st Century Cures here Read Dr. Woolliscroft’s October 31 viewpoint in the Kalamazoo Gazette here The full text of Upton’s remarks in the Congressional Record follow: Mr. Speaker, earlier this year, I joined my Energy and Commerce Committee colleague Diana DeGette of Colorado in launching a bipartisan initiative called 21st Century Cures, which is taking the first-ever comprehensive look at the cures process here in the United States – from discovery to development to delivery. Our goal is to help bring lifesaving treatments, devices, and therapies to patients faster and ensure our nation’s laboratories and manufacturers remain global leaders in medical innovation. Our initiative has fostered a nationwide dialogue, bringing together the brightest minds in the field of public health. One of Michigan’s health leaders has been a part of that conversation from the very beginning, taking part in our first Cures roundtable on May 6: Dr. James O. Woolliscroft, MD, dean of the University of Michigan Medical School. I recently had the opportunity to speak with some of the nation’s top health researchers about the cutting-edge work being done in their laboratories at the University of Michigan. The scientific discoveries being made there are truly incredible and will ultimately help save untold American lives. The work being done within the University of Michigan Health System and at the U-M Medical School in particular is in no small part thanks to the visionary leadership of Dr. Woolliscroft. Dr. Woolliscroft was recently recognized by the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) with its highest honor: the Abraham Flexner Award for Distinguished Service to Medical Education. Dr. Woolliscroft has been a national leader in medical education for more than three decades, since joining the U-M medical faculty in 1980. He has served the school in several capacities until becoming dean in 2007, with a focus on transforming the curriculum to train our next generation of medical leaders. In the words of one of his AAMC nominators, Dr. Woolliscroft “has been consistently ahead of his time and often prophetic about the trends in medical education.” He was among the first to advocate moving the paradigm of medical education from the acquisition of knowledge to performance-based metrics. Likewise, Dr. Woolliscroft was among the first to champion medical student training in community settings. Through his tireless efforts, these have become the new standards in medical education. And like all great teachers, Dr. Woolliscroft not only imparts knowledge, but inspires others through his passion for educating. The discoveries being made in the life sciences astound and amaze, opening up opportunities for therapies, treatments, and care never before possible. Thanks to the leadership of individuals like Dr. Woolliscroft, the United States will continue to lead the world in providing the highest level of patient care and medical training.
11.12.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement that he has struck a deal with Chinese President Xi Jinping to reduce carbon emissions. “America’s pain is truly China’s gain. If the President has his way, communities in Michigan and across the country will continue to be at a disadvantage for many years to come. The Chinese are promising to double their emissions while the administration is skirting Congress to impose drastic new regulations inhibiting our own growth and competitiveness. Michigan is at long last on the right track with a resurgence in manufacturing job creation, rising home values, and affordable energy prices. Our families and employers have come too far to turn back the clock on our recovery. Our top priority must be jobs and the economy – plain and simple.”
11.07.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today responded to new reports regarding the recalls of vehicles equipped with faulty Takata air bag inflators. The New York Times today reported that Takata may have been aware of the dangerous defect as early as 2004 but failed to alert safety regulators. Upton’s committee began a review of the Takata air bag issue even before these latest revelations, and has already received bipartisan staff briefings from NHTSA and manufacturers on the status of the air bag recalls; the panel’s oversight of the issue is ongoing. “Our first and most urgent priority is ensuring that drivers and their families are safe on the road. As the recalls continue and the faulty airbags are replaced, we also need answers about when the danger was discovered and whether it was concealed from regulators, or not adequately understood once the regulators became aware. A consistent focus for the committee has been information sharing – making sure that as soon as a danger is identified, the regulators are notified and a plan is put into place to address it. Auto safety will continue to be a priority for this committee for the rest of this Congress and well into next year,” said Upton. The Energy and Commerce Committee has been actively engaged on auto safety issues this year. Upton’s committee conducted an extensive investigation into the General Motors ignition switch recall, and recently released a report detailing NHTSA’s failures in identifying the deadly problem. Following this report, Upton and other committee leaders have requested a Government Accountability Office review of NHTSA’s structure and effectiveness, including the agency’s information sharing capabilities.
11.05.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement regarding the committee’s priorities for the 114th Congress. Upton recently unveiled the #RecordOfSuccess webpage chronicling the committee’s bipartisan achievements in the 113th Congress. “At the Energy and Commerce Committee we have had a proven record of bipartisan success and that will only continue to grow in the coming years. Earlier this year my Democratic colleague Diana DeGette joined me in launching the 21st Century Cures initiative with the goal of accelerating the pace of new cures and treatments. We have heard from patients, researchers, care givers, and innovators for the past several months about the tremendous opportunities we have in the United States to find treatments for the thousands of diseases without them and close the gap between the science of cures and how we regulate them. In the coming weeks we will continue to advance this initiative and work with our colleagues in Congress and the administration to deliver hope to patients and loved ones all across the country. “This is also our chance to govern on energy and environmental policy. We achieved great bipartisan success in the House this Congress advancing commonsense solutions that seek to harness the benefits of the American energy boom and empower states. We unveiled a broad new energy vision called the Architecture of Abundance, which includes plans to build a modern new energy infrastructure and increase energy efficiency. We want to build off our past successes and work together to see these policies enacted. “We have also spent the past year gathering input and information to inform our work to bring the nation’s communications laws into the 21st Century. Over the next several months, we will take what we have learned from our hearings and white papers to update the law to boost job creation and economic growth in the innovation era. Likewise, we have made progress on key issues to consumers, workers, and job creators, exploring issues that range from data protection to privacy to manufacturing. We will continue to advance these priorities in the coming year. “Helping to create jobs and grow the economy have always been our focus, and will continue to be the top priority for the committee. We will work to ensure that all sectors of the economy, including health care, telecommunications, manufacturing, and energy, can tackle today’s challenges and take advantage of the opportunities of the future. And we will continue our careful oversight to hold government accountable to the people. I remain very optimistic and encouraged by the success that we have had over the past two years and look forward to seeing our #RecordOfSuccess grow.”
10.31.2014	The current U.S. immigration system is broken and failing millions, said U.S. Representative Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, who yesterday brought together local leaders for an immigration roundtable discussion at Southwest Michigan First in downtown Kalamazoo. Joining Upton was U.S. Representative Mario Diaz-Balart, R-Fla., who is the cofounder and chair of the Congressional Hispanic Conference in the U.S. House of Representatives. Over the past two years, Upton and Diaz-Balart have been leading a bipartisan effort in the House to get immigration reform legislation enacted. “From the start, Congressman Upton has understood the problems that our immigration system faces, and we have been working together to find an answer that will bolster our economy, respect the rule of law, and protect our nation,” said Rep. Diaz-Balart. “I'm grateful for friends like Congressman Upton who see these problems and have committed themselves to being part of the solution. I look forward to joining him and our House colleagues in the 114th Congress to continue working towards a better tomorrow for our country." The roundtable gave Upton and Diaz-Balart the opportunity to share their ongoing efforts with Southwest Michigan community leaders and to encourage a constructive local dialogue on the issue. Participants included representatives from major area employers, higher education, farmers, and community advocates. “Immigration reform is a critical issue for our country. In Southwest Michigan it really affects three areas: hospitality, university education and agriculture. It's really a matter of national security,” said Ron Kitchens, chief executive officer of local economic development organization Southwest Michigan First. “I'm glad we had the opportunity to speak to Congressman Upton, who is a huge supporter of immigration reform. And I am extremely happy he was able to bring one of the top leaders in the House on this issue, Congressman Diaz-Balart, to talk to Kalamazoo leaders.” Following the roundtable, Upton invited Diaz-Balart to join him for the Dia de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) celebration at St. Joseph Catholic Church hosted by the Hispanic American Council of Kalamazoo. While there, the two met with community members and reiterated their firm commitment to see reform enacted, action that both agree is years overdue. “It as a very emotional moment for me when my Congressman, Fred Upton, told leaders throughout the private sector stakeholders that we all need to work together to make immigration reform a reality,” said Lori Mercedes, Executive Director of the Hispanic American Council, who also took part in the immigration roundtable earlier in the day. “And then to have another Congressman, Mario Diaz-Balart, come and speak to our Hispanic community and tell us that yes, this is a very important issue for Congress to pass. And that they will. It was a tremendous opportunity.” Upton and his staff have continued to regularly meet with a broad range of Michigan stakeholders that each bring a unique perspective to the immigration discussion: farmers, business leaders, higher education, families, faith and community groups, and law enforcement. “This is an issue that has an impact on every community in our country. To further delay reform is to perpetuate the problems of a broken system that hurts millions of families and costs our economy dearly. That is simply unbefitting our great nation,” said Upton. “As we heard today, this is an issue that cannot afford to sit on the back burner any longer. I look forward to continuing my efforts with Mario to get the job done, working with Democrats and Republicans to craft legislation that the President can sign into law. The costs of inaction are simply too great.” This August, Upton and Diaz-Balart were two of only 11 Republican House Members to vote against a measure that sought to stop the Deferred Action for Child Arrivals (DACA) program that provides protections for those who illegally arrived in the United States as children.
10.28.2014	While recently visiting the Family Health Center’s main office in Kalamazoo, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, was presented an award from the National Association of Community Health Centers Inc. Denise Crawford, president and chief executive officer of the center, along with Dr. Allan Wilke, director of the Family Medicine Residency program of Western Michigan University’s School of Medicine, presented Upton with the 2014 Distinguished Community Health Champion Award “In grateful appreciation for your dedication and commitment during the First Session of the 113th Congress to strengthening and expanding access to vital primary health care services for America’s uninsured and medically underserved.” The award is but a small token for how Fred has supported the Family Health Center’s mission, Crawford said. “We’re glad we have Congressman Fred Upton representing our area,” Crawford said. "Fred has been here many times and is a friend of the health center. He really cares about our mission of providing a range of medical, dental and mental health services for our community members who otherwise couldn’t afford it.” Wilke, whose medical students will get vital, supervised hands-on training in the health center, said he is thankful that Upton supported Western’s medical school as well as the needs of the most vulnerable in Southwest Michigan. "It’s obvious that Fred cares about the people who work here and the people who come here for care,” Wilke said. "I appreciate his support of the development of the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine and of our Family Medicine residency program at the Family Health Center.” Upton said he was humbled by the award. “People need to get medical treatments, dental screenings and other check-ups to make sure a small problem doesn’t turn into a big one,” Upton said. “Places like the Family Health Centers help the community in myriad ways. “These care givers are the angels among us and I applaud the work done here by staff, medical school students, doctors, volunteers and everyone else.” The Family Health Center has seven locations throughout Kalamazoo and Portage to help low-income and homeless patients. It provides a range of services such as dental, family practice pediatrics, medical social work and emergency prescription assistance.
10.23.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today led a group of 28 Republican committee members in sending a letter to President Obama, Ebola Response Coordinator Ron Klain, Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell, and Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson seeking further answers on the administration’s response and preparedness efforts to treat those with Ebola, prevent any further spread in the United States, and stop the spread of the virus at its source in West Africa. The members write, “with a series of questions and recommendations to ensure that the U.S. response to the risks posed by the Ebola outbreak in West Africa is as effective as possible in protecting the public health and safety of the American people. Congress stands ready to serve as a strong and solid partner in solving this crisis.” Upton and fellow committee members requested more information about the administration’s plan to prevent the spread of Ebola in the United States, rationale behind its opposition to travel restrictions, efforts to improve the development of diagnostic testing and screening, and the capacity of the U.S. public health system to identify and treat patients with Ebola. Read the complete letter online here. “Energy and Commerce Committee members have serious concerns about insufficient planning and preparedness from the administration in response to the ongoing Ebola threat. In an effort to provide some peace of mind to the American people, we continue to ask the administration to outline a clear strategy and work with us to ensure that every step necessary is being taken to protect the public health. With a disease as deadly as Ebola, there is no margin for error,” commented Upton. Energy and Commerce Committee leaders first sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell seeking details on the administration’s preparedness and response efforts on September 12, 2014. The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee held a hearing last week, which left members with additional questions about the status of a clear and effective strategy to address the threat of Ebola in both the United States and Africa. The letter was signed by: Full Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy (R-PA) Full Committee Chairman Emeritus Joe Barton (R-TX) Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-PA) Full Committee Vice Chairman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) Vice Chairman of the Health and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittees Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) Rep. Ed Whitfield (R-KY) Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL) Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE) Rep. Mike Rogers (R-MI) Rep. Phil Gingrey, M.D. (R-GA) Rep. Steve Scalise (R-LA) Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH) Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS) Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ) Rep. Bill Cassidy (R-LA) Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY) Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX) Rep. David McKinley (R-WV) Rep. Cory Gardner (R-CO) Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-KS) Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA) Rep. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL) Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH) Rep. Billy Long (R-MO) Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-NC) Read the complete letter online here
10.22.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today responded to the expanded recall of vehicles equipped with faulty Takata air bag inflators and warnings by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) this week urging drivers to get their cars fixed over concerns that air bag rupture could lead to severe injuries. “The auto industry has made vast advancements in safety over the last decades – something to be commended – but as new safety features and technologies are developed, we are faced with new challenges. Airbags were designed to improve safety and help save lives, which is why it’s so disconcerting to hear reports of this life-saving tool posing a potential hazard to drivers. Recalls continue to mount across the country, and drivers are losing confidence. The first priority must be to ensure that all cars on the road are safe, and I urge drivers to heed NHTSA’s warnings and act immediately to get their vehicles fixed. We also need to take a close look at this airbag issue and the timeline and scope of the recalls to ensure that the appropriate steps are being taken to protect drivers and their families. I’ve long said that when it comes to vehicle safety, there can be no margin for error,” said Upton. Drivers can visit SaferCar.gov to determine if their vehicle is affected by the airbag recalls. Committee staff has requested a briefing with NHTSA on the status of the Takata air bag recalls and will also be meeting with auto manufacturers to discuss supplier issues. Upton has been a leader on vehicle safety issues and was the author of the TREAD Act, which enhanced communication between auto manufacturers and regulators and increased NHTSA’s ability to collect and analyze information about safety defects. The committee this year has been conducting an extensive investigation into the General Motors ignition switch recall, and recently released a report detailing NHTSA’s failures in identifying the deadly problem. The investigation found NHTSA failed to act on evidence identifying the defect and lacked a technical understanding of advanced vehicle safety systems.
10.21.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement in response to today’s announcement by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security of new travel restrictions and protective measures to prevent the spread of Ebola to the United States. The new policy would require travelers arriving in the United States whose travel originates in Guinea, Liberia, or Sierra Leone to fly into one of five U.S. airports – John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey, Washington Dulles International Airport in Virginia, Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Georgia and O’Hare International Airport in Chicago – that have already adopted enhanced screening measures and added protocols. “Funneling all passengers through these five airports helps close a gap that could have allowed affected travelers into our country with no screening at all, which makes it a good start, but certainly not a complete solution,” Upton stated. “I continue to believe more comprehensive travel restrictions can be used to keep Ebola from spreading and allow us to train all of our resources on treating the sick and containing this disease in the affected countries.” Last week, Upton’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held an urgent, bipartisan hearing with some of the United States’ top public health officials to examine the U.S. public health response to Ebola. Upton then questioned Dr. Thomas Frieden, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), on the use of travel restrictions from regions of Africa impacted by the fatal disease. Watch Upton’s exchange with CDC Director Frieden HERE.
10.17.2014	Upton: “In a time of partisan politics, the Energy and Commerce Committee has been able to rise above and get the job done, working together to make a difference for countless families here in Michigan and across the country.” share: f t The House Energy and Commerce Committee today launched its #RecordOfSuccess webpage, highlighting its bipartisan accomplishments in the 113th Congress to create jobs and spur economic growth, modernize government for the innovation era, and protect families, communities, and civic initiatives. Under the leadership of Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, 84 committee bills have cleared the House of Representatives, with 32 bills becoming law, and 52 bills awaiting Senate action. Upton commented, “I’m very proud of our proven record of success and appreciate the continued bipartisan efforts made by our committee members. In a time of partisan politics, the Energy and Commerce Committee has been able to rise above and get the job done, working together to make a difference for countless families here in Michigan and across the country. But our results should be even better with over four-dozen bills awaiting action in the Senate. I am proud that every single one of our bills received Democratic votes in the House, and over two-dozen bills now on the Senate’s doorstep cleared the House with a veto-proof margin. Our work continues, and we welcome the Senate to swiftly approve our bipartisan bills.” To view the committee’s #RecordOfSuccess and to track legislation that remains #StuckInTheSenate, click here. An Accounting of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s #RecordOfSuccess for the 113th Congress Follows Below: (As of October 15, 2014) Public Laws: Legislation Passed by the House and the Senate (25 public laws containing 32 E&C bills) H.R. 307, Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Approved by the Senate on February 27, 2013; Approved by the House on March 4, 2013; Signed into law on March 13, 2013) H.R. 267, Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on February 13, 2013; Approved by the Senate on August 1, 2013; Signed into law August 9, 2013) H.R. 2576, To amend title 49, United States Code, to modify requirements relating to the availability of pipeline safety regulatory documents, and for other purposes (Approved by the House on July 16, 2013; Approved by the Senate on August 1, 2013; Signed into law on August 9, 2013) S. 330 (H.R. 698), HIV Organ Policy Equity Act (Approved by the Senate on June 17, 2013; Approved by the House on November 12, 2013; Signed into law on November 12, 2013) H.R. 2094, School Access to Emergency Epinephrine Act (Approved by the House on July 30, 2013; Approved by the Senate on October 31, 2013; Signed into law on November 13, 2013) S. 252 (H.R. 541), PREEMIE Reauthorization Act (Approved by the Senate on September 25, 2013; Approved by the House on November 12, 2013; Signed into law on November 27, 2013) Includes: H.R. 225, National Pediatric Research Network Act of 2013 S. 1561, CHIMP Act Amendments of 2013 H.R. 3204, Drug Quality and Security Act (Approved by the House on September 28, 2013; Approved by the Senate on November 18, 2013; Signed into law on November 27, 2013) H.R. 3204 combined the following two bills: H.R. 1919, Safeguarding America's Pharmaceuticals Act of 2013 H.R. 3089, Compounding Clarity Act of 2013 H.R. 3588, Community Fire Safety Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on December 2, 2013; Approved by the Senate on December 17, 2013; Signed into law on December 20, 2013) H.J. Res. 59, Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on December 12, 2013; Approved by the Senate on December 18, 2013 Signed into law on December 26, 2013) H.R. 623, Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium Land Transfer Act (Approved by the House on October 29, 2013; Approved by the Senate on December 20, 2013; Signed into law on December 26, 2013) H.R. 3527, Poison Center Network Act (Approved by the House on ­­­­­­­­­­­January 8, 2014; Approved by the Senate on January 14, 2014; Signed into law on January 24, 2014) H.R. 4302, Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (Approved by the House on March 27, 2014; Approved by the Senate on March 31, 2014; Signed into law on April 1, 2014) Includes: H.R. 846, Diagnostic Imaging Services Access Protection Act of 2013 H.R. 2995, Unnecessary Cap Act of 2013 H.R. 1263, Excellence in Mental Health Act H.R. 2019, Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act (Approved by the House on December 11, 2013; Approved by the Senate on March 11, 2014; Signed into law on April 3, 2014) S. 1557 (H.R. 297), Children's Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Approved by the Senate on November 12, 2013; Approved by the House on April 1, 2014; Signed into law on April 7, 2014) H.R. 724, To amend the Clean Air Act to remove the requirement for dealer certification of new light-duty motor vehicles (Approved by the House on January 8, 2014; Approved by the Senate on May 22, 2014; Signed into law on June 9, 2014) S. 622 (H.R. 1407), Animal Drug User Fee Amendments of 2013 (Approved by the Senate on May 8, 2013; Approved by the House on June 3, 2014; Signed into law on June 13, 2014) Includes: H.R. 1408, Animal Generic Drug User Fee Amendments of 2013 S. 2086, Reliable Home Heating Act (Approved by the Senate on May 21, 2014; Approved by the House on June 23, 2014; Signed into law on June 30, 2014) H.R. 316, Collinsville Renewable Energy Production Act (Approved by the Senate on June 23, 2014; Approved by the House on June 23, 2014; Signed into law on June 30, 2014) H.R. 803, Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (Approved by the House on March 15, 2013; Approved Senate changes on July 9, 2014; Signed into law on July 22, 2014) H.R 1528, Veterinary Medicine Mobility Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on July 8, 2014; Approved by the Senate on July 16, 2014; Signed into law on August 1, 2014) H.R. 4631, Combating Autism Reauthorization Act of 2014 (Approved by the House on June 24, 2014; Approved by the Senate on July 31, 2014; Signed into law on August 8, 2014) H.R. 3548, Improving Trauma Care Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on ­­­­­­­­­­­June 24, 2014; Approved by the Senate on July 31, 2014; Signed into law on August 8, 2014) S. 276, a bill to reinstate and extend the deadlines for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project involving the American Falls Reservoir (Approved by the Senate on June 19, 2013; Approved by the House on September 11, 2014; Signed into law on September 26, 2014) S. 2154 (H.R. 4290), Emergency Medical Services for Children Reauthorization Act of 2014 OR Wakefield Act (Approved by Senate on September 10, 2014; Approved by House on September 16, 2014; Signed into law on September 26, 2014) H.R. 594, Paul D. Wellstone Muscular Dystrophy Community Assistance Research and Education Amendments of 2014 (Approved by the House on July 28, 2014, by voice vote; Signed into law on September 26, 2014) Committee Legislation Passed by the House and Pending Senate Consideration or Resolution (52 E&C bills await Senate consideration) H.R. 1580, To affirm the policy of the United States regarding Internet governance (Approved by the House on May 14, 2012, by a vote of 413-0) H.R. 235, Veteran Emergency Medical Technician Support Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on February 12, 2013, by voice vote) H.R. 45, To repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and health care-related provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Approved by the house on May 16, 2013, by a vote of 229-195) H.R. 271, Resolving Environmental and Grid Reliability Conflicts Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on May 22, 2013, by voice vote) H.R. 3, Northern Route Approval Act (Approved by the House on May 22, 2013, by a vote of 241-175) H.R. 2218, Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on July 25, 2013, by a vote of 265-155) H.R. 2754, To amend the Hobby Protection Act to make unlawful the provision of assistance or support in violation of that Act, and for other purposes (Approved by the House on July 30, 2013, by voice vote) H.R. 1582, Energy Consumers Relief Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on August 1, 2013, by a vote of 232-81) H.R. 2052, Global Investment in American Jobs Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on September 9, 2013, by a vote of 379-32) H.R. 2844, Federal Communications Commission Consolidated Reporting Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on September 9, 2013, by a vote of 415-0) H.R. 2775, No Subsidies Without Verification Act (Approved by the House on September 12, 2013, by a vote of 235-191) H.R. 3350, Keep Your Health Plan Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on November 15, 2013, by a vote of 261-157) H.R. 1900, Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act (Approved by the House on November 21, 2013, by a vote of 252-165) H.R. 2279, Reducing Excessive Deadline Obligations Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on January 9, 2014, by a vote of 225-188) Includes: H.R. 2226, Federal and State Partnership for Environmental Protection Act of 2013 H.R. 2318, Federal Facility Accountability Act of 2013 H.R. 3811, Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act of 2014 (Approved by the House on January 10, 2014, by a vote of 291-122) H.R. 3362, Exchange Information Disclosure Act (Approved by the House on January 16, 2014, by a vote of 259-154) H.R. 7, No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act (Approved by the House on January 28, 2014, by a vote of 227-188) H.R. 3590, Sportsmen's Heritage And Recreational Enhancement Act (Approved by the House on February 15, 2014, by a vote of 268-154) H.R. 938, United States-Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on March 5, 2014, by a vote of 410-1). The Energy and Commerce Committee reported H.R. 3683, which was incorporated into H.R. 938 H.R. 2126 (S. 1191), Better Buildings Act of 2014 (Approved by the House on March 5, 2014, by a vote of 375-36) Includes: H.R. 540 (S. 1261), Energy Efficient Government Technology Act H.R. 3820 (S. 1206), To encourage benchmarking and disclosure of energy information for commercial buildings H.R. 4066 (S. 1739), To modify the efficiency standards for grid-enabled water heaters H.R. 3826, Electricity Security and Affordability Act (Approved by the House on March 6, 2014, by a vote of 229-183) H.R. 3675, Federal Communications Commission Process Reform Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on March 11, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 4015, SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act of 2014 (Approved by the House on March 14, 2014, by a vote of 238-181) H.R. 4414, Expatriate Health Coverage Clarification Act of 2014 (Approved by the House on April 29, 2014, by a vote of 268-150) H.R. 4092, Streamlining Energy Efficiency for Schools Act of 2014 (Approved by the House on June 23, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 4801, to require the Secretary of Energy to prepare a report on the impact of thermal insulation on both energy and water use for potable hot water (Approved by the House on June 23, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 3301, North American Energy Infrastructure Act (Approved by the House on June 24, 2014, by a vote of 238-173) H.R. 1098, Traumatic Brain Injury Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on June 24, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 1281, Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on June 24, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 4080, Trauma Systems and Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorization Act (Approved by the House on June 24, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 6, Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act Approved by the House on June 25, 2014, by a vote of 266-150) H.R. 4007, Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards Program Authorization and Accountability Act of 2014 (Approved by the House on July 8, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 4572, STELA Reauthorization Act of 2014 (Approved by the House on July 22, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 4450, Travel Promotion, Enhancement, and Modernization Act of 2014 (Approved by the House on July 23, 2014, by a vote of 347-57) H.R. 3696, National Cybersecurity and Critical Infrastructure Protection Act of 2014 (Approved by the House on July 28, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 4250 (S. 2141), Sunscreen Innovation Act (Approved by the House on July 28, 2014, by voice vote; S. 2141 was approved by the Senate as amended on September 18, 2014, by unanimous consent) H.R. 4709, Ensuring Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforcement Act (Approved by the House on July 29, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 669, Sudden Unexpected Death and Data Enhancement and Awareness Act (Approved by the House on September 9, 2014 by voice vote) H.R. 4067, a bill to help ensure patients, including Medicare patients and those in rural communities, have access to health care they need (Approved by the House on September 9, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 4701, Vector-Borne Disease Research Accountability and Transparency Act (Approved by the House on September 9, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 3670, Anti-Spoofing Act of 2013 (Approved by the House on September 9, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 5057, EPS Service Parts Act of 2014 (Approved by the House on September 11, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 5161 (S. 2583), E-LABEL Act (Approved by the House on September 11, 2014, by a vote of 402-29; S. 2583 was passed by the Senate on September 18, 2014, by unanimous consent) H.R. 3522, Employee Health Care Protection Act (Approved by the House on September 11, 2014, by a vote of 247-167) H.R. 83, a bill to require the Secretary of the Interior to develop an action plan to address the energy needs of the insular areas of the United States and the Freely Associated States (Approved by the House on September 15, 2014, by voice vote; Approved by the Senate, as amended, by unanimous consent on September 18, 2014) H.R. 4771, Designer Anabolic Steroid Control Act (Approved by the House on September 15, 2014, by voice vote) H.R. 2, American Energy Solutions for Lower Costs and More American Jobs Act (Approved by the House on September 18, 2014, by a vote of 226-191) H.R. 2 included previously House-passed H.R. 3, H.R. 1900. H.R. 3301, H.R. 1582, H.R. 3826, H.R. 4801, and H.R. 6) Visit energycommerce.house.gov/recordofsuccess to keep track of committee bills
10.16.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, held a hearing today with some of the nation’s top public health officials to examine the U.S public health response to the Ebola outbreak. Held by the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, the bipartisan hearing focused on the role of U.S. public health agencies and their efforts to prevent the spread of Ebola within the United States. “We need all hands on deck. We need a strategy. And we need to protect the American people, first and foremost,” said Upton in his opening remarks. “It’s not a drill – people’s lives are at stake, and the response so far has been unacceptable.” The preparedness of U.S. ports, points of entry, health care facilities, and other institutions to identify, diagnose, isolate, and treat Ebola patients in a safe and appropriate manner were also evaluated. “We need a plan to treat those who are sick, to train healthcare workers to safely provide care, and to stop the spread of this disease here at home and at its source in Africa. This includes travel restrictions or bans from that region beginning today,” continued Upton. “Surely we can find other ways to get the aid workers and supplies in to these countries. From terrorist watch lists to quarantines, there are tools used to manage air travel to assure public safety. Why not here? We can no longer be reacting to each day’s crisis. We need to be aggressive and finally get ahead of this outbreak.” Upton directly questioned Dr. Thomas Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), on the use of travel restrictions from regions of Africa impacted by the fatal disease. In addition to CDC Director Frieden, Upton and fellow committee members heard from officials from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and Texas Health Resources. Watch Upton’s opening remarks here Watch Upton’s Q&A with CDC Director Frieden here The full-text of Upton’s opening remarks follow: Let me first begin by thanking our witnesses and all of the Members, Republicans and Democrats, for being here today. You know, it’s unusual to convene a hearing in DC during a district work period, but on this issue, there’s no time to wait. I was likewise glad to see the President get off the campaign trail yesterday to finally focus on the crisis. People are scared. We need all hands on deck. We need a strategy. And we need to protect the American people, first and foremost. It’s not a drill – people’s lives are at stake, and the response so far has been unacceptable. As Chairman of this committee, I want to assure the witnesses that we stand ready to support you in any way to keep Americans safe, but we’re going to hold your feet to the fire on getting the job done, and getting it done right. Both the US and the global health community have so far failed to put in place an effective strategy fast enough to combat the current outbreak. The CDC admitted more could have been done in Texas. Two health care workers have become infected with Ebola even as nurses and other medical personnel suggest that protocols are being “developed on the fly.” And none of us can understand how a nurse who treated an Ebola-infected patient, and who herself had developed a fever, was permitted to board a commercial airline and fly across the country. It’s no wonder the public’s confidence is shaken. Over a month ago, before Ebola reached our shores, we wrote HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell seeking details for the preparedness and response plan here at home and abroad. And it’s clear whatever plan was in place was insufficient, but I believe that we can and must do better now. We need a plan to treat those who are sick, to train healthcare workers to safely provide care, and to stop the spread of this disease here at home and at its source in Africa. This includes travel restrictions or bans from that region beginning today. Surely we can find other ways to get the aid workers and supplies in to these countries. From terrorist watch lists to quarantines, there are tools used to manage air travel to assure public safety. Why not here? We can no longer be reacting to each day’s crisis. We need to be aggressive and finally get ahead of this outbreak. The American people also want to know about our troops and medical personnel who are courageously headed to Africa to treat the sick. How are they going to be protected? We want to know that health care workers here in America have the training and resources necessary to safely combat that threat as well. So it’s not just the responsibility of the US. The global health community bears the charge to finally get ahead of the threat, develop a clear strategy, train all of those involved in combating this disease, and eradicate the threat. We have all heard the grave warnings that this is going to get worse before it gets better – people are scared. It is our responsibility to ensure that the government is doing whatever it can to keep the public safe. Diana DeGette and I have partnered together on the 21st Century Cures initiative to help improve the research and speed the approval of life-saving medicines and treatments, and while much attention has been paid to how this effort can help with diseases like cancer and diabetes, these same reforms have to help us in the development of treatments for deadly infections like Ebola. We are partners in this effort to save lives.
10.15.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, has been recognized by the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) for his continued efforts to support the growth of manufacturing in the United States. Upton received the “NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence” for his voting record in the 113th Congress on issues that are of importance to domestic manufacturers. Upton was one of only three members of the Michigan delegation to receive a 100 percent rating from NAM. “We are a nation of builders and Michigan manufacturers have been at the forefront of our economic comeback, leading the nation for manufacturing job creation. We want to see that record of growth and innovation continue,” said Upton, who recently took part in Manufacturing Day at Mach Mold in Benton Harbor, Mich. Manufacturing employs more than a half million men and women in Michigan, according to NAM, and accounts for more than 90 percent of the state’s exports. “We need the right policies to keep Michigan manufacturers competitive,” continued Upton. “That means supporting lower energy costs through the responsible production of North American energy; a regulatory system that takes into account economic costs and common sense; properly maintained transportation infrastructure; and a pro-growth tax code that puts our manufacturers on an even footing with overseas competitors.” NAM is the largest manufacturing association in the United States, representing small and large manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states. “Manufacturers in Michigan and throughout the United States are making a comeback, creating jobs, making more products and making them better than ever before,” said NAM Senior Vice President of Policy and Government Relations Aric Newhouse. “However, manufacturers are often disproportionately impacted by decisions made by policymakers in Washington. The NAM is proud to stand with lawmakers like Representative Upton, who understand what is at stake and seek to implement policies that will foster innovation, growth and competitiveness.” The “NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence” is awarded based on a list of Key Manufacturing Votes selected by NAM’s Key Vote Advisory Committee.
10.14.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement regarding the ongoing Ebola outbreak. The Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations will hold a hearing this Thursday, October 16, at noon to examine the U.S. public health response to the outbreak. Officials from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will be among the hearing witnesses. “Ebola has been on the world's radar screen since March and yet the United States and the international community are still scrambling to stay ahead of and stop this outbreak. We remain gravely concerned about this ongoing threat and the committee will continue diligently investigating the response efforts and preparedness plans,” said Upton. “The stakes could not be any higher, and as I have said before, we cannot afford to look back at this point in history and say we could have done more.” More background for Thursday’s hearing is available online here. The committee first sent a letter to HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell seeking more information regarding the ongoing Ebola outbreak and preparedness and response efforts at home and abroad on September 12, 2014.
10.10.2014	U.S. Representative Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement in strong opposition to a White House proposal that would bring violent terrorists held at the U.S. Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United States. Both the House and Senate have repeatedly enacted bipartisan measures, signed by the President, barring any funds from being used to transfer these detainees into the United States. “The recent beheadings of two Americans are a horrific reminder that the threat of radical Islam is real and must be eliminated. The terrorists held at Guantanamo are not ordinary criminals – they are hardened extremists in the midst of an endless war against the United States, our citizens, and values. The American people strongly oppose bringing these dangerous jihadists to U.S. soil and the Congress has repeatedly acted to ensure the current ban on such detainee transfers remains law. The administration’s most recent proposal follows its unlawful release of five senior Taliban leaders this summer. It is a reckless disregard of reality and U.S. law.” Last month, Upton and his House colleagues passed a bipartisan resolution (H.Res.644) condemning the administration for its failure to properly notify Congress before releasing five senior Taliban members from Guantanamo in exchange for the release of U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl. The non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) – the federal government’s independent internal watchdog agency – found the action to be in violation of U.S. law, which requires Congress to be notified at least 30 days in advance of such a transfer.
10.07.2014	Over the past several months, the bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative has fostered a robust conversation among patients, researchers, medical professionals, and advocates from across the country on how to accelerate the pace at which lifesaving medical treatments are discovered, developed, and delivered in the United States. Launched this spring by House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, the initiative aims to save patients lives through faster cures and help employers in states like Michigan continue to be global leaders in medical innovation. This morning, Upton brings his 21st Century Cures conversation to Southwest Michigan with a roundtable discussion between distinguished health industry leaders at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine in downtown Kalamazoo. Opening Statement of House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (as prepared for delivery): Today we continue our tremendous bipartisan efforts on the 21st Century Cures initiative with this Southwest Michigan roundtable. Launched this spring, the initiative aims to save patients’ lives through faster cures and help employers in states like our great state of Michigan to continue to be global leaders in medical innovation. Today we will discuss ideas that we have received over the past several months and look to more specific steps we can take to accelerate the cycle of cures and the role Southwest Michigan’s patients, researchers, medical professionals, advocates, and industry play in keeping America the innovation capital of the world. Over the past several months, the 21st Century Cures initiative has fostered a robust conversation and a number of our committee members have held roundtables across the country to hear about how American innovation is providing hope, saving lives and creating jobs. Today is no exception. It will provide an opportunity for us to see how Southwest Michigan can help accelerate the cycle of cures and make a real difference in the lives of Americans. Whether it’s cutting edge Parkinson’s research happening at the Van Andel Institute, the potential game-changing diabetes treatments under development at Metabolic Solutions, or the breakthroughs that continue to happen at Pfizer and Stryker, our region of Michigan has proven it’s at the forefront of advances in the life sciences field. I’m excited to welcome Dr. Burgess, Dr. Collins and Dr. Shuren to Southwest Michigan to hear firsthand all the good work being done here. To continue our work toward more cures and treatments, we have brought together another all-star roundtable. Joining us today we have: Dr. Michael Burgess, Member of Congress and Vice Chair of the Subcommittees on Health and Oversight and Investigations Dr. Francis Collins, Director of the National Institutes of Health Dr. Jeffrey Shuren, Director of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health at the Food and Drug Administration Ms. Kirsten Axelsen, Vice President of Worldwide Policy at Pfizer, Inc. Mr. Stephen Benoit, CEO of Metabolic Solutions Mr. Richard Stec, Vice President of Global Regulatory Affairs of Perrigo Pharmaceuticals Dr. Hal Jenson, Founding Dean and Professor at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine Dr. Peter Jones, Research Director and Chief Scientific Officer of the Van Andel Institute Mr. Kevin Lobo, Chairman and CEO of Stryker Corporation Mr. Tony Mandarino, Director of the Alex Mandarino Foundation Dr. Joseph Mirro, President, CEO, and Chief Medical Officer at West Michigan Cancer Center We need to hear from the full panel, so I’d ask the participants to keep their answers brief, to about a minute if possible so we can keep the conversation moving. In closing, I want to thank all of you for participating today, and I would specifically like to recognize the inaugural class and faculty of Western Michigan University’s Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine who are in attendance today. We are counting on you to find the discoveries and cures of the future. I also want to thank everyone who has offered their input on this 21st Century Cures initiative. I can’t tell you how much we appreciate the thoughtful contributions from Michiganders and folks all across the country. We intend to release a Cures legislative discussion draft in early January 2015 and will look to swiftly move the legislation early in the next Congress. If you want your idea considered, please send it to cures@mail.house.gov as soon as possible. The more specific the idea, the better. Now, I’d like to give our participants a chance to offer some opening comments. Please keep your comments to a couple minutes. Let’s start with Dr. Collins . . .
10.07.2014	U.S. Representative Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement in response to today’s announcement by the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) that a water sample within the lower Kalamazoo River, Allegan County, tested positive for Asian carp environmental DNA (eDNA). “This finding is a frightening reminder of the threat posed to our fragile Great Lakes ecosystem. Building upon the success of this year’s water resources bill, the Great Lakes region must work together to find a solution that protects our treasured waters for future generations,” said Upton, a leading member of the congressional Great Lakes Task Force. “Thousands of jobs hang in the balance as our Great Lakes support a multi-billion-dollar fishing industry, which could be quickly decimated if the carp reach our waters. I applaud Governor Snyder for recognizing the urgency of this situation. We must all remain vigilant until this destructive force is stopped.” Upton’s office has been in close contact with the State of Michigan and will receive additional information as further testing is conducted. Earlier this year, Upton voted for the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) of 2014, which passed the House by a nearly unanimous vote of 412 to 4. Now law, WRRDA seeks to prevent the spread of Asian carp by requiring USFWS – along with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, National Park Service, and U.S. Geological Survey – to provide technical assistance, coordination, and support to state and local governments. Additionally, WRRDA authorizes the Army Corps to make modifications and enhancements to existing projects to prevent the spread of invasive species within the Great Lakes. Per the Michigan DNR and USFWS, 200 water samples were taken along the Kalamazoo River in June 2014 and then again in July. Of those latter 200 samples, one tested positive for Asian carp eDNA. The findings “indicate the presence of genetic material of silver carp, such as scales, excrement or mucous. However, there is no evidence that a population of silver carp is established in the Kalamazoo River.” Popular activities in the Kalamazoo River, like recreational boating and fishing, increase the possibility of carp eDNA entering the river without the presence of a live carp.
10.03.2014	​Hundreds of area students and community members turned out for Southwest Michigan’s second annual Manufacturing Day today at Mach Mold in Benton Harbor for the opportunity to interact with area manufacturing businesses and learn more about careers in the manufacturing industry. More than 1,500 similar events were held across the country today to recognize America’s manufacturers and their successes in innovation, job creation, and community development. U.S. Representative Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, spent the morning speaking with exhibitors and students representing a dozen local schools. As part of the visit, Upton also sat down for a roundtable discussion with business owners, community development leaders, and elected officials, where he shared his bipartisan efforts to bring greater certainty to Michigan’s economy and accelerate job creation and economic growth. “Manufacturing is the backbone of our economy here in Southwest Michigan – we need to give these local businesses, large and small, the certainty they need to continue to innovate, grow their operations, and create jobs,” said Upton, who was at Mann + Hummel in Kalamazoo, Mich., earlier this week as the auto component manufacturer dedicated its $17.4 million expansion, which will bring 70 new jobs to the area. Michigan now leads the nation as the state that is creating the most new manufacturing jobs. That trend has been supported by statewide reforms, including passage of the Proposal 1 ballot initiative in August 2014, which will save businesses more than $550 million by eliminating the personal property tax on industrial and commercial personal property. “We have made impressive progress toward strengthening our manufacturing dominance in recent years, but we can do better with the right policies. As we stand at the verge of a manufacturing renaissance, it is more important now than ever that we construct a regulatory framework that allows our manufacturers to thrive,” continued Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Today’s event was organized by Benton Harbor nonprofit Kinexus, which is focused on community and workforce development in Berrien, Cass, and Van Buren counties. “Manufacturing Day brings together manufactures and educators to inspire tomorrow's talent and ensure the industry remains a driving force for Southwest Michigan's economy,” said Todd Gustafson, Kinexus executive director. The three-county region is home to more than 450 manufacturing businesses, which account for nearly 17,000 manufacturing jobs in Southwest Michigan, according to the economic modeling software firm Economic Modeling Specialists Intl. (EMSI).
10.01.2014	"Michigan has an important role to play in this effort to provide more hope for families, and better treatments and cures for patients.” - Rep. Upton share: f t Over the past several months, the bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative has fostered a robust conversation among patients, researchers, medical professionals, and advocates from across the country on how to accelerate the pace at which lifesaving medical treatments are discovered, developed, and delivered in the United States. Launched this spring by House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, the initiative aims to save patients lives through faster cures and help employers in states like Michigan continue to be global leaders in medical innovation. Upton announced yesterday that he will be bringing his 21st Century Cures conversation to Southwest Michigan with a roundtable discussion between distinguished health industry leaders (listed below). Members of the public are invited to join the Cures conversation on digital media via Facebook and Twitter by using the hashtag #Path2Cures. Additional information on 21st Century Cures may be found online at http://energycommerce.house.gov/cures. Participants will include: Ms. Kirsten Axelsen, Vice President of Worldwide Policy, Pfizer @pfizer Mr. Stephen Benoit, CEO, Metabolic Solutions Development Company @stephencbenoit The Hon. Michael Burgess, M.D., Member of Congress @michaelcburgess Dr. Francis Collins, Director, National Institutes of Health @NIHDirector Dr. Hal Jenson, Founding Dean and Professor, Western Michigan University School of Medicine @WMUMedicine Dr. Peter Jones, Research Director and Chief Scientific Officer, Van Andel Research Institute @VAInstitute Mr. Kevin Lobo, Chairman and CEO, Stryker Corporation @StrykerNews Mr. Tony Mandarino, Director, The Alex Mandarino Foundation Dr. Joseph Mirro, President, CEO, and Chief Medical Officer, West Michigan Cancer Center @WestMICancerCtr Mr. William Parfet, Chairman and CEO, MPI Research @Mpiresearch_co Dr. Jeffrey Shuren, Director of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Food and Drug Administration @US_FDA Mr. Richard Stec, Vice President of Global Regulatory Affairs, Perrigo Pharmaceuticals @PerrigoCareers ​The Hon. Fred Upton, Member of Congress​ @RepFredUpton
09.30.2014	The health sciences have deep roots in Southwest Michigan dating back to the founding of the Upjohn Company in the 19th century. Today, employers like Perrigo, Pfizer, MPI Research, and Stryker continue to lead the world in medical innovation while providing for thousands of jobs across the region. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, wants to make sure that local legacy of delivering life-saving treatments and cures continues to grow in the 21st century and beyond. That is why Upton joined Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colo., earlier this year in launching a new bipartisan initiative called 21st Century Cures. Their goal is to accelerate the pace at which lifesaving medical treatments are discovered, developed, and delivered in the United States. Through a series of hearings, roundtables, and white papers, Upton’s committee has spent the past several months taking the first-ever comprehensive look at the cycle of cures, gathering invaluable input from patients, researchers, medical professionals, and advocates from across the country. Upton plans to unveil legislation based on the feedback received over the past several months at the start of the 114th Congress. Upton today announced that he will be bringing his 21st Century Cures conversation to Southwest Michigan with a roundtable next Tuesday, October 7, 2014, at the newly opened Western Michigan University (WMU) Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine at the W.E. Upjohn campus in downtown Kalamazoo. Dr. Francis Collins, Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and Dr. Jeff Shuren, Director of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), will be among the featured participants. “This has been a truly collaborative and bipartisan effort from the very beginning. Every one of us has been impacted by a life-threatening disease in one way or another, which is why this work is so important,” said Upton. “Southwest Michigan has long been synonymous with cutting-edge medical research and care – from our nationally recognized hospitals and manufacturers to our most recent addition, the WMU School of Medicine. I am so pleased that Dr. Collins and Dr. Shuren have agreed to take part in this important conversation with health industry leaders right here in our own community. Michigan has an important role to play in this effort to provide more hope for families, and better treatments and cures for patients.” Further details on the program and a full list of participants will be announced in the near future. Members of the public are invited to join the conversation on digital media via Facebook and Twitter by using the hashtag #Path2Cures. Additional information on 21st Century Cures may be found online at http://energycommerce.house.gov/cures.
09.30.2014	With news of the first confirmed Ebola case in the United States, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement about the confirmed case of Ebola in the United States: “Given the severity of the outbreak in Africa, perhaps it was only a matter of time for the first case of Ebola to reach our shores,” said Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Nevertheless, today’s news should serve as a wake up call. “As I have said before, the response to this outbreak must be an all-hands-on-deck effort. This is not just an Africa or United States problem. This is a global problem. “The United States has a first-class health care system and we will continue to take every step necessary to contain and prevent the spread of this disease and ensure the public health. But with the increased urgency of a U.S. case, our oversight efforts will play an increasingly important role, as will the efforts of all those involved in fighting the spread of Ebola. “The committee looks forward to having a hearing with top administration officials in the coming weeks to ensure we are taking every necessary step and precaution possible.” Upton also said the House Energy and Commerce Committee plans to hold a hearing on the issue in the next several weeks. Committee members have been receiving regular, bipartisan briefings from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). In addition, committee leaders have sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell seeking more information about the outbreak of Ebola and asking for information on how prepared the United States is battle the disease.
09.18.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, had the honor of introducing Jasmnika Newbern of Benton Harbor, Mich., at the Boys & Girls Clubs of America Congressional Breakfast today in the nation's capital where she recognized as “Midwest Youth of the Year.” The Benton Harbor High School graduate is the first member of her family to attend college and is now a freshman at Michigan State University where she plans to study criminal justice. Newbern was named “Michigan Youth of the Year” this spring and went on to excel at the regional competition in Chicago. As a student in Benton Harbor, Newbern helped lead an anti-bullying campaign and organized a student-led peace rally and walk against teen violence and bullying. “Jasmnika is an intelligent, determined, and inspirational young woman who has shown how one individual – even in high school – can make a real difference in their community,” said Upton, who also met with Newbern yesterday in his Washington office. “Her experience is such a powerful testament to the important role organizations like the Boys & Girls Clubs of Benton Harbor play in communities across the country.” Click here to watch Jasmnika Newbern’s acceptance speech
09.17.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, voted today for a stopgap measure (H.J.Res.124) to prevent a government shutdown and keep federal agencies operating under current FY 2014 rates until mid December. The short-term funding bill passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 319 to 108 and now awaits action in the Senate. “This bipartisan agreement ensures our government remains operational as Congress completes its work to pass line-by-line appropriations bills for the remainder of the upcoming fiscal year. I am hopeful that the Senate will follow the House’s lead and act without haste.” H.J.Res.124 keeps government operations at current levels into the new fiscal year, until December 11, 2014. The extension affords the House and Senate time to complete its work on full-year appropriations legislation for FY 2015. Upton also voted in favor of an amendment to the underlying funding bill that authorizes the Pentagon to train and equip vetted Syrian opposition groups in the battle against the terrorist organization ISIS. Offered by House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, R-Calif., the amendment was adopted by a vote of 273 to 156. “Thirteen years ago, our world was shaken as we witnessed the heinous destruction of thousands of innocent lives here on U.S. soil. We saw evil, looked it in the eye and vowed never again. The threat posed by ISIS and other radical terrorist organizations is all too real and must be eradicated. The United States does not stand alone it this effort, but we have a responsibility to lead.” The McKeon amendment does not authorize use of military force. It also ensures congressional oversight and greater transparency through reporting requirements. The provision does not authorize additional funds, but requires the President to submit a reprogramming request to Congress for existing funds.
09.16.2014	Upton: “It is tragic that the evidence was staring NHTSA in the face and the agency didn’t identify the warnings… They failed.” share: f t ​The House Energy and Commerce Committee today released a new report written by the majority staff outlining the findings of its investigation related to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) role in the delay of the General Motors (GM) ignition switch recall. The report identified a number of key failures and missed opportunities by the nation’s automobile safety regulator in analyzing and responding to data and information provided to the agency, which contributed to NHTSA’s inability to identify the safety defect. GM has recalled millions of vehicles this year for issues that have been linked to at least 19 deaths, including two teenagers from the Southwest Michigan district of Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph. Upton’s committee opened an investigation into the actions of both GM and NHTSA following the initial recall of certain Chevrolet Cobalt models due to an ignition switch defect which could cause the ignition to inadvertently move from the “run” mode and may prevent air bags from deploying in affected vehicles. The committee’s investigation, along with GM’s internal investigation conducted by Anton Valukas, revealed a series of failures by the company to identify and remedy this defect, which contributed to tragic injuries and the loss of life. But the committee’s investigation also uncovered failures and critical mistakes by NHTSA, which allowed this fatal problem to fester unresolved for over a decade. "It is tragic that the evidence was staring NHTSA in the face and the agency didn't identify the warnings. NHTSA exists not just to process what the company finds, but to dig deeper. They failed,” said Upton. “We'll keep looking for answers, and keep working toward solutions – whether it means changing our laws or pressing for change at the companies that follow them and the agencies that enforce them – but we know for sure that NHTSA was part of the problem and is going to have to be part of the solution.” As outlined in the report, the committee’s findings revealed that NHTSA had ample information to identify a potential safety defect as early as 2007, including a State Trooper report linking air bags and the ignition switch and three independent investigations commissioned by the agency involving the non-deployment of frontal airbags in the Cobalt. NHTSA failed to follow up on the information it was provided and also lacked an understanding of the advanced vehicle systems that were implemented in response to the agency’s own standards. The committee identified key problems in the agency’s practices that contributed to the failure of NHTSA to identify the safety defect, including a failure to keep pace with the industry it regulates, information silos, a culture that minimizes accountability, and a tendency to get overwhelmed or distracted by specific issues. While GM has taken some steps to fix its mistakes, it does not appear NHTSA has taken any corrective actions. The report notes “five months later, there is no evidence, at least publicly, that anything has changed at the agency. No one has been held accountable and no substantial changes have been made. NHTSA and its employees admit they made mistakes but the lack of urgency in identifying and resolving those shortcomings raises questions about the agency’s commitment to learning from this recall.” The committee’s report concludes, “The agency’s repeated failure to identify, let alone explore, the potential defect theory related to the ignition switch — even after it was spelled out in a report the agency commissioned — is inexcusable. This was compounded by NHTSA staff’s lack of knowledge and awareness regarding the evolution of vehicle safety systems they regulate. Regulators should not be held to a different standard. NHTSA’s conduct needs to reflect its mission and serve as a model to those it regulates. The agency, therefore, must be willing to hold itself accountable and learn from past mistakes.” To view the committee’s full report, click HERE. To view a list of supporting documents, click HERE.
09.16.2014	To ensure our homeland remains protected in the event of an attack, the United States must be prepared for the worst, says Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, who met today with Vice Adm. James D. Syring, the current director of the Missile Defense Agency (MDA). Sitting in his Washington, DC office, Upton made a strong case for the selection of the Fort Custer Training Center of Augusta, Mich. Fort Custer is one of four locations being considered by the MDA for a potential interceptor site capable of shielding the eastern-half of the United States against threats posed by nations like Iran and North Korea. “Southwest Michigan not only has the infrastructure, resources, and leadership, we have the strong public backing to support this critical national security mission,” said Upton, who attended a public scoping meeting hosted by the MDA at the Sherman Lake YMCA in Augusta in late August. In addition to the support of the local community, Upton noted the selection of Fort Custer has the strong endorsement of Michigan Governor Rick Snyder as well as Maj. Gen. Gregory J. Vadnais, the Adjutant General who commands the Michigan Army and Air National Guard units. “Governor Snyder and I are really pleased and appreciate the incredible support from the community and Congressman Upton to construct GBI at Fort Custer, should the decision be made to move forward,” said Maj. Gen. Vadnais. Building the missile defense system would infuse more than $3 billion into Southwest Michigan’s economy, resulting in the addition of 300 new direct jobs and as many as 1,800 indirect jobs. Upton recently submitted a letter in strong support of the selection of Fort Custer as part of the official public comment period. A copy of the letter may be found here, the full text of which follows immediately below. September 12, 2014 Black & Veatch Special Projects Corp Attn: MDA CIS EIS 6601 College Boulevard Overland Park, KS 66211-1504 To Whom It May Concern: As the Department of Defense studies potential locations for an East Coast missile defense site, I wish to express my strong support for the Fort Custer Training Center in Augusta, Michigan, as the future home of this important national security mission. Strategically located between Chicago and Detroit, the region surrounding Fort Custer boasts the robust critical infrastructure necessary to support the construction and long-term success of this mission, including surface and air transportation; energy; housing; and education. Positioned near two major interstates highways (I-94 and I-69), the location is a stone’s throw away from the 110th Airlift Wing at the W.K. Kellogg Air National Guard Base, which boasts a 10,000-foot runway capable of meeting Department of Defense needs. Presently home to the Michigan Army National Guard’s 177th Regiment, the Regional Training Institute, and the Augusta Armory, the Fort Custer Training Center is the heart of a community with a proud and longstanding history of supporting our military and its veterans. Public support for the selection of Fort Custer has been overwhelming at every level. Both our state’s Governor and Adjutant General are strong supporters and recognize the importance of this mission. The Kalamazoo County Board of Commissioners, the Calhoun County Board of Commissioners, and the Michigan State Senate (among others) have all passed resolutions formally endorsing the site, and the Michigan State House is expected to do the same. Fort Custer also has the backing of the region’s two leading economic development organizations – Southwest Michigan First and Battle Creek Unlimited – as well as the recent endorsement of the Kalamazoo Gazette – the area’s largest print and online news source. I recently attended the Missile Defense Agency’s public scoping meeting in Augusta, which was preceded by a tour of the two potential interceptor sites at the training center location. The meeting was well-planned, informative, and well-attended – MDA leadership and staff deserve to be commended for a job well done. I am one who has always recognized that providing for our national security and care of our veterans are priorities that rise above politics. I have never hesitated to stand by our Armed Forces to ensure that they have the training, resources, and funding necessary to succeed both here at home and abroad. I have also supported efforts to provide for greater collaboration with our first responders to prepare for any contingency. With growing threats from rogue states like Iran and North Korea – along with emerging threats posed by well-financed terrorist organizations like ISIS – we as a nation need to be prepared for the worst. The location of a future interceptor site is a decision that is vital to our national security and thus must be based on that above all else. That is why I am excited that we have such a top-notch site ready to go here in Southwest Michigan. I respectfully urge you to locate the next interceptor site at Fort Custer. Thank you for your time and thoughtful consideration. Sincerely, Fred Upton Member of Congress
09.12.2014	The House Energy and Commerce Committee heard this week from an all-star panel of leaders in the health industry as part of the committee’s bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative. Launched this spring by Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, 21st Century Cures is taking the first-ever comprehensive look at how treatments are discovered, developed, and delivered here in the United States. By listening to experts from around the country, Upton can help determine how to best accelerate that process. By making sure federal policy keeps pace with advances in science and technology, we can get life-saving therapies and cures to patients faster while also keeping America the medical innovation capital of the world. “The 21st Century Cures initiative affects every American as they, their families, or their friends have been affected by disease,” began Upton. Among those sharing their expertise with lawmakers was the head of Mattawan, Mich.-based scientific research company MPI Research. William Parfet spoke about the need for collaboration between innovators in the private sector and government regulators to advance technologies and treatments at greater speeds and reduced costs. “It’s so hard for regulations to keep pace. It’s so hard for regulations to really help allow for new innovative methods to be tested and used,” said Parfet, who is chairman and chief executive officer of the privately held firm. Parfet was joined on the impressive panel by the Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Burwell; National Institutes of Health (NIH) Director Francis Collins; Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Margaret Hamburg; philanthropist Michael Milken; renowned inventor Dean Kamen; and Dr. Dan Theodorescu, director of the University of Colorado Cancer Center. “This really has been a collaborative effort, and we need everyone to continue providing us with specific ideas – none too big, none too small – about how we can make a significant reduction in the time and costs associated with the discovery, development, and delivery of safe and innovative new treatments and cures for patients who need them,” said Upton. Members of the public may continue to submit ideas via cures@mail.house.gov. The public is also encouraged to join the conversation on Facebook and Twitter using the hashtag #Path2Cures. Click here to watch this week’s roundtable Click here to learn more about 21st Century Cures
09.10.2014	Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s evening address to the nation on countering the terrorist organization ISIS. Upton joined fellow House Republican leaders earlier today for an hour-long closed-door briefing on ISIS and the evolving situations in Iraq and Syria. “ISIS poses a very serious and credible threat to the world and here at home. There is no question that we must destroy that radical threat before its terrors reach our shores. The United States should be part of a broad coalition of forces to get that job done, and I look forward to hearing the specific details of such a strategy in the days ahead.”
09.09.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today supported a bipartisan resolution (H.Res.644) condemning the Obama administration for its failure to properly notify Congress before releasing five senior Taliban members from the U.S. Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in exchange for the release of U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl. The non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) – the federal government’s independent internal watchdog agency – found the action to be in violation of U.S. law, which requires Congress to be notified at least 30 days in advance of such a transfer. H.Res.644 passed by a vote of 249 to 163. “The administration broke the law, and in doing so deprived Congress of its responsibility to consider the sequences to our national security. The lack of accountability and regard for the law is appalling,” said Upton. “Time and again we have seen former captives return to the field of battle to take up arms against the United States and our allies. The five prisoners released in May were not casual observers; they were the ones the Taliban wanted back.” On May 31, 2014, the U.S. Department of Defense released the five detainees from Guantanamo Bay to the State of Qatar, which brokered the exchange between the United States and the Taliban. Pursuant to the agreement, these five individuals are to remain in Qatar for one year. Each of these detainees was a senior Taliban leader who previously had associations with al-Qaeda or had engaged in hostilities against the United States or its coalition partners. In 2010, the Obama administration undertook an evaluation of the detainees at Guantanamo Bay to determine those who could be transferred. The evaluation concluded that the five men involved in the Bergdahl exchange were too dangerous to transfer. While the Obama administration failed to properly notify relevant congressional leaders and committees of the exchange, approximately 80 to 90 administration officials and an unknown number of Qatari officials received notification prior to the transfer. The GAO also found the administration to be in violation of the Antideficiency Act for spending nearly $1 million in excess of available appropriations to facilitate the transfer.
09.04.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, announced the opening of his newly relocated constituent service office in St. Joseph/Benton Harbor. The office has moved half a mile from its former Ship Street location to 720 Main St. in St. Joseph. The office’s telephone and fax machine numbers remain the same. “One of my most important responsibilities as a Member of Congress is providing assistance to individuals who are facing difficulties in dealing with the federal government,” said Upton. “Whether you are a veteran trying to access your benefits or obtain overdue service medals, a senior with questions about their Medicare or Social Security, or a family awaiting their passports before that big vacation, our well-trained team stands ready to assist. Our door is always open and we look forward to serving you.” Upton represents Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District, which encompasses all of Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, and Van Buren counties as well as most of Allegan County. Upton operates two full-time constituent service offices that provide vital assistance and resources to Southwest Michigan residents and businesses in dealing with the federal government. Upton’s second service office is located in downtown Kalamazoo, Mich. Updated Office Contact Information St. Joseph/Benton Harbor (NEW LOCATION) 720 Main Street St. Joseph, MI 49085 (269) 982-1986 (269) 982-0237 (f) Kalamazoo 157 South Kalamazoo Mall Suite 180 Kalamazoo, MI 49071 (269) 385-0039 (269) 385-2888 (f) Washington, DC 2183 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-3761 (202) 225-4986 (f)
09.04.2014	Russian incursions in Ukraine and heightening tensions in Eastern Europe dominated today’s NATO summit in Newport, Wales, where President Obama met with other alliance leaders. Those topics were also at the forefront this evening at the Latvian Heritage Center in Kalamazoo as Congressman Fred Upton met with more than 60 local community members of Baltic descent. “Seventy-five years ago, Soviet occupation of the Baltics resulted in the displacement, imprisonment, and death of thousands while their homelands were resettled. We will not stand idly by and watch as history repeats itself,” said Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “The United States must stand firmly behind our Baltic and Ukrainian allies in the face of Russian aggression.” To support our allies and bring greater stability to the region, Upton pointed to the United States’ growing supplies of oil and natural gas as a powerful diplomatic tool. “Russia has chosen to use its resources as a force of extortion – we have the opportunity to use ours as a force for the global good. By supporting policies that embrace our newfound energy abundance, the United States can support job creation, bolster manufacturing, and take care of its own energy needs, and still have enough to provide relief for our Eastern European allies.” Speaking yesterday in Estonia, President Obama also condemned Russian President Vladimir Putin’s continued aggression against Ukraine, and committed to helping Ukraine diversify its energy sources, stating, “No country should ever be held hostage to another nation that wields energy like a weapon.” The U.S. House of Representatives is taking meaningful action to make that rhetoric a reality. On June 25, 2014, the House approved H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act, with strong bipartisan support. The legislation would help expedite the U.S. Department of Energy’s approval of U.S. liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports and end the unnecessary bureaucratic delays blocking the shipment of gas to our allies abroad. The legislation provides a commonsense solution to help diversify Europe’s energy sources and will help loosen Russia’s grip on this region of the world. But despite the urgency for action and the overwhelming support for the measure, the Senate has refused to bring the bill to a vote.
09.03.2014	Local Alzheimer’s advocates share their personal stories with Rep. Upton, who earlier this year launched his 21st Century Cures initiative share: f t The 21st century should offer the promise of using present-day methods of finding – and approving – medical drugs and devices, rather than being mired in 50-year-old practices, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, told a group of Alzheimer’s Association advocates. “There is no reason we should be using methodology from half a century ago instead of harnessing the technology available to us today,” he said during a meeting with invited caregivers and patient family members to discuss Alzheimer’s and other dementia diseases at The Beacon Club in Portage. “The personal stories are tragically real and impact virtually every one of us in one form or another – whether it is a parent, spouse, or other loved one.” This, Upton said, is part of the reason why his bipartisan 21st Century Cures initiative is in the midst of a months-long listening session, talking with researchers and regulators around the country on how to develop a faster and safer way to bring about development and approval of pharmaceuticals and medical devices in the United States. Listening to those with personal experience of working and living with those with Alzheimer’s and other dementia is another spoke in the wheel of what drives his efforts, said Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Alzheimer’s is a challenging disease,” Upton said. “There is no cure and its impact on friends and family is difficult and devastating. This is one of dozens of illnesses and diseases that impacts families across the nation. “We all need to have the best possible treatments – pharmaceuticals, procedures or devices – available to us and our families in the shortest amount of time possible in order to make sure we, or our loved ones, can benefit from them,” Upton said. Alzheimer’s is the most expensive disease in the United States, costing $214 billion in 2014, said Lindsay Brieschke, director of public policy for the Alzheimer’s Association Michigan Chapters. The cost is on target to reach $1.2 trillion by the mid-century. “It is critically important that our elected officials understand its impact on Michigan residents,” Brieschke said, adding that she was happy for a chance to discuss the impact with Upton. “This (21st Century Cures) initiative has the potential to influence the future of Alzheimer’s and we are thrilled to see Congressman Upton’s support,” she said. Click here to learn more about 21st Century Cures
08.28.2014	If a rogue nation like Iran or North Korea can send a long-range ballistic missile to hit the Eastern portion of the United States, the country should have a system in place to defend itself, says Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph. The U.S. Department of Defense, through its Missile Defense Agency, is considering the Fort Custer Training Center in Kalamazoo and Calhoun counties as one of four possible locations to place an interceptor site capable of shielding the United States from such an attack. Upton strongly backs the local location as his choice, he said Thursday during the public scooping meeting at The Great Hall at the Sherman Lake YMCA in Augusta. “Look, the technology exists for rogue nations – and well-funded terrorist organizations like ISIS -- to send a ballistic missile to try to knock out the Eastern Seaboard and other parts of the United States,” says Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “It’s not a question of if the Iranians or North Koreans will acquire such capabilities it’s a matter of when. But fortunately, we have the technology to knock that missile out of the sky. For such a critical national security mission, where better than Fort Custer? “We’re talking about an investment of more than $3 billion dollars that could provide 300 full-time jobs and 1,800 project jobs during the life of construction that could go on for several years. In addition, having the Missile Defense Agency here would help secure Fort Custer’s place in the military hierarchy.” The Fort Custer Training Center straddles the Kalamazoo and Calhoun county lines, which falls in part of Upton’s district. The Thursday night public meeting was to inform area residents of the potential project and review the scope of the environmental impact statement if the interceptor site is to be located at Fort Custer. Upton personally toured the two potential deployment sites at Fort Custer before attending the evening’s public meeting. “No doubt the folks at the Missile Defense Agency have been impressed by what they’ve seen here in Southwest Michigan and the warm welcome they’ve received. Fort Custer has a lot to offer in the way of being able to accommodate the requirements of ground-based defense system,” Upton said. “What’s more, our region comes readily equipped with the infrastructure – transportation, energy, housing, you name it – that a project of this magnitude requires.” Three other sites are under consideration in Maine, Ohio and New York state. While the Department of Defense has not made a decision to construct continental interceptor site, the Missile Defense Agency has been asked by Congress to investigate each site. “I’m sure the local and state governments are going to be able to work out what is necessary to try to bring this to Fort Custer,” Upton said. “Gov. Snyder is on record backing it. It’s going to bring good jobs to the area and a sense of peace the country. “The program should be located here.”
08.15.2014	In the aftermath of the 9-11 terrorist attacks, when first responders learned they couldn’t communicate with one another on their radios because agencies used different frequencies, the Federal Communications Commission began work to provide a national public safety communications network. It was “a critical recommendation” from the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (The 9-11 Commission) to “have interoperability among first responders,” said Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, during a press conference Friday with FCC Commissioner Ajit Pai. “This is of the utmost importance to the safety and well-being of our first responders, not just here in Southwest Michigan but throughout the country,” said Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over communication and technology issues. Upton and Pai met with a dozen representatives of law enforcement agencies throughout the Sixth Congressional District and the director of Michigan’s Public Safety Communications System to talk about the First Responder Network Authority (FirstNet), its benefits and challenges. FirstNet grew from passage of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012. It calls for using a portion of the proceeds from commercial spectrum auctions to fund FirstNet and its mission to provide nationwide broadband communications for first responders. “No one wants this to fail,” Upton said of the sale. Pai agreed. “This will be the first time something like this has been done,” he said. “It is complicated. “But, hopefully, with the guidance of public safety officials, we can deliver. I know I will take what I have learned today from my meeting here to heart and let officials in Washington know how this affects people on the ground, those actually using the system as it is today.” Kalamazoo Township Police Chief Tim Bourgeois lauded Upton and Pai for listening to local law enforcement leaders about concerns they have as FirstNet rolls out. “Fred’s been great to work with on this issue and it’s helped make Michigan a leader in this area. The fact the commissioner came and met with us says volumes about his commitment to get it right,” Bourgeois said. Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety Deputy Chief Karianne Thomas added: “As we look to the future, these are the types of innovations the next generation of public safety officers are going to need in order to do their jobs. We have to give them the right tools.”
07.22.2014	The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation this evening to boost travel and tourism in Southwest Michigan and communities across the country. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, has been a strong supporter of the bill – H.R. 4450, the Travel Promotion, Enhancement, and Modernization Act of 2014 – which reauthorizes Brand USA, a non-profit, private-public partnership dedicated to increasing inbound international travel to the United States. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that enacting H.R. 4450 would reduce the federal deficit by $231 million during the next decade. The bill, which was approved by Upton’s committee last week by a voice vote and today by a vote of 347 to 57, now awaits consideration in the U.S. Senate. Upton took part in a Michigan Tourism Roundtable discussion in South Haven, Mich., earlier this month to highlight the importance of the travel and tourism industry to Southwest Michigan’s economy, as well as to point to the tremendous potential to grow this industry by attracting more overseas visitors. Tourists in the six counties (Allegan, Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, and Van Buren) that make up the Sixth Congressional District in 2012 spent $977.8 million, which supported 9,323 jobs and a $203.2 million payroll, according to the U.S. Travel Association. Upton spoke on the House Floor today in strong support of H.R. 4450. The full text of his remarks as prepared for delivery follows: Thank you, Mr. Speaker. The Travel Promotion, Enhancement, and Modernization Act of 2014 is an important bill that will boost jobs and the economy by promoting the U.S. as a world-class travel destination. The bill reauthorizes Brand USA and increases program accountability and transparency. In 2013, Brand USA generated an additional 1.1 million visitors to the U.S. and $3.4 billion in additional spending at U.S. businesses. This increase in spending triggered the creation of more than 53,000 American jobs and $2.2 billion in payroll. Brand USA delivers all of these benefits to the U.S. economy at no cost to the American taxpayers. Earlier this month, I held a roundtable in my district to discuss the tremendous benefits that tourism and this program contribute to the Southwest Michigan economy. The benefits, just in Southwest Michigan, are impressive with nearly $1 billion in spending supporting over 9,300 jobs and $200 million in payroll annually. I would like to thank Mr. Bilirakis and Mr. Welch for their leadership in spearheading this bipartisan bill and Mr. Terry for moving this bill through the Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee. I urge all my colleagues to support this important jobs bill. Thank you, Mr. Speaker and I yield back the balance of my time.
07.21.2014	“You don’t have to look any further than small businesses in Kalamazoo to see firsthand how the Internet is opening up new possibilities for entrepreneurs and consumers alike.” - Rep. Fred Upton share: f t ​ Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, along with representatives from Google, Facebook, and other members of The Internet Association, on Monday toured four companies using the Internet to spread the word about their businesses and increase sales. “The Internet is empowering innovation, investment and job creation along Main Street USA in cities and towns across the country,” said Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “You don’t have to look any further than small businesses in Kalamazoo to see firsthand how the Internet is opening up new possibilities for entrepreneurs and consumers alike.” Job creation and economic growth in Southwest Michigan are among Upton’s top priorities. During stops at The Organic Gypsy food truck, 200 S. Rose St.; Amy Zane: Store & Studio, 132 S. Kalamazoo Mall; The Station, 169 Portage St.; and Bell’s Brewery, 355 E. Michigan Ave., owners gave an overview of their business, how they started, and harnessing the power of social media helped them reach a larger customer base than they could have through traditional means. “I don’t use any print ads or marketing. And because I change menus depending on what I can get from farmers, I update menus, times, and locations every day. The Internet lets me do that easily,” said Bridgett Blough, owner and chef of The Organic Gypsy food truck. “Companies that use the Internet as an innovative tool grow 40 percent faster and are twice as likely to create jobs,” said Michael Beckerman, president and chief executive officer of The Internet Association, who led the tour. “Small businesses are the backbone of the American economy, accounting for half of all goods and services sold nationwide and two-thirds of all jobs created.” Local business officials toured the firms along with Upton and Beckerman. In addition, representatives from members of The Internet Association, including AOL, Groupon, and Yelp, were also on hand.
07.16.2014	U.S. Representative Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today voted for legislation – H.R. 5016, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2015 – to hold the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) accountable for its actions against American taxpayers. Overall, this legislation reduces funding for the IRS by $1.48 billion compared to the previous fiscal year, and includes a number of provisions to stop the agency’s targeting of individuals based on their political beliefs. H.R. 5016 is the seventh appropriations bill passed by the House of Representatives this year (the Senate has yet to pass one) and was approved by a vote of 228 to 195. “Congress has a responsibility to hold accountable those who mismanage taxpayer dollars and abuse the authority with which they have been entrusted,” said Upton. “The IRS is an agency plagued by reckless abuse and an unwillingness to be forthright with the American people and their elected representatives. This legislation provides the IRS with the necessary funding to perform its essential duties, but forces the agency to tighten its belt and refocus on serving the American people.” Among the provisions in H.R. 5016: A prohibition on a proposed regulation related to political activities and the tax-exempt status of 501(c)(4) organizations. The proposed regulation could jeopardize the tax-exempt status of many non-profit organizations and inhibit citizens from exercising their right to freedom of speech, simply because they may be involved in political activity. A prohibition on funds for bonuses or awards unless employee conduct and tax compliance is given consideration. A prohibition on funds for the IRS to target groups for regulatory scrutiny based on their ideological beliefs. A prohibition on funds for the IRS to target individuals for exercising their First Amendment rights. A prohibition on funding for the production of inappropriate videos and conferences. A prohibition on funding for the White House to order the IRS to determine the tax-exempt status of an organization. A requirement for extensive reporting on IRS spending. A funding prohibition on destroying IRS records in contravention with the Federal Records Act. Upton joined fellow House Members this May in voting to hold former IRS official Lois Lerner in contempt of Congress for refusing to comply with a congressional subpoena to provide testimony regarding the agency’s targeting of conservative organizations seeking tax-exempt status.
07.15.2014	Speaking last week at a Michigan Tourism Roundtable discussion in South Haven, Mich., House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, underscored the importance of the travel and tourism sector to Southwest Michigan’s economy and pointed to the tremendous potential to grow this industry by attracting more visitors from overseas. Today, Upton’s Committee approved H.R. 4450, the Travel Promotion, Enhancement, and Modernization Act of 2014, to reauthorize Brand USA, which is dedicated to increasing inbound international travel to the United States. The bill passed by voice vote and now awaits consideration before the full House of Representatives. “The tourism industry brings roughly a billion dollars to Southwest Michigan every year and supports thousands of local jobs. We must do what it takes to ensure that this major pillar of our economy continues to thrive,” said Upton. “Domestic travelers account for the largest portion of travel spending in the United States, but when you consider that 95 percent of the world’s consumers live overseas, you realize the tremendous potential to further grow our travel and tourism industry. Extending Brand USA will help market the United States as a world-class destination, and continue to attract visitors and economic growth to local communities here in Michigan.” Today’s legislation was praised by Travel Michigan, which took part in last week’s South Haven roundtable. Travel Michigan is a part of the Michigan Economic Development Corporation (MEDC), the state’s marketing arm and business development advocate. “Our partnership with Brand USA allows Michigan and our local communities an affordable way to stand out and be noticed,” said Dave Lorenz of Travel Michigan. “Their innovative marketing techniques give us a chance to enhance our image as a world-class destination with friendly people, authentic destinations and awe-inspiring natural surroundings.” Tourists in the six counties (Allegan, Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, and Van Buren) that make up the Sixth Congressional District in 2012 spent $977.8 million, which supported 9,323 jobs and a $203.2 million payroll, according to the U.S. Travel Association. Numbers for the state were $16.8 billion for the same year, supporting 144,400 jobs with a $3.8 billion payroll. Launched in 2010 under the Travel Promotion Act (TPA), Brand USA is a non-profit, private-public partnership that assists in financing an international advertising campaign for the United States as a travel destination. Unlike other major travel destinations, the United States’ campaign effort is co-funded by international visitors and contributions from the private sector, not by the taxpayers. Under Brand USA, a $10 fee is assessed once every two years on visa-free international visitors who enter the United States under the Department of Homeland Security’s Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA). This federal contribution is capped at $100 million a year and requires a matching contribution from the U.S. tourism industry. Under current law, TPA and Brand USA will expire on September 30, 2015. H.R. 4450 would extend these efforts through September 30, 2020.
07.15.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today addressed the Energy Information Administration (EIA) 2014 Energy Conference to share his new vision for America’s energy policy – the Architecture of Abundance. Upton outlined the five pillars needed to construct this new architecture: modernizing infrastructure, maintaining diverse electricity generation, permitting a new manufacturing renaissance, harnessing energy efficiency and innovation, and unleashing energy diplomacy. He described a number of steps the House has already taken toward constructing a 21st century energy policy, and expressed optimism for the future in achieving bipartisan success. Remarks As Prepared Thank you so much – happy to be here talking about one of the most exciting public policy issues in America: our energy abundance. Let me begin by telling you a little bit about my M.O. as chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. I got my start working in the Reagan administration where I learned it does not matter who gets the credit, as long as the job gets done. That’s how I operate my committee – every good idea is welcome, and we do better when we work together. We have plenty of bipartisan success to show for it. In the 112th Congress, 88 Energy and Commerce bills passed the House, and 40 of them were signed into law. In the 113th Congress, 62 Energy and Commerce bills passed the House, and 15 have been signed into law. And we’re heading into the homestretch. All but a few of these bills we’ve moved have had bipartisan support. It’s no secret that I’ve been disappointed by the Senate’s failure to follow our lead and get many more bills signed into law – especially on energy. I’m going to keep on reaching out, welcoming new ideas, and working to get the job done – and today, we’re going to talk about how we can get that job done, particularly when it comes to energy. I am often asked about America’s energy policy. Do we have one? Is it time to change? I’d like to share my vision for what America’s energy policy is today, and what it ought to be tomorrow. But first, let’s remember our energy past. Perhaps you remember hearing these words: “The oil and natural gas we rely on for 75 percent of our energy are running out. In spite of increased effort, domestic production has been dropping steadily at about six percent a year. Imports have doubled in the last five years. Our nation’s independence of economic and political action is becoming increasingly constrained.” Those words were spoken by President Carter in 1977. He predicted that we could lose our nation’s economic independence. But earlier this month, as we celebrated America’s independence on the 4th of July, we welcomed the real prospect for energy independence with news that by some estimates, the U.S. is now the world’s biggest oil producer, surpassing Saudi Arabia and Russia. In fact, we have more energy than any other nation and according to EIA, we produced enough energy in 2013 to meet 84 percent of the country’s demand – a remarkable turnaround from 2005, when we hit a low of just 65 percent. You heard yesterday from Daniel Yergin about the vast potential for American energy production and the resulting economic investment and growth. It’s a new era of energy abundance, and we need to usher in a new era for energy policy. I call it the “Architecture of Abundance.” Here’s what I mean: we need to construct a whole range of tools to take full advantage of our energy abundance – we need to better connect these resources to the people who need them. And we need to do it in a safe and responsible way that protects the environment. It’s about building infrastructure, yes, but it’s about much more. Our new energy vision can be understood as five distinct but clearly related policy concepts –the five “pillars” to construct this new architecture. Pillar I: Modernizing Infrastructure First, let’s look at energy transmission and distribution. It’s time to modernize and update our energy distribution infrastructure. This will allow us to keep up with burgeoning supplies and better connect new sources of energy with all American consumers. We can do this with targeted changes to federal laws that provide certainty, predictability and fairness – in other words, we’ll take politics and obstruction out of siting new energy infrastructure and bring back accountability to pipeline permitting agencies. We have already started – let me give you some examples. We’ve already passed H.R. 3, a bill that would finally approve the Keystone XL pipeline. We’ve also already passed H.R. 3301, a bill I wrote with Democratic Representative Gene Green from Texas to make sure energy projects with our North American neighbors are never again caught in Keystone-style gridlock. And we’ve also passed H.R. 1900, a bill to restore predictability to natural gas pipeline permitting by setting shot clocks and clear processes for project review and approval. Building new energy infrastructure is essential, and there is much more work to be done. Pillar II: Maintaining Diverse Electricity Generation Our second pillar is diverse electricity generation. We all need and reliable power, and everyone – families, schools, businesses, hospitals, manufacturers – everyone benefits when it costs less to keep the lights on. That’s why we’re so concerned about the administration’s aggressive approach to limit and undermine critical baseload sources of generation like coal and nuclear. We’re going to continue to press for answers on how EPA and the states plan to implement the new climate rules. We can also support a diverse portfolio by enacting targeted changes to federal laws to make sure all sources of electricity generation can compete in the market. We have begun offering ideas in this area as well – let me give you some examples. We’ve already passed H.R. 3826, a bill to make sure EPA’s new power plant rules are achievable in the real world, and to put Congress back in the driver’s seat on the rule for existing plants. In the last Congress and again in this one, we’ve approved H.R. 2218, a bill to put a more sensible, state-based regulatory system in place for coal ash recycling and management, and we’re also going to keep pressing the administration to follow the law when it comes to nuclear waste. Again, these bills are just the starting point when it comes to our electricity supply. Pillar III: Permitting a Manufacturing Renaissance Our third pillar has to do with permitting – not just for energy projects, but for manufacturing. Manufacturers and other energy intensive industries need the confidence to make multi-billion dollar, long-term investments – including new foreign direct investment – in this country. To do that, we should make it easier to plan for new or changing regulatory requirements. One example of a bill to improve the permitting process and welcome this new manufacturing renaissance is a bill that cleared our committee just last month. H.R. 4795, the Promoting New Manufacturing Act, is pretty simple – it would increase transparency and require timely rules and guidance for certain air permits. This is another area ripe for future action with new challenges from GHG permitting and ozone on the horizon. Pillar IV: Harnessing Energy Efficiency and Innovation Our fourth pillar is about energy innovation and efficiency. Energy efficiency is just common sense – it saves money and resources, and we know it can be done through private-sector led innovation and without having to limit consumer choices. That means prioritizing efficiency legislation that helps to save taxpayer dollars with no costs or mandates. It also means updating laws that haven’t adapted to today’s new energy realities, like the renewable fuel standard. This is one area where we have already had quite a bit of success. Back in March, the House approved H.R. 2126, the Energy Efficiency Improvement Act. That bill included four separate energy efficiency measures, including the Better Buildings Act to establish a Tenant Star program, which builds on the original Energy Star initiative to encourage commercial tenants and landlords to work together on highly efficient leased spaces. We’ve passed other efficiency measures as well, including energy efficiency in schools, energy efficiency in federal buildings, and bills to promote hydropower. And there will definitely be more to come. Pillar V: Unleashing Energy Diplomacy Our fifth and final pillar is energy diplomacy. Let’s face it, energy is a global commodity, and those who have the energy have the power. We’re seeing this play out in real time with Russia, and we know how chaos in the Middle East affects us here at home. We have an opportunity to use our energy as a diplomatic tool; we can take care of our domestic needs and have enough energy left to let our allies buy it from us, rather than being held hostage to unstable regions of the world. That means making sure our current laws are not creating artificial barriers to the market and conducting oversight to ensure increased exports do no harm to American consumers. Let me give you an example of how we can use energy as a diplomatic tool. We recently passed H.R. 6, a bill that will speed up the approval of natural gas export applications at the Department of Energy and improve the process going forward. More than two dozen export applications are pending at DOE, and some have been waiting for more than two years. Even DOE says we have enough natural gas to meet our needs here at home and support our allies around the world. Our work will continue next year as we conduct oversight of oil, coal, nuclear and renewable technology exports as well. A Resilient Foundation Those five pillars make up the architecture, and they can be built on a foundation of modern tools to meet modern challenges. Let me give you a couple of examples: as we look at our energy infrastructure, we can make sure it is resilient to climate risks and that it can prevent and withstand emerging threats such as cyber and physical attacks. The climate is an issue that often comes up when we talk about energy policy, and I agree that it ought to be part of our conversation. One thing we should all be able to agree on is that storms are becoming more destructive because more people and property stand in their way. We do need energy infrastructure that is resilient to weather events; what we don’t need is a climate policy that will hamstring our economy and make energy more expensive, all without actually changing the climate. So what are some specific steps we can take to accomplish this? We can work with state and local officials to enact a pro-infrastructure agenda. And we can build safer and more resilient pipelines and transmission lines to help respond to weather emergencies. Potential Benefits Those five pillars, that’s the energy vision – now let’s talk about why we need it. America has a lot to gain if we put the right energy policies into place: jobs and economic growth, cheaper energy and products for the middle class and particularly for the most vulnerable, and a stronger position in the world. So let’s conclude by returning to where this conversation began: American energy policy. America’s energy policy today includes some good ideas, and some not so good ideas – but mostly, it reflects the sheer power of American ingenuity to overcome obstacles and develop new technologies that will allow us to make the most of our resources. America’s energy policy in the future needs to do better. Ingenuity, innovation, and technology have unlocked these resources, but we need infrastructure, regulatory structure, and a global vision to take full advantage of them. All of these elements, together, in a broad energy vision: it’s the Architecture of Abundance. A Bright Future Things looked different when I first came to D.C. – a different majority in Congress, and certainly very different ideas about energy policy. Think about it. Back then, our energy policy was based on an assumption of scarcity – a belief that we were literally running out of oil and gas. That belief turned out to be wrong. We now can talk about North American energy independence, not reliance on oil sheiks and petro dictators. We have a chance to bring real benefits and security to hard working Americans. For as long as I have been here, I have believed that no matter which party was in charge, lawmakers from different backgrounds with different ideas could come together to get things done. I still believe that today. I believe this is our moment. I believe we can work together to improve people’s lives. And I believe energy is a place where we can do it. We can and we will enact these policies to build the Architecture of Abundance. Yes, we need willing partners in the Senate and the White House, and I believe that come next year, the time will be right to get these policies moving. The great economic news coming from energy-producing states is going to increase awareness of these issues, and I’m convinced the American people are going to expect us to act. If the pundits are right, then Republicans are going to have an opportunity, and we’re going to have to prove we can govern. I’m excited about the possibilities.
07.15.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today voted for a bipartisan agreement – H.R. 5021, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 – to ensure federal highway and mass transit projects continue to receive adequate funding through May 2015. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reports that without congressional action the Highway Trust Fund will be depleted by August, bringing important transportation projects across the country to an immediate halt. H.R. 5021 also reauthorizes federal highway and other surface transportation programs that are scheduled to expire on September 30. H.R. 5021 passed by a bipartisan vote of 367 to 55 and now awaits action in the Senate. “These critical investments in our highway infrastructure not only support good Michigan jobs, they set the groundwork for future economic growth, trade, and job creation in our region,” said Upton. “Ensuring the Trust Fund remains solvent is necessary to keep our roads safe for motorists and commercial traffic alike. Congress and the White House must now work together in a bipartisan fashion to find a long-term, sustainable funding mechanism to modernize our crumbling infrastructure.” H.R. 5021 includes three major provisions to stop the looming Highway Trust Fund shortfall in a budget-neutral manner, without increase taxes: (1) Pension Smoothing ($6.4 billion) - Employers are required to make certain payments to their pension plans based on an average interest rate. When interest rates remain low for an extended period of time – as they are right now – it costs employers more money. This provision provides employers relief from artificially low interest rates; (2) Customs User Fees ($3.5 billion) - Under current law, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to collect passenger and conveyance processing fees and merchandise processing fee. The current authorization expires after September 30, 2023. The bill would extend the authorized period for 1 year; (3) Leaking Underground Storage Tanks (LUST) ($1 billion) - The LUST Trust Fund is financed by a 0.1-cent-per-gallon gas tax and is used to pay expenses incurred by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and States for preventing, detecting, and cleaning up leaks from underground petroleum storage tanks. It currently has a balance of more than $1.4 billion and is expected to continue to grow.
07.09.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, voted today for bipartisan legislation to strengthen and streamline the current system of federal workforce development services in order to better serve the nation’s job seekers, employers, and states. The agreement reached by House and Senate negotiators – H.R. 803, the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) – embodies key principles of the House-passed SKILLS Act and combines a modern reauthorization of the Workforce Investment Act. H.R. 803 passed by a vote of 415 to 6 and now heads to the President’s desk. “While we have made much progress to put our economy back on track, the fact remains that millions of Americans continue to struggle to find work,” said Upton. “And while U.S. taxpayers spend billions of dollars each year on a myriad of federal job-training programs, countless positions remain unfilled as workers are not acquiring the critical skills needed to fill in-demand jobs. This bipartisan agreement helps folks acquire the training and skills they need to get back to work and grow our economy.” WIOA streamlines the confusing web of job-training programs by eliminating 15 ineffective and duplicative workforce programs, the first time that such action has been taken in more than a decade. The legislation establishes common accountability measures for core national programs. Success will now be measured by tracking the number of participants entering and retaining employment, rather than simply counting the numbers enrolled in training programs. WIOA also repeals a dozen federal requirements governing state and local workforce development boards, enabling these important decision-making bodies to more easily address the job-training needs and priorities of their local communities. WIOA’s commonsense reforms and added flexibility has been widely praised by our nation’s governors and community workforce development organizations. “WIOA supports what we’ve tried to do locally for years; it streamlines services and allows for the flexibility to strategically meet the needs of the region’s employers,” said Todd Gustafson, executive director of Kinexus, which administers Michigan Works! through its workforce development division. Gustafson testified last year before the House Committee on Education and the Workforce in favor of the reforms sought by the SKILLS Act. H.R. 803 also provides better coordination of training services by enabling businesses to identify in-demand skills and connect workers with the opportunities to build those skills. Under current bureaucratic requirements, many community colleges and other training providers have been forced out of the system – WIOA fixes that by allowing states to determine eligibility for job-training providers. The bipartisan legislation also permits local areas to contract directly with community colleges and other institutions of higher education to provide specialized group training programs for employers who need to hire several skilled workers. The legislation also provides improved outreached to individuals with unique barriers to finding employment, such as at-risk youth, low-income workers, and individuals with disabilities.
07.08.2014	U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today released a report on the accomplishments of the committee in the first six months of 2014. The mid-year review continues the tradition of status reports issued throughout the tenure of Chairman Upton on the committee’s legislative and oversight work under the current Republican majority. The updates are part of the committee’s effort to increase transparency and ensure the public has easy and ready access to the panel’s work. Upon releasing the report, Upton commented, “We have a proud record of bipartisan results thus far in 2014. But our work continues as we advance our three primary goals of promoting job creation and economic growth, transforming Washington to create a smaller, modernized government for the innovation era, and protecting families, communities, and civic initiatives.” The mid-year report highlights the work done by the Energy and Commerce Committee’s six subcommittees in 2014, outlining each subcommittee’s key hearings and initiatives to promote jobs, modernize government, and protect families and communities. The report also highlights key legislation advanced by the committee in 2014. Underscoring Upton’s commitment to interactive and transparent policymaking, the report concludes, “The committee continues to prioritize an open, collaborative approach to legislating, inviting the American people to participate through white papers, social media, and events convened by members in districts around the country. Whether it’s through the #CommActUpdate process, the 21st Century Cures initiative, the work to build the Architecture of Abundance, or any of the other major initiatives undertaken by the committee, members of the Energy and Commerce Committee are committed to working with – and on behalf of – the American people to make the most of our nation’s promise now and into the future.” Read the Energy and Commerce Committee’s 2014 mid-session report HERE.
07.07.2014	Travel and tourism are among the top industries in the state – along with agriculture and manufacturing – and we all need to do our best here in Southwest Michigan and throughout the Great Lakes State to promote it, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, said during the Michigan Tourism Roundtable discussion Monday with state officials and tourism association representatives. “We have some of the best beaches and amenities – world-class hotels and golf courses – right here in Southwest Michigan. Each year, thousands are drawn by our lighthouses and museums, and tour the local wineries and breweries that dot our region,” said Upton, who serves as Chairman of the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee. “We need to let folks know around the world that there are beaches in the middle of the United States, not just on the East and West coasts. If we could tap into that audience, it could increase the number of tourism jobs – good-paying, local jobs – as well as bring in more dollars to the local and state economy.” Tourists in the six counties (Allegan, Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph and Van Buren) that make up the Sixth Congressional District in 2012 spent $977.8 million, which supported 9,323 jobs and a $203.2 million payroll, according to the U.S. Travel Association. Numbers for the state were $16.8 billion for the same year, supporting 144,400 jobs with a $3.8 billion payroll. Congress is working to help national tourism through a variety of measures, Upton said. The House passed the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) to modernize the national water transportation infrastructure by a 412 to 4 vote. The Senate passed it 91 to 7 and the President signed it into law on June 10. In part, WRRDA mandates that at least 10 percent of Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund dollars be spent on small ports such as South Haven. In addition, a bill Upton supported to designate the Great Lakes Navigation System as a single system for budgetary purposes, was included in WRRDA to allow all Great Lakes harbors to compete for funding as one unit rather than individually against coastal ports. In addition to improving the Great Lakes, they must be protected, Upton said. Asian carp and other invasive species are a real threat to Michigan’s thriving fishing and tourism sectors. “This is something all of us – local, state and federal officials – need to work on and work together to keep Asian carp out of the Great Lakes,” Upton said. “It’s got to be an all-hands-on-deck effort. My office is staying in communication with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Governor’s office, and other Great Lakes delegation leaders to make sure we’re doing everything we can from keeping these critters from getting into the Great Lakes.” The Travel Promotion Act, passed by Congress and signed by the President in 2010, created Brand USA to promote tourism in the United States through a public-private partnership and we are looking to extend this program past its September 2015 deadline, Upton said. “As I was traveling around the district last week I just kept thinking, ‘Man, if people could just be here right now. The weather’s been wonderful. The lake is warming up. The sand is so nice,’” Upton said. “People don’t know what they’re missing. We have to let them know.”
07.03.2014	"When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another, and to assume among the powers of the earth, the separate and equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causes which impel them to the separation. "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." - Declaration of Independence share: f t This Friday, we join together with family, friends, and neighbors in celebration of Independence Day and the enduring power of the principles upon which our great nation was founded: “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.” It is a time for celebration and partaking in time-honored American traditions with our loved ones – watching the community parade, spending an afternoon at the ballpark, relaxing at the lake, barbequing in the backyard, or sitting on a blanket under a breathtaking fireworks display. They are the experiences that are passed down from one generation to the next, creating memories that will be cherished a lifetime. And no matter how we celebrate, we are reminded that we are all united as one because we are Americans. As we celebrate the 238th anniversary of our independence, we also continue to keep in mind the heroic sacrifices made by the brave members of our Armed Forces, our veterans, and their families. We are so proud of their service to keep our nation safe and secure. For those actively deployed, we pray for their safety and await their return home. We also owe it to our veterans to ensure that they receive the best resources and quality care when they return home. We will never forget that the freedoms and security we all enjoy come from those who serve. Wishing you and your loved ones a safe and happy Independence Day. May God continue to bless the United States of America.
06.27.2014	​The winner of the Congressional Art Competition in Michigan's Sixth District, Autumn Roth of St. Joseph, was feted Thursday during a reception in the nation's U.S. Capitol Building. Roth, who graduated from St. Joseph High School in Berrien County and plans to attend Hope College in Holland in the fall, won with her digital photograph titled, "Heard?" The image depicts a covered human form holding a blue and white sphere. The idea for the image came to her looking at pictures of women in Afghanistan and Iraq wearing burkas, shrouded from head to foot. The women were seen but not heard. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, met with Roth and her family before the awards ceremony. "It’s a great achievement and I'm proud to have our office take part in the competition to allow students like Autumn to share their art," said Upton. "The arts are a vital part of the community." Roth, who came to Washington, D.C., with her parents and sister, said she was excited about attending the awards luncheon and being able to see her art hanging in the Capitol, where it will remain on public display for a full year. "This has been a thrilling experience," she said. "It was an honor to win the Congressional Art Competition for the Sixth District.” Upton's office collaborated with the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts 2014 High School Area show for the Congressional Art Competition. It was open to all high school students living in the six counties making up the Sixth District. About 140 pieces were submitted for consideration in the Congressional Art Competition from students living in Allegan, Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, and Van Buren counties. The winners were awarded two free tickets courtesy of Southwest Airlines, sponsors and other speakers provided congratulations and praise to the artists for having the courage to share their work with hundreds of thousands of people who will view their work in the Capitol for the next year.
06.25.2014	The House of Representatives today approved bipartisan legislation that would cut through the red tape currently blocking exports of U.S. liquefied natural gas (LNG) to our global allies. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, is an original cosponsor of H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act, which would speed up the Department of Energy’s (DOE) approval process to ensure exports to our allies are no longer subject to unnecessary delays. Currently 26 export applications are pending at DOE, and some have been languishing for more than two years. The need for increased U.S. LNG exports has received considerable support and attention as the crisis between Russia and Ukraine continues. H.R. 6 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 266 to 150. “Because of advances in technology and innovation, we are now entering a new era of abundance, and America is emerging as an energy superpower. We can enjoy the domestic benefits of being an energy superpower while also projecting our influence as a force for good abroad,” said Upton. “Russia’s aggression is real, and American LNG can provide a much-needed lifeline as an alternative supply source, away from Putin’s grip.” In addition to boosting the U.S. economy and creating thousands of American jobs, U.S. LNG exports could cause a dramatic geopolitical shift by weakening Russia’s influence and increasing global energy security. Analysts have concluded that America has more than enough gas to supply our domestic needs and the export market, but DOE’s slow approval process could prevent the United States from fully seizing these benefits. In the Weekly Republican Address, Upton kicked off “Energy Week” in the House by previewing this week’s energy-focused legislation. Yesterday, the House approved Upton’s bipartisan North American Energy Infrastructure Act (H.R. 3301) to establish a clear and efficient approval process for pipelines and transmissions lines that cross the borders of the United States with Canada or Mexico.
06.24.2014	The House of Representatives today approved H.R. 3301, the North American Energy Infrastructure Act, by a bipartisan vote of 238 to 173. The bill, authored by House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and Rep. Gene Green, D-Texas, will establish a clear and efficient approval process for pipelines and transmission lines that cross the borders of the United States with Canada or Mexico. As demonstrated by the application for the Keystone XL pipeline, which has languished for nearly six years, the current process for approving cross-border energy projects is broken. Upton’s H.R. 3301 replaces the current Presidential Permit process created by a series of executive orders. The bill is a key component of his committee’s efforts to build the Architecture of Abundance, and will help facilitate the construction of new job-creating energy infrastructure projects needed to transport North America’s growing energy supplies to markets and consumers. Pipelines remain the safest and most environmentally sound way to transport vital energy supplies. In the last Congress, Upton worked closely with Michigan Congressman John Dingell, the former Democratic Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, to craft and shepherd through bipartisan legislation ensures vital updates and improvements are made in U.S. pipeline safety. That legislation was signed into law by the President at the beginning of 2012. Upton spoke on the House Floor today in support of H.R. 3301. His full remarks as prepared for delivery follow: It’s a new era for North American energy, and it’s time for the continent’s infrastructure to catch up. That’s why I wrote H.R. 3301, the North American Energy Infrastructure Act, with my friend and colleague Gene Green of Texas. With lessons learned from the Keystone XL pipeline debacle, we’re creating a fair and transparent approval process for cross-border energy projects, putting them all on a level playing field for the benefit of North American energy security, lower energy prices, and jobs. North America’s growing energy abundance has truly been a global game changer. Our continent has the potential to become the world’s leading energy-producing region, and the economic and geopolitical benefits are almost too good to believe. However, outdated or unnecessary federal requirements are standing in the way of this potential, including red tape surrounding energy infrastructure projects that cross the Canadian or Mexican border. These job-creating projects are a critical part of the architecture of abundance, and they can provide a cheaper and more secure energy supply. Simply put, we cannot become an energy superpower without upgrading the energy infrastructure linking us with our neighbors. We all know about Keystone XL, the oil pipeline project that would bring enough Canadian oil into the U.S. to displace OPEC imports while supporting up to 42,000 jobs, according to the Obama administration’s own estimates. Many of us also know that the project has been extensively studied and found to be environmentally safe. Nonetheless, for nearly 6 years the Obama administration has come up with one excuse after another for delaying its decision on the project. Keystone XL has yet to deliver any oil, but it has already delivered a message – that our process for approving such projects is badly broken. And yet, the White House is threatening to veto the bill, claiming this bill would “circumvent longstanding and proven processes.” While H.R. 3301 does not address Keystone XL’s permit – the House has already passed legislation doing that – this bill would ensure that important projects would not be stuck in limbo once being fully vetted. It would update and modernize the process for future cross-border energy infrastructure projects, eliminating the opportunities for delay and putting in place the same standards of review for oil pipelines, electric transmission facilities, and natural gas lines. I should also emphasize that the pipeline and transmission line projects impacted by this bill would still be subjected to the same environmental and safety reviews as would a comparable project that stayed within the U.S. And you know those safety measures have been an important priority for our committee and for the Congress, including through the tough new pipeline safety measure we enacted two years ago. But these cross-border projects would no longer face additional red tape and open-ended delays simply because they cross a national border. This commonsense bill enjoys bipartisan support, especially from border state members who know full well the economic benefits to the U.S. of such projects. I urge all of you to join us in supporting the North American Energy Infrastructure Act. Let’s stand up together and say yes to American jobs, and yes to energy. Upton’s bipartisan legislation has received strong support from leading energy experts, economists, and policy analysts as well as labor unions, manufacturers, job creators, and consumer groups. To learn more about H.R. 3301, click HERE.
06.21.2014	In this week’s Republican address, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, discusses legislation the House will take up this week to maximize the potential of America’s energy abundance. “These steps,” Upton says, “could help save money for American families, create new jobs and industries, and strengthen our position in the world.” He compares this pro-growth vision to policies of the current administration, which have failed to keep pace with the changing energy landscape and have left Americans more vulnerable to higher prices, fewer jobs, and more global instability. The audio of the address is available here and the video is available here. Post by Fred Upton. Remarks of Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) Weekly Republican Address Energy and Commerce Committee Hearing Room June 21, 2014 So let’s talk about energy – how it affects our daily lives, and how Republicans are working to make it more affordable, reliable, and beneficial. Not too long ago, we thought America’s energy needs could only be met through increasing foreign dependence. It’s a scary thought, particularly as we watch the chaos unfold overseas and gasoline prices closing in on four bucks a gallon here at home. I hear constantly from working families struggling with the cost of filling the tank just to drive to and from work. Energy is at the core of American life. It supports jobs and our economy, and it affects everything from the price at the pump and the monthly electricity bill to the cost of groceries – all of the things Americans need to make ends meet. Schools, churches, hospitals, and manufacturing plants in my home state of Michigan and around the country … they all depend on affordable energy. That’s why, this coming week, the House is going to vote on bills designed to make the most of America’s abundant energy supplies by building pipelines and transmission lines to connect our energy abundance to consumers, and by using our energy strength to fight back against hostile nations who use their resources to hold the rest of the world hostage. We have already taken steps to modernize permitting, approve major energy projects, cut red tape for hydropower plants, and keep American coal in our energy mix. But we're not going to stop there. We are offering more predictable regulations that encourage investment, lower prices, and create jobs here at home. We're making targeted energy efficiency reforms, which will also help reduce costs and eliminate waste. And we're focusing on the safety and reliability of the electrical grid to protect against everything from security threats to brownouts and blackouts. We're working to keep nuclear power safe and sustainable for the long-term. This is what we mean by an “all-of-the-above” energy strategy. Fossil and renewable fuels, expanded production and conservation … together, these steps could help save money for American families, create the new jobs and industries that we want, and strengthen our position across the globe. It’s very different than President Obama’s vision. His recently announced EPA rules for power plants is going to make it harder to use all of our American resources, and could well force states to ration energy, which certainly is going to make it more expensive to power our homes and factories. His record of energy development on federal lands remains dismal. And we all may rue the day that this president decided he could not say yes to the job-creating Keystone XL pipeline, which is going to displace energy from hostile parts of the world like Venezuela and the Middle East and replace it with supplies from our ally, our friend, Canada; instead, the project is in regulatory purgatory and America waits. We can do better, yes we can. The U.S. has entered an era of energy abundance, and now we need the architecture – the infrastructure and policies – to support it. That’s exactly what Republicans are working to deliver. Thanks for listening, and have a great weekend.
06.20.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, will talk about jobs and America’s energy abundance when he delivers tomorrow’s Weekly Republican Address. Upton made the announcement on Facebook: Post by Fred Upton. UPTON: “Hi there folks, just wanted to let you know about tomorrow’s Weekly Republican Address, where I’m going to talk about the exciting potential of America’s energy abundance to support our families, our economy, and our position as a global energy leader.” Chairman Upton will deliver the address from his hearing room, where the committee has approved bills the House will take up next week to help create jobs and make the most of America’s energy abundance. Learn more by going to http://energycommerce.house.gov. The Weekly Republican Address will be available tomorrow morning at 6:00 a.m. EST on Speaker.gov and GOP.gov.
06.18.2014	"Our investigation tracks with the findings of the report: a maddening and deadly breakdown over a decade plagued by missed opportunities and disconnects." - U.S. Rep. Fred Upton share: f t House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, is hearing today from General Motors CEO Mary Barra and internal investigator Anton Valukas at a hearing entitled “The GM Ignition Switch Recall: Investigation Update.” The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hearing is focused on the facts and circumstances that contributed to GM’s failure to identify a safety defect in certain ignition switches and initiate a recall in a timely manner. In particular, the hearing is to examine the findings of GM’s internal investigation report regarding the ignition switch recall conducted by Valukas. GM has recalled millions of vehicles this year for issues that have been linked to at least 13 deaths, including two teenagers from Upton’s own community. Today’s hearing is part of an outgoing investigation led by Upton’s Committee, which last received testimony from GM CEO Barra in early April. To date, the Committee has received and reviewed over 1 million pages of documents from GM and approximately 15,000 pages from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). ​**CLICK HERE TO WATCH UPTON'S OPENING REMARKS** The full text of Upton’s opening remarks, as prepared for delivery: Ms. Barra, thank you for returning back to the committee today. Three months ago we held our first hearing on the GM ignition switch recall. We asked a lot of questions, but we got few answers. I expect things to go differently today. We have the Valukas report in hand, and we have its words seared in our minds. Our investigation tracks with the findings of the report: a maddening and deadly breakdown over a decade plagued by missed opportunities and disconnects. Engineers didn’t comprehend how their cars operated or how vehicle systems were linked together. The company believed a car that stalled while driving wasn’t necessarily a safety concern. Investigators let investigations drift for years despite having proof right before their eyes that an airbag system wasn’t deploying when it should have. And all of this existed in a bureaucratic culture where employees avoided taking responsibility with a nod of the head. Ms. Barra, you have said you found this report deeply troubling. I find it deplorable, disturbing, and downright devastating – to you, to GM, to folks in Michigan who live and breathe pride in our auto industry, but most of all, to the families of the victims. The recall announced on Monday makes it painfully clear this is not just a Cobalt problem. A new set of vehicles – including multiple Chevrolet, Cadillac, and Buick models – are facing an ignition switch recall for the very same kind of torque problem that lurked for over a decade in the Cobalt and similar small vehicles, with fatal consequences for unsuspecting drivers – including two teenagers from my own community. Ms. Barra and Mr. Valukas, many questions today will focus on how and why this happened. I intend to focus on how we can make sure it never happens again. A culture that allowed safety problems to fester for years will be hard to change. But if GM is going to recover and regain the public’s trust, it must learn from this report and break the patterns that led to this unimaginable systemic breakdown. I want specifics on whether the changes you have already put in place have made a difference. With the Valukas report, GM has provided its assessment of what went wrong. I want to be clear today that our investigation continues. This committee has reviewed over one million pages of documents and interviewed key personnel from GM and NHTSA. While we are addressing GM’s actions and response today, we will address NHTSA’s part of this story in the near future. We don’t yet have all the answers about what changes in our laws, the regulator’s practices, or the company’s culture would have prevented this safety defect from lingering so long or harming so many. But we will find out. The system failed and people died, and it could have been prevented.
06.10.2014	Following recent reports of severe mismanagement and a lack of accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the U.S. House of Representatives today passed bipartisan legislation to expand veteran access to medical care outside of the VA health system. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, is an original cosponsor of the Veteran Access to Care Act (H.R. 4810), which passed by a unanimous vote of 426 to 0 and now awaits further consideration in the U.S. Senate. “The brave men and women of our Armed Forces have sacrificed so much, putting their lives on the line to keep the nation safe and secure. As veterans, they deserve nothing less than the best quality care – they’ve earned it,” said Upton. “A nationwide audit finding that 57,000 of our veterans have been waiting more than 90 days for an appointment, and that an additional 64,000 have fallen through the cracks, is just unacceptable and we need a fix right away. The Veteran Access to Care Act expands veteran access to medical care in the private sector if they are unable to get it within the VA system. This legislation provides immediate relief now until a thorough investigation and overhaul of the VA can be completed.” H.R. 4810 directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter contracts with non-VA facilities to provide care for veterans who: 1) reside more than 40 miles from a VA medical facility; 2) have waited longer than the time goals established by VA for a medical appointment; or 3) have been notified by VA that an appointment is not available within the Department’s current wait-time goals. Non-VA providers must be reimbursed by the Secretary at the greatest of the following rates: the rate of reimbursement under VA; the rate of reimbursement under Medicare; or the rate of reimbursement under TRICARE. The Veteran Access to Care Act also requires the Secretary to contract with an independent entity to conduct an assessment of the health care provided in VA medical facilities; report the findings and recommendations of the assessment to Congress; and submit a report on the assessment, including an action plan and timeline for full implementation of the assessment’s recommendations. Lastly, H.R. 4810 eliminates performance awards and bonuses for all VA employees through Fiscal Year 2016. Upton was part of bipartisan group of House Members who sent a letter to Acting VA Secretary Sloan Gibson last week, urging the Department to immediately expand fee-basis care to any veteran awaiting medical care in the VA health system. Fee-basis care allows veterans to see private-sector medical providers and is currently used by the VA on a limited basis to help address capacity shortfalls. Southwest Michigan veterans having difficulties with their benefits or in seeking medical care are encouraged to contact Upton’s constituent service offices in Kalamazoo (269-385-0039) and St. Joseph/Benton Harbor (269-982-1986) for immediate assistance.
06.09.2014	American veterans are being denied access to timely medical care at facilities across the country, suggests a recent interim report published by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Inspector General, which resulted in the resignation of VA Secretary Eric Shinseki. To ensure our veterans have access to the care they have earned and deserve, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, has become an original cosponsor of the Veteran Access to Care Act. Authored by House Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller, R-Fla., the bipartisan legislation is expected to be considered on the House Floor this week. “This legislation is a first step toward giving our nation’s veterans a health care system worthy of their service and sacrifice,” Upton said. “The Veteran Access to Care Act would put in place a number of reforms to immediately expand veteran access to quality care outside of the VA until a thorough investigation is conducted and long-term reforms can be made.” The Veteran Access to Care Act would take a number actions to expand veteran access to medical care outside the VA health system, review the quality of care provided in VA medical facilities, and remove incentives that may encourage bad bookkeeping at the expense of patient care: Require VA, for two years after enactment, to offer a non-VA care authorization to any enrolled veteran who resides more than 40 miles from a VA medical facility, who has waited longer than the time goals established by VA for a medical appointment, or who has been notified by VA that an appointment is not available within the Department’s current wait-time goals; Require VA to utilize existing contracts to the greatest extent possible, ensure that the non-VA care authorization encompasses a complete episode of care, and to submit a quarterly report to Congress on the care provided under this authority; Require VA, for two years after enactment, to reimburse non-VA providers at the greater of the following: the rate of reimbursement under VA; the rate of reimbursement under Medicare; or the rate of reimbursement under TRICARE; Require VA to enter into a contract with an independent entity or entities to conduct an assessment of the health care provided in VA medical facilities; report the findings and recommendations of the assessment to Congress; and submit a report on the assessment, including an action plan and timeline for full implementation of the assessment’s recommendations, to Congress; and, Eliminate performance awards and bonuses for all VA employees for the next two years. Upton was part of bipartisan group of House Members who sent a letter to Acting VA Secretary Sloan Gibson last week, urging the Department to immediately expand fee-basis care to any veteran awaiting medical care in the VA health system. Fee-basis care allows veterans to see private-sector medical providers and is currently used by the VA on a limited basis to help address capacity shortfalls. Southwest Michigan veterans having difficulties with their benefits or in seeking medical care are encouraged to contact Upton’s constituent service offices in Kalamazoo (269-385-0039) and St. Joseph/Benton Harbor (269-982-1986) for immediate assistance. “My office has been in regular contact with veterans, Veterans Service Officers, and VA staff in Michigan to ensure our veterans are receiving the care they have earned and deserve. If you are a veteran and are concerned about the care you’re receiving, please contact my office. As Congress continues to examine the VA and the how veterans are best served, I will continue to listen to veterans in Michigan for their input.”
06.06.2014	A longtime proponent of nuclear energy as part of his “all of the above” energy strategy, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, on Friday took tours of the Palisades Nuclear Power Plant in Covert Township and the local D.C. Cook Nuclear Power Plant with Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) Chairman Allison M. Macfarlane. The plants, which employ about 2,000 workers and provide the largest amount of tax dollars to Van Buren and Berrien counties, provide a steady stream of affordable energy to the area in a way that lessens dependence on foreign energy sources. But, Upton said after the tour, safety remains paramount for those who work at the sites and those who live near them. “The United States is in the midst of a great energy renaissance. Through the advancement of nuclear power, we can ensure a safe and steady supply of domestic energy while spurring domestic job creation and manufacturing,” said Upton, a St. Joseph native. “As Energy and Commerce Chairman and a lifelong member of this community, I am fully committed to ensuring that these plants operate safely and that the NRC does its job. The health and well-being of our communities is absolutely imperative and comes before all else.” The visit provided a ground-level view of how the plants operate and a first-hand view of the safety measures in place. This was Macfarlane’s first visit to the plants as NRC Chairman. In addition to seeing the operational functions, Upton and Macfarlane spoke with NRC resident inspectors at Palisades and Cook. The tours also included information about how the plants are handling used nuclear fuel. Upton has long supported a permanent national storage site for the spent fuel, rather than allowing stockpiles to grow across the country. While both plants are licensed to operate long into the future – 2037 for Cook and 2031 for Palisades – administrators told Upton and Macfarlane they are constantly looking for ways to improve. The NRC, in turn, is always looking at ways to improve safety at the plants.
06.05.2014	" ... The initial findings are deeply disturbing, suggesting that communications and management failures ran deep and wide within GM." - Rep. Upton share: f t House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today called the findings from General Motors’ internal investigation relating to the ignition switch recall “deeply disturbing.” “I spoke to General Motors CEO Mary Barra this morning. She asked for a thorough review and I believe this report reflects that,” Upton said. “It will take time to scrutinize this 300-plus page report, but the initial findings are deeply disturbing, suggesting that communications and management failures ran deep and wide within GM. The failure to identify red flags and conduct a recall sooner cost lives. It has been more than a decade since we put tough new standards in place so automakers and regulators could quickly spot patterns and fix safety risks, yet this devastating design flaw slipped through the cracks. It's unacceptable.” Upton – along with Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Tim Murphy, R-Pa. –plans to review the company’s findings with GM CEO Marry Barra and author of the internal report Anton Valukas at a hearing in the coming weeks. The automaker company provided the committee with more than 500,000 pages of documents within the last week. Upton’s Committee heard from Barra and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) Acting Administrator David Friedman in early April as part of an ongoing investigation of GM’s and NHTSA’s response to consumer complaints related to stalling, airbag non-deployment, and ignition switch problems. The defect has been linked to the death of two teenagers from Upton’s own Southwest Michigan district. “Ms. Barra assured me that she would come back to testify about the report and answer outstanding questions,” Upton said. “We are expecting Mr. Valukas as well. The conclusion of GM’s internal investigation marks an important milestone, but our investigation continues as many questions remain for both the company and NHTSA. GM and NHTSA must continue to cooperate and provide us honest answers as we work to determine what went wrong, if there are gaps in the law that allowed the system to fail, and what legislative remedies may be necessary.” It has been more than a decade since the enactment of the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (or TREAD) Act, which was passed by Congress and signed into law on November 1, 2000, to enhance the federal government’s ability to protect against auto safety defects. Upton authored the TREAD Act after spearheading an extensive investigation into the Ford-Firestone tire malfunctions as then-chairman of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. The legislation was intended to improve communication between auto manufacturers and the federal government and increase the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) ability to collect and analyze information about potential threats.
06.04.2014	"My office has been in regular contact with veterans, Veterans Service Officers, and VA staff in Michigan to ensure our veterans are receiving the care they have earned and deserve. If you are a veteran and are concerned about the care you’re receiving, please contact my office." share: f t Following the resignation of Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki in wake of a scandal at the VA medical facility in Phoenix, Congressman Fred Upton has joined a bipartisan group of House Members in sending a letter to the VA, urging the Department to immediately expand fee-basis care to any veteran awaiting medical care in the VA health system. “The current VA health system is broken and incentivizes bad bookkeeping instead of individual patient care,” said Upton. “By expanding access to medical services in the private sector, we can ensure our veterans receive timely access to quality care, while also easing the VA backlog until more thorough reforms can be made. These men and women bravely fought for our nation; it’s time to return the favor.” Fee-basis care, in which the VA pays for veterans to see private-sector medical providers, is something that the VA currently does to help address capacity shortfalls. While the VA health system is overburdened, many veterans are still denied access to fee-basis care as the outsourced care is paid for by each individual VA health facility, creating an incentive for those facilities to deny veterans’ requests and keep them locked in the VA health system. To address this issue, the joint letter asks Acting VA Secretary Sloan Gibson to “establish a budget mechanism outside of the existing model to ensure that the local and regional VA healthcare managers have no incentive to deny veterans access to fee-basis care.” Southwest Michigan veterans having difficulties with their benefits or in seeking medical care are encouraged to contact Upton’s constituent service offices in Kalamazoo (269-385-0039) and St. Joseph/Benton Harbor (269-982-1986) for immediate assistance. “My office has been in regular contact with veterans, Veterans Service Officers, and VA staff in Michigan to ensure our veterans are receiving the care they have earned and deserve. If you are a veteran and are concerned about the care you’re receiving, please contact my office. As Congress continues to examine the VA and the how veterans are best served, I will continue to listen to veterans in Michigan for their input.” Since last week’s release of the VA Inspector General report on the problems at the VA facility in Phoenix, Upton’s office has been in contact with the VA medical facility in Battle Creek as well as the veteran service offices in each county in his district. The full text of the letter to Acting VA Secretary Gibson immediately follows. Click here to view the original letter online: Dear Acting Secretary Gibson: We are deeply concerned by recent reports of secret waiting lists at Veterans Affairs (VA) medical clinics across the country. While the investigations remain open, the first priority of the VA and Congress should be to make sure that all our veterans receive the medical care that they need in a prompt and timely fashion. We know of at least 1,700 veterans in the Phoenix region alone stuck on secret waiting lists. The VA-OIG's recent admission that this is a systemic problem that exists throughout the VA healthcare system means that there are likely thousands more across our country who are unacceptably being denied the timely care they need and deserve. In testimony to the House Veterans Affairs Committee, both on April 9, 2014, and again on May 28, 2014, Dr. Lynch, the VA’s Assistant Deputy Under Secretary for Health for Operations and Management, confirmed that the VA currently has the authority and funds to pay for veterans to go see private-sector medical providers. There is absolutely no reason that veterans should be waiting months for care at VA medical facilities when the VA has a system in place for them to immediately see private-sector doctors. While Dr. Lynch testified to the House Veterans Affairs Committee that the 1,700 veterans in Phoenix would be offered immediate access to private doctors, we believe that the VA should take the next logical step. It should provide this disaster relief for veterans across the country and make fee-basis care immediately available for any veteran who has been waiting too long for care. However, the VA must remain the guarantor and coordinator of care for all enrolled veterans. Veterans should never be expected to coordinate their own care or be held responsible for record sharing when receiving care outside of the VA. Fee-basis care can and should be used to provide medical care to veterans when the VA health system is overburdened. Unfortunately, one of the reasons that many veterans are denied access to fee-basis care is that the costs of this outsourced care is covered out of the budget of each individual VA health facility. Local and regional VA managers are incentivized to deny veterans’ requests for fee-basis care and keep them locked in the VA health system, even if that leads to longer wait times for care. Therefore, in addition to directing immediate and wide-spread access to fee-basis care for waiting veterans, we also ask you to immediately establish a budget mechanism outside of the existing model to ensure that the local and regional VA healthcare managers have no incentive to deny veterans access to fee-basis care. Creating a new funding mechanism for fee-basis care, independent of local VA facilities, will both ensure that veterans on waiting lists receive private sector medical care quickly if they so choose, and will fundamentally change the incentive structure that has led, at least in part, to these atrocious secret waiting lists. We urge you to immediately take action to increase all veterans’ ability to access fee-basis care when the VA's capacity does not allow them to provide the timely care that our veterans need. Sincerely,
05.30.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement on the resignation of U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki. “On Monday, we honored the millions of veterans who made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation. Our soldiers are given the best training and resources for the battlefield – they deserve the best treatment and care when they return home. Recent revelations of veteran mistreatment and facility mismanagement are appalling and heads needed to roll. Secretary Shinseki has led an honorable and distinguished career in service to our country, but it is time for new leadership to tackle the longstanding problems facing the VA. To fix our broken VA system and provide personalized veteran care, there needs to be accountability at the VA.” Today’s announcement follows the release of an interim report by the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Office of Inspector General on allegations of delayed and compromised patient care at the VA hospital in Phoenix. The VA OIG found that the problems in Arizona are “systemic throughout” the VA hospital system and have been detrimental to veteran care. Michigan is home to more than 660,000 veterans. The VA OIG report noted that the problems exposed at the Phoenix facility are endemic within the greater VA system: “Our reviews at a growing number of VA medical facilities have thus far provided insight into the current extent of these inappropriate scheduling issues throughout the VA health care system and have confirmed that inappropriate scheduling practices are systemic throughout VHA.” Last week, Upton supported passage of H.R. 4031, the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014, which gives the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs authority to remove poorly performing employees. H.R. 4031 will ensure that those responsible for the slow delivery of care to veterans are held accountable for their actions.
05.23.2014	By Rep. Fred Upton More than 1 million Michiganders will be on the go this weekend as folks travel by road, rail, or air to spend time with loved ones this Memorial Day weekend. As we join with family and friends to enjoy some much-deserved warmer weather, let us continue to keep in mind those brave American service members who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our nation. It was nearly 150 years ago this May that a proclamation was issued by an organization of Union Civil War veterans to honor and decorate the graves of fellow Union soldiers who were killed during the American Civil War. Now celebrated on the last Monday of the month, Memorial Day is an occasion to remember American soldiers of all wars who died while serving our country and to honor the sacrifice made by them and their families. We are also mindful of the sacrifices that continued to be made by our troops today. They and their families have given so much for our country. We look forward to their safe return home and owe them not only our sincere gratitude, but the support and services they need to succeed off the battlefield. For every monument we see, for every flag on a grave, there is an important story to tell. From generation to generation, the people who have fought to preserve liberty were not only soldiers – they were fathers and mothers, husbands and wives, sisters and brothers, sons and daughters. They were our neighbors and classmates, our friends and colleagues, and when the nation needed them, they answered the call. They fought for their nation, for their communities, for all of us, and – not least – for one another. We pay our respects to the many generations of heroes who sacrificed their tomorrows so that we may enjoy our freedoms today. We are all so proud of their service and we say thank you. We are truly the land of the free because of our brave.
05.20.2014	Nearly one-third of America’s gross domestic product (GDP) is derived from international trade and 99 percent of that trade passes through the nation’s ports. Today, by a nearly unanimous vote of 412 to 4, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a bipartisan, bicameral agreement – the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) of 2014 – to maintain and modernize the nation’s water transportation infrastructure. The comprehensive legislation authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to carry out its mission to develop, maintain, and support the infrastructure of our nation’s ports and waterways as well as support environmental restoration and flood protection efforts. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph – a longtime advocate for Lake Michigan harbors – praised the bill as a major victory for the Great Lakes and the thousands of workers whose jobs depend upon them. “As everyone in Michigan knows, our Great Lakes play a vital role in our economy – from supporting local tourism and recreational traffic to allowing for the commercial shipment of goods and raw materials. I am very pleased that, after months of negotiations, the House and Senate were able to reach a bipartisan agreement to ensure our harbors and waterways remain open and operational. “This agreement is a big win for the Great Lakes in particular. I am especially pleased to see long-overdue steps taken to ensure the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) is solely used for its intended purpose: maintaining our nation’s harbors. The misallocation of these dollars have left our local ports and waterways seriously underfunded for years; the reforms in this bill will help change that.” WRRDA requires that federal revenues collected for harbor maintenance and operations through the Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) are fully used for their intended purpose. Without the passage of WRDDA, roughly half of those dollars would continue to go unspent, creating a HMTF surplus that is used instead as a budgetary gimmick to offset other federal spending. WRRDA sets minimum authorization levels for the HMTF and requires 100 percent of it be spent by 2025. Today’s agreement also mandates that at least 10 percent of HMTF dollars be spent on smaller ports. The bill also includes language authored by Michigan Reps. Candice Miller, R-Harrison Township, and Bill Huizenga, R-Zeeland and cosponsored by Upton that designates the entire Great Lakes Navigation System (GLNS) as a single, unified system for budgetary purposes. Rather than forcing Great Lakes harbors to compete for funding like coastal ports, this important provision recognizes the economic benefits of their interdependence and will help ensure consistent future funding. “This important designation will finally allow our local harbors to present a unified front when competing for vital funding and resources,” Upton said. The GLNS is a continuous waterway that extends more than 2,400 miles from the far reaches of Lake Superior to the Gulf of St. Lawrence on the Atlantic Ocean. The U.S. portion of the GLNS consists of 140 harbors (60 commercial; 80 recreational), two operational locks, 104 miles of breakwaters and jetties, and more than 600 miles of maintained navigational channels.
05.20.2014	Millions of children, women, and men are trafficked every year around the world for exploitation and commercial gain. Second only to drugs, the trafficking of humans generates some $32 billion per year. Today, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined his House colleagues in passing a series of legislative measures aimed at ending domestic and international trafficking, and providing greater support for its victims. “Human trafficking is a heart-breaking and despicably wicked form of abuse. This form of modern-day slavery knows no boundaries, tearing families apart here in the United States and across the globe. The ongoing horrors in Nigeria are only the most recent reminder. We all carry a great moral responsibility to protect our most vulnerable from abuse, to give voice to those who have been silenced, and to hold the perpetrators accountable.” Anti-human trafficking efforts in the United States have accelerated domestically since the enactment of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000. Upton has been a strong supporter of this program, most recently by voting to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act through Fiscal Year 2017. H.R. 3530 – Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act Comprehensive domestic anti-human trafficking legislation that reallocates existing grants for human trafficking deterrence and victims’ support and provides additional law enforcement tools to enable authorities to prosecute all those involved in human trafficking. H.R. 3610 – Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act Encourages states to adopt safe harbor laws that treat trafficked minors as victims and provide an avenue for victims to leave their situations with access to protective services, counseling, and skill building, rather than entering the legal system and being incarcerated. H.R. 4058 – Preventing Sex Trafficking and Improving Opportunities for Youth in Foster Care Act Requires states to take steps to identify, prevent, and address sex trafficking of youth in foster care. Also improves the lives of youth in foster care by ensuring they have more normal opportunities and experiences, while also providing them with tools they need to become successful adults. H.R. 4225 – Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation (SAVE) Act Makes it a federal crime to knowingly advertise for the commercial sex exploitation of minors and trafficking victims. H.R. 4573 – International Megan’s Law Ensures that a destination country is aware when an American sex offender who has previously abused a child is traveling to that country and encourages reciprocal notification to protect American children from abuse by foreign sex offenders.
05.16.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement following the U.S. Department of Transportation’s announcement that General Motors has agreed to pay a record $35 million civil penalty for failure to report the ignition switch safety defect to the government in a timely manner: “When it comes to vehicle safety, a matter of life and death, there is no margin for error,” said Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “GM's admission that it failed to follow the law is an important milestone, but our investigation into how the system failed is far from over. We continue to gather documents and interview key players involved in the ignition recall to determine why it took so long to connect the dots and take action. What should have been a maximum of five days to report took years, and people died as a result. “When we wrote the TREAD Act over a decade ago in response to Ford-Firestone, we inserted criminal fines into the law to make it clear that mistakes and delays will not be tolerated. Today's record penalty sends a strong message that nothing is more important than safety. There are still many unanswered questions, and we must first fully understand how and why the system broke down to determine the necessary action to ensure the public's faith is restored and this never happens again."
05.15.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement in response to Russian President Vladimir Putin’s announcement that Russia will cut off natural gas supplies to Ukraine unless it receives pre-payments. “Threatening to turn off the spigot of natural gas to Ukraine is nothing but extortion playing out on the global stage. This shameful act of defiance by Putin underscores the growing need for Congress to act on LNG exports. Passage of Rep. Gardner’s bipartisan legislation, H.R. 6, would send the clear signal that we are serious about enlarging the scope of natural gas exports, and immediately undercut Russia’s dominance. Russia has chosen to wield its energy resources as a geopolitical weapon to inflict harm on others. As the world’s emerging energy superpower, America has a newfound responsibility to help our allies. I look forward to a strong vote on the House floor and urge the Senate to take action on this critical issue." The increased export of U.S. liquefied natural gas (LNG) would have widespread benefits at home and abroad, but the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) slow approval process threatens this opportunity. H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act, would help clear the backlog of export applications currently pending at DOE. The legislation provides that DOE must issue a decision on any application no later than 90 days of enactment or the end of the application's comment period. It also provides for expedited judicial review for challenges to DOE’s decision or inaction on these applications. Currently 24 applications are awaiting action from DOE, and some have been languishing for over two years. H.R. 6 was approved by Upton’s committee on April 30, 2014, by a bipartisan vote of 33-18 and is expected to be considered by the full House in the coming weeks. DOE analysis finds that America has enough natural gas to meet domestic needs affordably while also supporting economically beneficial export markets in LNG. According to the Department, the U.S. economy will experience “net economic benefits” from allowing increased LNG exports. In addition to the economic benefits and jobs resulting from building new export facilities, opening new markets for American natural gas would encourage further production of domestic energy, helping to create additional jobs and support America’s manufacturing renaissance. Increasing U.S. LNG exports has been widely praised as beneficial to both the U.S. economy and our allies, including The Washington Post which stated: “The economic case for allowing natural gas exports is compelling on its own. Doing so would bring money into the country and uphold the vital principle that energy resources should flow freely around the globe, making the markets for the fuels the world economy needs as flexible and robust as possible. The more major suppliers there are following that principle, the less control predatory regimes such as Mr. Putin’s will have over the market.”
05.13.2014	Rep. Fred Upton and Sens. Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow today wrote to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy, encouraging the agency to follow the wishes of local officials and citizens on cleanup of the Allied Paper Superfund Site in Kalamazoo. The lawmakers note that the City of Kalamazoo supports the total removal of an estimated 1.5 million cubic yards of PCB-contaminated waste from a landfill on the site “and is concerned about restrictions that would prevent them from developing the site” if EPA chooses to merely cap and contain the contamination. EPA has announced that a final cleanup option for the site will be proposed this year. The lawmakers also write that it is essential that EPA test the site to ensure that contamination does not migrate into nearby water sources. The full text of the letter follows: May 13, 2014 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy: We are writing in regards to the Allied Landfill, located in Kalamazoo, Michigan, which is part of the Allied Paper, Inc./Portage Creek/Kalamazoo River Superfund Site. As you know, the Allied Landfill is estimated to contain 1.5 million cubic yards of PCB-contaminated waste from historical paper mill operations, and the EPA has announced that a final remedy for the Allied site will be proposed this year. It is essential that the final remedy which is selected protects the health and safety of Kalamazoo residents and allows for the site to be redeveloped and put to good use for the community. The City of Kalamazoo strongly supports the total removal option and is concerned about restrictions that would prevent them from developing the site if the EPA chooses to merely cap and contain. The redevelopment of this site is a top priority for this community. We are concerned that redevelopment could be limited by cleanup remedies other than total removal of the waste. If one of the alternatives is selected that does not involve total removal, such as consolidation and capping or an encapsulation containment system, what restrictions would be placed on development of the site? If the PCB-contaminated material is not totally removed from the site, would it be possible to build housing, a community center or a school at the site? Would the entire site be available for development? It is important the cleanup alternative selected not restrict development at the site. The community is eager to see this property cleaned up and put back to productive use. The community is interested in using new cleanup technologies at the site that could reduce cleanup costs. We urge the EPA to work with the community to test and develop these new technologies and consider using the site as a pilot project for emerging cleanup technologies. Also, we understand that the source of Kalamazoo’s drinking water is near the Allied site and is regularly tested. However, given the proximity of the Allied site to the drinking water source, it is essential that the EPA test the Allied site for contaminants and to determine whether they are migrating from the site to ground and surface water. When has EPA last conducted such sampling, testing and monitoring? What is EPA’s plan for continuing to sample, test and monitor the possible migration of contaminants from the site? It is important the community continues to have a voice during the decision making process. If you have any questions about our concerns, please feel free to contact any of us or have your staff contact Alice Yates (Sen. Levin) at 202-224-6221, Joe McGarvey (Sen. Stabenow) at 202-224-4822, or Mark Ratner (Rep. Upton) at 202-225-3761. We look forward to your prompt reply. Thank you. Sincerely, Carl Levin U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow U.S. Senator Fred Upton Member of Congress
05.08.2014	The U.S. House of Representatives today approved the establishment of a 12-member select committee to conduct a full investigation of the 2012 terrorist attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, which left four Americans dead, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens. "For far too long, many of us have tried to get the real story about what happened in Benghazi on September 11, 2012. And sadly for everyone – the families who lost loved ones, State Department employees around the globe, and those of us charged with the responsibility of finding the truth – the serious questions have not been answered,” said Representative Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph. “Because of the lack of cooperation, the Congress debated and passed a resolution calling for the formation of this select committee. Only with answers can we put this issue behind us and ensure such a tragedy never happens again." H.Res. 567, Providing for the Establishment of the Select Committee on the Events Surrounding the 2012 Terrorist Attack in Benghazi, directs the select committee to conduct a full investigation focused on nine areas (outlined below) and issue a final report to Congress. Congressman Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., will chair the committee and will have subpoena and deposition authority. Committee members will be appointed following passage of the bill. For more than a year, five House committees – Armed Services; Foreign Affairs; Judiciary; Oversight and Government Reform; and Intelligence – have conducted extensive investigations into the events that led up to the attack and the Obama administration’s response. An interim progress report prepared by the committees made several key findings: 1) repeated requests for additional security by our Embassy in Libya were denied in Washington and instead, our security assets were actually reduced prior to the attacks; and 2) following the attacks, the administration altered accurate talking points prepared by the intelligence community to protect the State Department. The decision to form the select committee follows recent revelations the administration withheld documents from Congress that show how White House officials sought to craft a political message following the attacks. The scope of the select committee’s investigation will include: 1) all policies, decisions, and activities that contributed to the attacks on U.S. facilities in Benghazi, as well as those that affected the ability of the U.S. to prepare for the attacks; 2) all policies, decisions, and activities to respond to and repel the attacks; 3) internal and public executive branch communications about the attacks; 4) accountability for policies and decisions related to the security of facilities in Benghazi and the response to the attacks, including individuals responsible for the policies and decisions; 5) efforts by the executive branch to identify and bring to justice the perpetrators of the attacks; 6) efforts by the executive branch to comply with congressional inquiries into the attacks; 7) recommendations for improving executive branch cooperation and compliance with congressional oversight and investigations; 8) lessons learned from the attacks and efforts by the executive branch to protect U.S. facilities and personnel abroad; 9) any other relevant issues.
05.07.2014	The U.S. House of Representatives voted this evening to hold former Internal Revenue Service (IRS) official Lois Lerner in contempt of Congress for refusing to comply with a congressional subpoena to provide testimony regarding the agency’s targeting of conservative organizations seeking tax-exempt status. “The constitutional right to free speech is the lifeblood of our democracy, and it is the responsibility of our government to ensure that right is protected,” said Representative Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph. “When the public trust is broken through unlawful actions, the American people expect the wrongdoers to be held accountable. Ms. Lerner’s testimony is vital to Congress’s investigation; her unwillingness to cooperate has impeded our ability to get the public the answers it deserves.” In 2013, it was discovered that for nearly two years the IRS had deliberately acted to target conservative-leaning organizations seeking tax-exempt status by delaying or interfering with applications and processing. Lerner served as Director of Exempt Organizations for the IRS during that period. On May 22, 2013, Lerner appeared at an Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing where she made a voluntary opening statement denying any wrongdoing, but refused to answer any questions. It was later determined that Lerner’s statement constituted a waiver of her Fifth Amendment privilege, compelling her to publicly testify before Congress. Based on the coordinated investigation of the Oversight and Government Reform and Ways and Means Committees, it is clear Ms. Lerner has firsthand knowledge of the IRS’s targeting of conservative groups seeking tax-exempt status. More importantly, the investigation has concluded that Ms. Lerner was personally involved in aspects of the targeting, including ordering Tea Party applications to proceed through an unprecedented multi-tier review process. The House will vote tomorrow, Thursday, May 8, on a resolution (H.Res.565) calling on Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr. to appoint a special counsel to investigate the IRS’s targeting of conservative nonprofit groups. Upton is a cosponsor of the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination and Protection Act of 2013 (H.R. 1950), which seeks to prevent biased, politically-motivated discrimination by increasing the maximum penalty for IRS employee misconduct against taxpayers.
05.02.2014	This June, WWII veteran Larry Michal will travel to Normandy, France, with his son Steve for the first time since 1944. They will attend the ceremonies of the 70th Anniversary of D-Day. share: f t In commemoration of the upcoming 70th anniversary of the Normandy landings, U.S. Representative Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined local officials and business leaders this afternoon at Fisherman’s Park in Benton Harbor to recognize the service of World War II veteran Larry Michal. Upton praised Michal and all those of the Greatest Generation for their service to the nation. “Almost seven decades ago and in the prime of his life, Larry Michal found himself some 4,000 miles away from home on the eve of one of the most storied attacks in modern history,” Upton said. “Like so many of his generation, he was not fighting for fame, riches, or glory, but simply because his nation needed him. We are so proud and grateful for the service of veterans like Larry and we continue to remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice and never returned home to their loved ones.” Ninety-year-old Michal served as an Intelligence NCO as part of the 82nd Airborne, 508 Parachute Infantry. The unit participated in Operation Overlord, jumping into Normandy at 2:15 a.m. on June 6, 1944. Michal was the first to jump out of his plane during the airborne assault, landing in four feet of water with heavy wind, which nearly drowned him. Michal carried the precious maps needed to establish an advance command post. Michal was wounded in action on June 25, 1944, in Normandy. For his courageous service, he received the Combat Infantry Badge, one Bronze Battle Star, the European-African-Middle Eastern Theater Ribbon, the Good Conduct Ribbon, and a Purple Heart. This June, Michal will travel to Normandy, France, with his son Steve for the first time since 1944. They will attend the ceremonies of the 70th Anniversary of D-Day. An employee of the Whirlpool Corp. for 29 years, Michal was presented with a check today by Whirlpool’s Veterans Association to assist in paying for his return trip. Also at today’s ceremony, Upton presented a U.S. Capitol-flown flag to the Lakeshore High School Band of Stevensville, which will also be travelling to Normandy to perform during the D-Day anniversary ceremonies. Band members are planning to take sand from the shores of Lake Michigan and place it on the graves of 750 Michigan residents buried in France. Michal is also to be grand marshal for the 71st Blossomtime Grand Floral Parade scheduled to start at 1 p.m. Saturday in Benton Harbor/St. Joseph. “This is a trip of a lifetime, a memory that each of these students will hold onto for the rest of their lives. We are proud of all of their hard work to make this trip happen and know Southwest Michigan will be well-represented. Go Lancers!”
04.30.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) today announced the launch of 21st Century Cures, a new initiative that aims to accelerate the pace of cures and medical breakthroughs in the United States. Chairman Upton, along with committee member Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), explain in a new video that over the next several months, members will take a comprehensive look at the full arc of this process – from discovery to development to delivery – to determine what steps we can take to ensure we are taking full advantage of the advances this country has made in science and technology and use these resources to keep America as the innovation capital of the world. The committee seeks to broadly collaborate with the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and other agencies, as well as the nation’s patients and scientific pioneers in academia and industry. The committee’s extensive effort will include white papers, roundtables, and hearings, as well as the solicitation of input from interested parties, large and small. CLICK HERE to watch Reps. Upton and DeGette Excerpts: Upton: In the 21st century, health care innovation is happening at lightning speed. From the mapping of the human genome to the rise of personalized medicines that are linked to advances in molecular medicine, we have seen constant breakthroughs that are changing the face of disease treatment, management, and cures. DeGette: Health research is moving quickly, but the federal drug and device approval apparatus is in many ways the relic of another era. We have dedicated scientists and bold leaders at agencies like the NIH and the FDA, but when our laws don’t keep pace with innovation, we all lose. Upton: If we want to save more lives and keep this country the leader in medical innovation, we have to make sure there’s not a major gap between the science of cures and the way we regulate these therapies. DeGette: That is why, for the first time ever, we in Congress are going to take a comprehensive look at what steps we can take to accelerate the pace of cures in America. We are looking at the full arc of this process – from the discovery of clues in basic science, to streamlining the drug and device development process, to unleashing the power of digital medicine and social media at the treatment delivery phase. Upton: We know we don’t have all the answers. That’s why we’re asking questions first. We are listening. We want to know how to close the gaps between advances in scientific knowledge about cures and the regulatory policies created to save more lives. Learn more about 21st Century Cures online here, and join the effort on Facebook and Twitter and follow the conversation using the hashtag #Path2Cures.
04.24.2014	Marking the 40th anniversary of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, U.S. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined local and state leaders in the City of Plainwell to show how the federal program has benefited communities in Southwest Michigan. Upton began his visit with a walking tour of three major projects that CDBG funds have been used for, including demolition of the former Plainwell Paper Mill. The city bought the facility in 2006 after having sat vacant for six years and used CDBG dollars to eliminate blight and dangerous conditions, allowing for the site’s redevelopment. Upton’s visit also showcased public infrastructure development and downtown façade enhancements that were only made possible through CDBG. “It’s a tremendous program for our residents, businesses and cities,” said Upton, who has been a long-time supporter of the CDBG program. “We’re only as strong as our weakest link and this helps strengthen cities that have faced challenges. “Plainwell was dealt a major blow when the paper mill went out, but programs such as Community Development Block Grants have given the city the opportunity to work on some of the biggest challenges it faces with taking down chunks of a huge 250,000-square-foot facility and giving it new life.” Emilie Schada, downtown/economic development manager for City of Plainwell, said the CDBGs are tremendously important to the city because they allow officials to address the needs of their particular communities. “And that is what makes them so competitive as well,” she said. The CDBG program has been administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) since it was first authorized in 1974. During the four decades since, the program has provided essential funding to state and local governments to undertake housing, economic development, neighborhood revitalization, and various community development activities.
04.21.2014	​Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, announced today that Thomas Michael Crandell, of Kalamazoo, Mich., has been accepted to attend the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md. Upton recommended Michael for selection to the prestigious service academy and has personally congratulated him on the appointment. Michael, the son of Charlene and Thomas Crandell, is a senior at Gull Lake High School and also attends the Kalamazoo Area Math and Science Center. “It is a pleasure to announce Michael’s appointment to the Naval Academy,” Upton said. “Michael has excelled in the classroom and beyond, setting an example for his peers. I have no doubt that great things are in store for this fine young man and I applaud him for his interest in serving his country. “I encourage all local students who are interested in military service to contact my office.” Upton nominates students to military service academies from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in school and are interviewed by members of his Academy Advisory Board, which is made up of community leaders. The individual academies make the final decision on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office for further information at (269) 982-1986.
04.18.2014	Autumn Roth, a senior at St. Joseph High School in Berrien County, on Thursday evening was named the winner of the Congressional Art Competition for Michigan’s Sixth District by Congressman Fred Upton, who represents the district. Roth won for her digital photograph titled Heard? Growing up as armed conflicts were waged in Afghanistan and Iraq, Roth said the idea for the image came from pictures she has seen of women covered head to foot in burkas. The title of the piece was inspired by the saying that children should be seen but not heard. “The figure in the photograph is swathed in bright colors and bold patterns but you never see who she really is,” Autumn says. “She is seen but not heard.” Autumn said she hopes those who view her piece will compare and contrast their lives with the lives of women who are forced to completely cover themselves because of the world of expectations they must hold. “Heard? to me is a very feminist work, partially because I know the whole story behind it. It is a reminder to all societies of the importance of individuality and the importance of giving people a voice,” Autumn says. “I want them to walk away with a better appreciation for the freedoms we have in this country and a new respect for the beauty of the individual.” Roth will receive two invitations to the Congressional Art Competition reception in Washington, D.C., along with two free airline tickets from Southwest Airlines. Her work will hang in the Capitol along with the winners of the award from other Congressional districts. "The arts are a vital part of any community and I'm very pleased to see so much talent displayed in this show," Upton said. "Congratulations to Autumn for winning the Congressional Art Competition and congratulations to everyone who took part in the KIA area show.” Locally, more than 140 pieces of art were submitted for the Congressional Art Competition, which was held in conjunction with the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts 2014 High School Area Show. KIA show winners were awarded various cash prizes and scholarships. They are: Juror's Awards ($100 cash awards) -Skylar Sparks, Kalamazoo Central High School -Sarah Nielsen-Hanichen, Vicksburg High School -LaQuint Robinson, Water Street Glassworks -Travis Lind, Parchment High School -Noelle Ridley, Hackett Catholic Central High School -Nathan Stevens, Portage Central High School Kendall College of Art and Design of Ferris State University Portfolio Scholarship Awards (12 recipients; amounts range from $6,000-$16,000 over 4 years) -Christine Haifley, Portage Central High School -Ashton Holdridge, Watervliet High School -Madeline Kathryn LaSota, St. Joseph High School -Travis Lind, Parchment High School -Emily Milne, Kalamazoo Central High School -Tommy Moore, St. Joseph High School -Elijah Nykamp, Holland Christian High School -Brooklyn Parsons, St. Joseph High School -Noelle Ridley, Hackett Catholic Central High School -Hannah Schut, Homeschool, Kalamazoo, MI -Nathan Stevens, Portage Central High School -Constance Williams, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School Western Michigan University Gwen Frostic School of Art Scholarship Awards (7 recipients; $12,000 scholarships over 4 years) -Cameron Andrews, Kalamazoo Central High School -Adrian Young, Kalamazoo Central High School -Rocco Wyble, Lakeshore High School -Christine Haifley, Portage Central High School -Courtney Tennant, Vicksburg High School -Quentin DeCoursey, Water Street Glassworks -Ashton Holdridge, Watervliet High School The Cleveland Institute of Art (3 recipients; $40,000 scholarships) -Quentin DeCoursey, Water Street Glassworks -Taylor Hendrix, Lakeshore High School -Ashton Holdridge, Watervliet High School The Cleveland Institute of Art Pre-College Summer Program Scholarship -Quentin DeCoursey, Water Street Glassworks KIA Kirk Newman Art School Summer Scholarship Award -Irving Quintero, Kalamazoo Loy Norrix High School
04.10.2014	Upton: “The DOTCOM Act is a deliberate and transparent next step in this effort to ensure that freedom remains the principal tenet of the Internet.” share: f t Click here to watch Upton’s remarks House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today joined fellow members of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology in advancing legislation aimed at ensuring that freedom and openness remain principal tenets of the Internet. H.R. 4342, the Domain Openness Through Continued Oversight Matters (DOTCOM) Act of 2014, was drafted in response to the Obama administration’s recent proposal that asks the International Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) to explore ways to remove the United States from its oversight role of the Domain Name System (DNS). The DOTCOM Act would direct the Government Accountability Office – the U.S. government’s “watchdog” – to study the proposed changes and present a non-partisan evaluation before the administration may take action to modify the current DNS. “One of America’s greatest exports is our steadfast belief in freedom of speech, and the Internet has allowed us to share this ideal with the rest of the world. But as we all work to bring the Internet to people around the globe, there are governments and regimes that continue to restrict their citizens’ access to its vast information and communication tools,” said Upton in his opening remarks. “The Internet changed the world, and we must ensure the world does not change the Internet.” Currently, ICANN, a private nonprofit organization, manages a number of critical “back end” underpinnings of the Internet, such as Internet Protocol (IP) addressing and the DNS. The U.S. government – through the U.S. Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) – holds a stewardship role over the DNS by virtue of a contractual relationship with ICANN. On March 14, 2014, NTIA announced a proposal instructing ICANN to explore ways to remove the United States from its oversight role of the DNS and replace it with a different multi-stakeholder governance model. Before moving forward, the DOTCOM Act seeks a full assessment of the proposed changes and the possible consequences of such a transition to Internet freedom and openness. Last spring, Upton joined his House colleagues in voting unanimously to pass the bipartisan Internet Freedom Bill (H.R. 1580), which affirms U.S. policy to preserve a free and open Internet. That legislation still awaits action in the Senate.
04.09.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, applauded today’s Subcommittee on Energy and Power vote to approve legislation that would cut through the red tape blocking exports of U.S. liquefied natural gas (LNG) to our global allies. H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act, grants immediate approval of complete export applications currently field with the U.S. Department of Energy and modifies the process moving forward to ensure exports to our allies are no longer subject to necessary delays. “North America’s growing energy abundance offers a variety of opportunities to create jobs at home, enhance our standing in the world, and supplant the influence of Russia and Iran,” said Upton. “Exporting our surplus of natural gas can do all these things, but only to the extent that Washington will allow it to happen.” Department of Energy analysis finds that America has enough natural gas to meet domestic needs affordably while also supporting economically beneficial export markets in LNG. According to the Department, the U.S. economy will experience “net economic benefits” from allowing increased LNG exports. In addition to the economic benefits and jobs resulting from building new export facilities, opening new markets for American natural gas would encourage further production of domestic energy, helping to create additional jobs and support America’s manufacturing renaissance. The Washington Post recently praised increasing U.S. LNG exports as beneficial to both the U.S. economy and our allies: “The economic case for allowing natural gas exports is compelling on its own. Doing so would bring money into the country and uphold the vital principle that energy resources should flow freely around the globe, making the markets for the fuels the world economy needs as flexible and robust as possible. The more major suppliers there are following that principle, the less control predatory regimes such as Mr. Putin’s will have over the market.” The legislation also modifies the standard of review for future export applications, shifting the benchmark from Free Trade Agreement (FTA) countries to World Trade Organization (WTO) members. Under current law, LNG export facilities shipping gas to countries that do not have free trade agreements with the United States require an additional level of approval by the Department of Energy, a process characterized by extensive delays. To date, this administration has only approved six export applications and 24 applications are still awaiting action.
04.03.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, applauded President Obama today for signing the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act into law. The bill is the tenth Energy and Commerce Committee public health bill to become law in the 113th Congress (2013-2014). This law will redirect wasteful spending on political conventions to important pediatric research. “This law – part of Gabriella Miller’s incredible legacy – will help provide hope to kids and families all across the country, including the Kennedy family in Mattawan, Michigan, whose two little girls are courageously battling SMA. Gabriella’s unparalleled strength and optimism have been an inspiration to all,” said Upton. “We wish she were here with us today as we celebrate this milestone, and know she is smiling down as we mark this important step in our effort to accelerate the pace of cures and improve the public health.” NOTE: The House of Representatives approved the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education Support Reauthorization Act earlier this week. That bill will mark the eleventh Energy and Commerce public health bill to become law in the current Congress.
04.03.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined a bipartisan majority of his House colleagues today in passing legislation that seeks to protect the nation’s most-vulnerable workers by restoring the federal definition of “full-time” work to 40 hours per week. The legislation – H.R. 2575, the Save American Workers (SAW) Act of 2014 – would repeal a provision of the health care law that changes the definition of “full-time” employment to 30 hours per week. The provision relates to the law’s “employer mandate,” which requires many employers to provide approved coverage to full-time employees or face a significant fine. As a result, employers are incentivized to reduce part-time employee hours (e.g., those working between 30 and 36 hours per week) to fewer than 30 hours to avoid penalty under the law. “The first rule of health care is to do no harm. The 30-hour rule is yet another example of how the President’s health law is making it harder for families to make ends meet and more costly for small businesses to hire and expand their operation,” said Upton. “Speaking with employers back home, this provision is having a real and devastating impact on how folks in Southwest Michigan are doing business. The 30-hour rule and employer mandates means fewer work hours, less take-home pay, and fewer new hires.” A recent study by the Hoover Institution found that 2.6 million Americans making under $30,000 a year are most at risk of seeing their wages and hours reduced as a result of the 30-hour rule.
04.02.2014	Click here to watch Upton’s Q&A with EPA House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today asked U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy about the agency’s ongoing work to address the cleanup of the Allied Superfund Site in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Upton has been joined by U.S. Senators Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow in backing city officials and local residents who want to see total removal of the decades-old PCB-contaminated site, which sits atop the city’s largest drinking-water aquifer. Administrator McCarthy appeared today before Upton’s Subcommittee on Energy and Power and Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy for a joint hearing on the EPA’s budget for Fiscal Year 2015. “As you know, I have joined with both my two Senators – Levin and Stabenow – to try to seek the full removal of PCBs at the Allied superfund site there in Kalamazoo,” said Upton “There are still a number of issues yet to be resolved for which the feasibility study failed to account, such as the lack of recent data in monitoring of wells on site, the availability of alternative remediation technologies, and the reuse and redevelopment options. Can you assure us that these outstanding issues are going to be addressed before EPA issues the preferred cleanup options? And specifically, how is EPA going to account for the community’s redevelopment plans, moving forward?” “We certainly, Congressman, have heard from you and a number of others about the Allied paper site. And I need to take a close look at that and look at a variety of alternatives,” Administrator McCarthy replied. “As you know, we are going to be preparing a final cleanup plan for the summer. In advance of that, we’re going to have a hearing in the middle of April to take some more comment on this. We’re going to look at more water sampling there and we’ll make sure that we listen to all of the concerns and address them when we put that final cleanup plan together. And I appreciate all of the concerns that all of the Congress and Senate has indicated to us, but also the concerns of the communities around there.” Upton recently met again with Kalamazoo Mayor Bobby Hopewell and former Kalamazoo Public Services Director Bruce Merchant in his Washington, DC office on March 12, 2014, to discuss plans for the Allied Site’s cleanup and redevelopment. Last spring, Upton joined Sens. Levin and Stabenow in sending a letter to the EPA urging the “total removal of all PCB contaminated materials from the Allied Site.” Upton’s district staff has continued to attend the weekly meetings held by a grassroots coalition working to rid the city of the contaminated material. Upton has repeatedly stated that he backs the city’s desire to get rid of the contaminants. In 2008, when the EPA’s regional director in Chicago ordered contaminants from Plainwell to be added to the Allied site, Upton brought then-EPA Administrator Stephen L. Johnson to Kalamazoo. After learning of the situation, the Administrator ordered the EPA regional director to change the plan, and the contaminants were, instead, taken to a Detroit-area landfill qualified to handle such material.
04.01.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today heard from General Motors (GM) CEO Mary Barra and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) Acting Administrator David Friedman. The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hearing is part of the Committee’s ongoing investigation of GM’s and NHTSA’s response to consumer complaints related to stalling, airbag non-deployment, and ignition switch problems. GM has stated that the defects may have been linked to 31 frontal crashes and a dozen fatalities, including two teenagers in Upton’s own district. GM has recently recalled more than 2 million cars in the United States for problems related to the ignition switch. It has been over a decade since the enactment of the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (or TREAD) Act, which was passed by Congress and signed into law on November 1, 2000, to enhance the federal government’s ability to protect against auto safety defects. Upton authored the TREAD Act after spearheading an extensive investigation into the Ford-Firestone tire malfunctions as then-chairman of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. The legislation was intended to improve communication between auto manufacturers and the federal government and increase the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) ability to collect and analyze information about potential threats. --> Click here to watch Upton’s opening remarks --> Click here to watch Upton’s Q&A with GM CEO Barra The full text of Upton’s opening remarks follows: We know that with a two-ton piece of high-velocity machinery, there is in fact a zero margin for error; product safety is indeed a life or death issue. But sadly, vehicle safety has fallen short. And it’s not the first time. During the late summer of 2000, in this very room, I led the oversight hearings that examined the Ford-Firestone recalls. A tire malfunction was causing violent crashes, and Americans did not feel safe behind the wheel. We gathered testimony from the company and agency officials and reviewed thousands and thousands of pages of documents. And we found that the system indeed had failed. Information about the defective tires had been shared with the companies and with NHTSA. The parties failed to protect the public’s safety, and over 100 people died. After that investigation, I introduced the TREAD Act to correct many of the problems that contributed to the Ford-Firestone tragedy. That bill was meant to ensure data about safety is reported so that defects can be quickly identified and fixed – and lives ultimately saved. The TREAD Act has now been law since November 2000, yet here we are, investigating another safety failure. It’s déjà vu all over again. One month ago, GM issued a recall for an ignition switch defect in six vehicles, totaling 1.6 million cars. And last Friday, they recalled another 900,000 vehicles. GM acknowledges that a dozen people have died in automobile crashes associated with that defect. Two were teenagers from my own community. Testifying today are GM CEO Mary Barra and NHTSA Acting Administrator David Friedman, a first step in our quest to find out what went wrong. The committee’s purpose is the same as it was in 2000: making sure that drivers and families are protected and cars are safe. And I’ll repeat what I said at the first oversight hearing on Firestone tires in 2000: “today’s hearing is very personal to me, because I come from Michigan, the auto state, the auto capital of the world.” That is no less true today. Michigan is proud of its auto industry, and while Michigan citizens build cars, obviously we drive them, too. Documents produced to the committee show that both NHTSA and GM received complaints and data about problems with ignition switches and airbags. These complaints go back at least a decade. NHTSA engineers did crash investigations as early as ‘05 and twice examined whether complaints with airbags constituted a trend. GM submitted Early Warning Reports to NHTSA, including data about crashes in the recalled cars. With all this information available, why did it take so long to issue the recall? In this case, just as it was with the Ford-Firestone affair, it was news reports that brought the problem to the nation’s attention. This investigation of the recall is indeed bipartisan – as it should be. We’ll follow the facts where they lead us. And we will work until we have those answers, and can assure the public that indeed they’re safe. And I’d like to note that the Chairman of our CMT Subcommittee, Mr. Terry, will be joining us for questions this afternoon. With his subcommittee’s record on motor vehicle safety issues, he will be watching closely as this investigation unfolds so that he can take our findings and determine whether and what changes may be needed to our laws designed to keep drivers safe on the road. After all, our goal on every issue follows the “Dingell model” – identify the problem or abuse fully, and where needed, fix it with legislation so that it won’t happen again.
03.31.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement today on Congressman Dave Camp, R-Midland, who announced he will retire at the end of this year: "Michigan is losing an outstanding Representative and leader with Dave Camp's retirement announcement today. Dave never shied away from the challenge of being a governing Republican. He has a long record in support of jobs and improving the nation's economy in everything he touched. “I will genuinely miss the strong partnership we had with the unprecedented privilege of Dave at the helm of the Ways and Means Committee and me with the Energy and Commerce Committee."
03.28.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement today on Congressman Mike Rogers, R- Howell, who announced he will retire at the end of this year: "There's not a day that Mike Rogers has not put our national interest over everything else. He is one for whom every member, be they Republican or Democrat, has the greatest respect. "We witnessed the horrible attacks together on September 11 and ever since that day he has led the way to ensure America's safety. On a personal note, he is one of the finest individuals I have ever worked with and certainly will remain a treasured friend."
03.27.2014	In celebration of Women’s History Month, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, gave the following tribute in recognition of women’s rights pioneer Lucinda Hinsdale Stone (1814-1900). Upton made his tribute in the Congressional Record on March 27, 2014. The full text of Upton’s remarks follows: “Mr. Speaker, Women’s History Month is a time for all Americans to pay tribute to the generations of women who have made our world a better place in which to live. Today, it is my great honor to recognize Kalamazoo, Michigan’s Lucinda Hinsdale Stone for her efforts to advance education reform and women’s rights. “Lucinda was born 200 years ago this year, at a time in our history when women did not share the same rights as men. “Upon moving to Michigan in 1843 with her husband, Dr. James Stone, Lucinda became the first principal of the Ladies Department at the Kalamazoo Branch of the University of Michigan, which would soon become Kalamazoo College. Together, Lucinda and James Stone helped shape the school’s direction, in part by introducing coeducation and promoting abolitionism and women’s rights. “Lucinda flourished in her role and assisted in the education of a variety of professions and skills for women who came through her school. When Lucinda was ultimately forced to resign her office because of her advocacy for women’s rights, she devoted her life to women’s education and founded the Women’s Club Movement in Michigan. As our country faced a turning tide of abolition and women’s suffrage, Lucinda took it upon herself to educate and lecture from in her own home and doubled her efforts to give women everywhere a better chance. “Lucinda quickly became one of the foremost individuals in the state promoting women’s rights and soon her tireless battle to bring higher education to women spread her reputation from coast to coast. Susan B. Anthony would share the works of Lucinda Hinsdale Stone and affectionately gave her the title, the 'Mother of Women’s Clubs in Michigan. “In the more than 50 years that she served as a leader in Michigan, Lucinda watched her groups expand as the rest of the country caught on to the women’s rights movement. Twenty years before areas in the Northeast formed associations for women, Lucinda was leading the Kalamazoo Ladies’ Library Association as a model for the rest of the nation. That Association and its present members like Betty Lee Ongley – the first female mayor of neighboring Portage, Michigan – have continued to play a major role in keeping Lucinda’s legacy alive today. “Lucinda would go on to work in social reform movements and women’s organizations throughout the state and became a pillar for American women to turn to for strength and guidance. Her life’s work was recognized in 1890, when the University of Michigan bestowed upon Lucinda their first honorary doctorate to a woman. “She lived to watch her very own pupil, Madelon Stockwell, become the first woman to be granted admission to the University of Michigan, and watched as Kalamazoo College granted its first academic degree to a female student. The legacy of her work for women and education remains evident today. “Throughout her extraordinary life, Lucinda became friends with other suffragist and abolitionist leaders including Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucretia Mott, Lucy Stone, Antoinette Brown Blackwell, and the Grimké sisters. She was also a lifelong friend and admirer of Helen and Frederick Douglass, and even played host to Ralph Waldo Emerson. "Lucinda Hinsdale Stone represents the strength that we all hope to have in the face of oppression and inequality. Her lasting impacts have motivated women for generations and her name lives on in Michigan lore as one of the finest Americans to stand up for what they believe in.”
03.21.2014	​Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, announced today that Thomas Hurst, of Schoolcraft, Mich., has been accepted to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colo. Upton recommended Hurst for selection to the prestigious service academy and has personally congratulated him on the appointment. Hurst is the son of Edward and JoAnn Hurst. Hurst’s older sister, Chloe, is also attending the Air Force Academy. She was accepted following a nomination from the Congressman. “I am very pleased that Thomas will join his sister at the Air Force Academy,” Upton said. “Thomas has worked very hard. It’s an exhaustive selection process to go through in order to be accepted as a future cadet. The people of Southwest Michigan should be proud of Thomas, who has decided to serve his country.” Upton on Monday announced that Nathan James, of Saugatuck, had also been accepted to the Air Force Academy. “I encourage all local students who are interested in military service to contact my office,” Upton said. Upton nominates students to military service academies from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in school and are interviewed by members of his Academy Advisory Board, which is made up of community leaders. The individual academies make the final decision on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office for further information at (269) 982-1986.
03.17.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, announced today that Nathan James, of Saugatuck, Mich., has been accepted to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colo. Upton recommended James for selection to the prestigious service academy and has personally congratulated him on the appointment. James, the son of Douglas and Brittany James, is home schooled. “I am very pleased to be able to announce Nathan’s appointment to the Air Force Academy,” Upton said. “Nathan has worked very hard and has gone through an exhaustive selection process to get accepted as a future cadet. He is among the best of young people coming from Southwest Michigan who are selected to serve their country. “I am very proud of his accomplishment and encourage local students who are interested in military service to contact my office.” Upton nominates students to military service academies from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in school and are interviewed by members of his Academy Advisory Board, which is made up of community leaders. The individual academies make the final decision on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office for further information at (269) 982-1986.
03.14.2014	The U.S. House of Representatives voted today for legislation – H.R. 4015, the SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act – that seeks to permanently repeal and replace the flawed Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate formula (SGR) that is used to reimburse our nation’s physicians. The current Medicare payment system has been a source of continued uncertainty within the health care and senior communities. The existing system jeopardizes seniors’ access to care and threatens physicians who serve Medicare beneficiaries with substantial across-the-board cuts in reimbursement. Addressing the issue has been a top priority for Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Today is one step toward keeping the Medicare promise to our nation’s seniors, current and future,” said Upton, who has spoken with countless Michigan seniors and doctors on the issue. “The legislation would once and for all repeal the broken SGR and replace it with a system that promotes the highest quality of care for seniors, eases the burden on physicians who are struggling under an increasing number of government programs that take time away from patients, and promotes new forms of health care delivery and innovation with an eye on the future.” The House legislation replaces the broken payment formula and pays for the costs by delaying the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate for five years. “The President’s health care law was never ready for primetime. The administration has acted unilaterally on countless occasions to delay provisions of its own law – why not delay this provision as well? And in doing so, we can put those savings to better use by paying for a program that works and helps our most vulnerable: our nation’s seniors.” H.R. 4015 passed the House by a vote of 238 to 181 and now awaits consideration in the U.S. Senate. “We have never come this far in finding a permanent solution. But there is still much work to be done after today’s vote, and I call on Senator Ron Wyden to pick up the torch and work with Majority Leader Harry Reid to put politics aside, stand up for our seniors and doctors, and let’s solve SGR this year.” Enacted in 1997 as part of the Balanced Budget Act, the SGR has been a source of concern for physicians who serve Medicare beneficiaries and for the beneficiaries themselves. For more than a decade, Congress has enacted short-term legislative patches to delay the SGR cuts to physicians, causing great uncertainty for providers and patients, and has come at a great expense to American taxpayers. In July 2013, Upton’s committee unanimously approved bipartisan legislation (H.R. 2810) to permanently fix the flawed SGR. This February, Upton joined other House and Senate leaders in announcing a bicameral solution to replace the long-troubled Medicare payment system. “The physician community in general, and in the Kalamazoo and St. Joseph areas in particular, is extremely thankful for Fred’s leadership in fixing the everlasting SGR problem,” said Dr. Krishna Jain, MD, the founder of Advanced Vascular Surgery in Kalamazoo. “We appreciate his leadership, especially the input he has sought from doctors.” Upton was recently recognized by the American Medical Association (AMA) with its top government service award because of his tireless efforts to permanently repeal and replace the SGR.
03.13.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, welcomed today’s news that President Obama has signed bipartisan legislation to preserve Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore. The newly enacted legislation designates more than 32,000 acres of the Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore as wilderness areas. “This is a tremendous victory for Michigan residents and the countless visitors who are drawn to our lakeshores each year,” said Upton. “This law is the product of many years of bipartisan work to ensure the beauty of Sleeping Bear Dunes is enjoyed for generations to come. I applaud my colleague Congressman Dan Benishek and Senator Carl Levin for their tireless efforts to get the job done.”
03.13.2014	It has been over a decade since the enactment of the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (or TREAD) Act, which was passed by Congress and signed into law on November 1, 2000, to enhance the federal government’s ability to protect against auto safety defects. Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, authored the TREAD Act after spearheading an extensive investigation into the Ford-Firestone tire malfunctions as then-chairman of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. The legislation was intended to improve communication between auto manufacturers and the federal government and increase the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) ability to collect and analyze information about potential threats. This past Monday, Upton announced an investigation into the General Motors Company’s (GM) and NHTSA’s response to consumer complaints related to problems with ignition switches in certain vehicles. General Motors has announced the recalls of six vehicle models – over 1.6 million vehicles worldwide – to correct the problems and stated that the defects may have been linked to 31 frontal crashes and a dozen fatalities. In light of GM’s safety problems, the committee will seek a progress report on the TREAD Act’s implementation and pursue answers relating to the complaints filed with NHTSA, the response, and the eventual recalls. The committee also this week sent bipartisan letters requesting documents and information from NHTSA and GM. Watch Upton discuss the committee investigation on CBS Evening News HERE. Read the bipartisan committee letters to NHTSA and GM HERE.
03.11.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, has announced that his committee has opened an investigation into the General Motors Company’s (GM) and National Highway Traffic and Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) response to consumer complaints related to problems with ignition switches in certain vehicles. GM has announced the recalls of six vehicle models to correct the problems and stated that the defects may have been linked to 31 frontal crashes and 13 fatalities. It has been over a decade since the enactment of the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (or TREAD) Act, which was passed by Congress to enhance the federal government’s ability to protect against auto safety defects. Upton authored the TREAD Act after spearheading an extensive investigation into the Ford-Firestone tire malfunctions as then-chairman of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. The legislation was intended to improve communication between auto manufacturers and the federal government and increase NHTSA’s ability to collect and analyze information about potential threats. In light of GM’s safety problems, the House Energy and Commerce Committee will seek a progress report on the TREAD Act’s implementation and pursue answers relating to the complaints filed with NHTSA, the response, and the eventual recalls. Congress to Investigate GM Recall House Energy and Commerce Committee to Look at Slow Recall; Auto Maker Names Anton Valukas to Lead Internal Probe DETROIT— General Motors Co. faced new pressure from a powerful member of Congress to explain why it took nearly a decade to recall 1.6 million vehicles for faulty ignitions linked to 13 deaths, even as the auto maker hired a high-profile lawyer to lead its internal investigation and stepped up warnings to customers. Late Monday, the House Energy and Commerce Committee said it would launch an investigation into the slow recall and hold hearings. The committee's chairman, Michigan Republican Fred Upton, was the lead sponsor of the last comprehensive piece of auto safety legislation enacted by Congress, the Tread Act of 2000. That legislation was a response to a deadly series of accidents involving Ford Motor Co. Explorer sport-utility vehicles equipped with certain Firestone tires. The Tread Act set requirements for auto makers to more quickly report fatal accidents related to safety defects, and directed the U.S. Transportation Department to take steps to improve its ability to analyze data. "Did the company or regulators miss something that could have flagged these problems sooner? If the answer is yes, we must learn how and why this happened, and then determine whether this system of reporting and analyzing complaints that Congress created to save lives is being implemented and working as the law intended," Mr. Upton said in a statement Monday. … Click here to read the full Wall Street Journal story online Click here to read the Energy and Commerce Committee’s initial release on the investigation
03.11.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today congratulated Western Michigan University officials for their decision to name its new medical school after Dr. Homer Stryker, an orthopaedic surgeon who founded Stryker Corp., a Fortune 500 firm headquartered in Kalamazoo. “Dr. Homer Stryker’s lifelong efforts to develop innovative medical products and procedures have saved thousands, if not millions, of lives throughout the world,” said Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Naming WMU’s medical school after such a dedicated doctor who created the products needed by his patients so they could recover faster and lead fuller lives bodes well for those entering the new program.” The first 50 students are to begin classes this fall at the Western Michigan University Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine. “I can’t think of a more appropriate namesake,” WMU President John Dunn said today when the announcement was made. Dunn also revealed that Ronda E. Stryker, granddaughter of Homer Stryker, and her husband, William D. Johnston, a WMU trustee, donated more than $100 million to WMU three years ago to launch the medical school. Stryker Corp. has also made a commitment to support the medical school, which is being developed in collaboration with Kalamazoo teaching hospitals Borgess Health and Bronson Healthcare. The W.E. Upjohn Campus, a 350,000-square-foot facility in downtown Kalamazoo, was a gift from MPI Research in Mattawan, which is led by William U. Parfet, great-grandson of the campus namesake who started The Upjohn Co. pharmaceutical firm in 1886 in Kalamazoo. “This is just another example of how citizens, businesses, universities and local officials work together to make our community a vibrant place to live,” Upton said. “These gifts will go on for generations and make Southwest Michigan a better place for all of us. I applaud you and thank you.”
03.08.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement on the passing of former State Representative Lad Stacey. “Lad Stacey was always a respected state legislator all of his days. His often repeated ‘Top of the Morning’ characterized his optimistic, glass never-half-empty style. His work with Harry Gast and me established the successful partnership at the state and federal levels for the construction of US-31.”
03.07.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, announced today that Alexandria Miller, of Stevensville, has been accepted to attend the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, N.Y. Upton recommended Miller for selection to the prestigious service academy and has personally congratulated her on the appointment. Miller is a senior at Lakeshore High School in Stevensville. “It is truly an honor to announce Alexandria’s appointment to Kings Point,” Upton said. “Alexandria has worked hard and has gone through a rigorous selection process to earn a formal appointment to the Merchant Marine Academy. As a future midshipman, Alexandria will represent the very best that Southwest Michigan has to offer. “We are very proud of Alexandria’s accomplishments and desire to serve her country. I encourage local students who are interested in military service to contact my office.” Upton nominates students to military service academies from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in school and are interviewed by members of his Academy Advisory Board, which is made up of community leaders. The individual academies make the final decision on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office for further information at (269) 982-1986.
03.06.2014	The American Medical Association (AMA) has recognized Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, with the Dr. Nathan Davis Award for his outstanding leadership as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Upton was selected for the AMA’s top government service award because of his efforts to permanently repeal and replace the flawed Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate formula (SGR) that is used to reimburse our nation’s physicians. The current Medicare payment system has been a source of continued uncertainty within the health care and senior communities. The existing system jeopardizes seniors’ access to care and threatens physicians who serve Medicare beneficiaries with substantial across-the-board cuts in reimbursement. “Health care is about providing the highest quality of care and giving patients greater peace of mind. But for far too long the flawed Medicare physician payment system has been a cause of undue concern for our nation’s seniors and doctors,” said Upton. “Michigan seniors deserve to know that their trusted physician will continue to be there for them. For more than three years, my committee has helped lead the effort to protect our most vulnerable and create a system that secures stable payments for health care providers.” As its Chairman, Upton’s committee has a track record of bipartisan success in approving legislation to advance and improve public health, with eight health laws enacted in the 113th Congress alone. Among those is legislation to advance health research for millions of young patients who suffer from rare and genetic disorders, and the enactment of another bill to secure the nation’s drug supply chain and prevent a repeat of 2012’s deadly meningitis outbreak. Enacted in 1997 as part of the Balanced Budget Act, the SGR has been a source of concern for physicians who serve Medicare beneficiaries and for the beneficiaries themselves. For more than a decade, Congress has enacted short-term legislative patches to delay the SGR cuts to physicians, causing great uncertainty for providers and patients, and has come at a great expense to American taxpayers. In July 2013, Upton’s committee unanimously approved bipartisan legislation (H.R. 2810) to permanently fix the flawed SGR. This February, Upton joined other House and Senate leaders in announcing a bicameral solution to replace the long-troubled Medicare payment system. “The AMA strongly supports the SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act of 2014 and commends Representative Upton for his role in advancing it through Congress,” said AMA Chair David O. Barbe, M.D., MHA. “We are proud to celebrate Representative Upton’s leadership and dedication to improving our nation’s health care system throughout his 26 years of service.” This year marks the 25th anniversary of the Dr. Nathan Davis Awards. Since 1989, the AMA has honored 216 individuals with this recognition. "During the last quarter century of the Nathan Davis Awards, the AMA has sought to recognize government officials who go above and beyond the call of duty to improve public health,” said Dr. Barbe. “Award winners have come from every branch of government service and are a testament to the important role public officials play in creating and implementing health policy that benefits Americans.”
03.06.2014	Amidst the turmoil in Crimea, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today voted for legislation (H.R. 4152) to grant the Obama administration the authority provide loan guarantees to the country of Ukraine. H.R. 4152 passed the House this afternoon by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 385 to 23. “The United States and our European allies stand firmly behind the Ukrainian people during this tumultuous period,” said Upton. “This legislation will help strengthen Ukraine through its current transition and send a clear signal to Moscow that unlawful acts of aggression toward our Eastern European allies will not be tolerated. We will not turn back the clocks or our backs.” H.R. 4152 would make Ukraine eligible for U.S.-backed loan guarantees, allowing the Eastern European government to borrow funds to help provide critical services to the Ukrainian people. Funding would be provided within the existing State Department budget, so no new spending is needed for the United States to back these loans. Today, Upton’s Energy and Commerce Committee introduced bipartisan legislation to help expedite the export of U.S. liquefied natural gas (LNG) to our global allies, including Ukraine and other Eastern European nations currently at the mercy of Russian energy supplies. Consistent with the committee’s conclusions from its recent report, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act (H.R. 6) provides that all pending LNG export applications for which a notice has been published in the Federal Register as of March 6, 2014, will be granted without delay. “The turmoil in Ukraine underscores the problem with DOE’s unnecessarily sluggish LNG export approval process. Passing this legislation sends the clear signal that America intends to take full advantage of our energy resources, developing them not only for our own use, but to ensure the lifeline of U.S. gas supplies will be available to our allies, and that we will stand firm to Putin and supplant Russia’s influence,” said Upton. “I will continue to work with my colleagues on the committee, in leadership, and in the Senate to fix this problem as soon as possible. This is a critical piece of legislation for energy, economic, and national security.” Department of Energy analysis finds that America has enough natural gas to meet domestic needs affordably while also supporting economically beneficial export markets in LNG. According to the Department, the U.S. economy will experience “net economic benefits” from allowing increased LNG exports. The report found that while increased exports may impact domestic natural gas prices, the cost increases would be offset by jobs gained, revenue gained, and other economic benefits. The legislation also modifies the standard of review for future export applications, shifting the benchmark from Free Trade Agreement (FTA) countries to World Trade Organization (WTO) members. Under current law, LNG export facilities shipping gas to countries that do not have free trade agreements with the United States require an additional level of approval by the Department of Energy, a process characterized by extensive delays. To date, this administration has only approved six export applications and 24 applications are still awaiting action. Speaking on LNG exports in light of the situation in Ukraine, Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz remarked at an energy conference on Wednesday, "I would certainly welcome consultation in terms of how to go forward … This is obviously a very, very serious and important situation.”
03.05.2014	Upton: “It is so important for us to ensure that these vital arteries remain open to the commercial shipments and recreational traffic that help fuel the local economy." share: f t Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today announced $1.5 million in new funding to dredge the St. Joseph harbor. The funding comes as the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers releases its final allocation of funding for harbor operations and maintenance for the remainder of the current fiscal year. St. Joseph harbor was previously not slated to receive funding under the President’s FY 2014 budget and was not funded in the initial FY 2014 appropriation. Ensuring the St. Joseph harbor remains open and maintained has long been a top priority for Upton as the commercial harbor is essential to jobs and economic activity throughout Southwest Michigan and beyond. “This funding comes as welcome news for the countless families and small businesses in our area whose livelihoods depend upon the harbor remaining open and operational,” said Upton. “It is so important for us to ensure that these vital arteries remain open to the commercial shipments and recreational traffic that help fuel the local economy. I applaud the Army Corps for long recognizing the significant role that our harbors play here in Southwest Michigan and in communities throughout the Great Lakes region.” In January, Upton supported the bipartisan Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014, which funded the entire federal government for the remainder of FY 2014 and provided the Army Corps with an additional $200 million for operations and maintenance programs. Upton was recently part of a bipartisan coalition of House Members calling on the federal government to allocate at least 15 percent of the additional funding – or $30 million – to maintain navigational locks, harbor channels and structures, and connecting navigational channels within the Great Lakes. “As the Corps continues to contend with a tremendous backlog, it is all the more imperative for Congress to make sure harbor maintenance dollars are properly and fully used for their originally intended purpose,” said Upton. Upton is also a strong supporter of the bipartisan Realize America’s Maritime Promise (RAMP) Act (H.R. 335), which would ensure that all federal revenues collected for harbor maintenance through the Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) are fully used and not left unspent in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF). Revenue in the HMTF has increased over the past decade, with a current surplus of more than $7 billion. Because the HMTF is not a separate account within the federal budget, many of the HMT revenues paid by users have been left unspent as a budgetary gimmick to offset other federal spending. “This is great news for the port of Saint Joseph,” said Pete Berghoff, owner of Dock 63. “Over the last four to five years, the port has struggled with draft issues primarily due to low water levels on the lake and significant shoaling due to severe weather typically in the fall and winter. “The dredging will allow the port to return to a reasonable depth. This will allow the port to continue to operate serving the region with limestone, cement, and road salt. It will also allow the business within the port to move ahead with making significant capital investments in their facilities, equipment purchases, and most importantly adding jobs. “We are grateful to Congressman Upton and the people in his office that worked to make this happen.”
03.04.2014	Building an “Architecture of Abundance” to deliver vital energy supplies remains long-term solution to prevent future shortages share: f t Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, voted today for bipartisan legislation – the Home Heating Emergency Assistance Through Transportation (HHEATT) Act of 2014 (H.R. 4076) – to provide greater relief for families in Michigan and across the Midwest who continue to face higher home heating costs because of this season’s propane shortage. The HHEATT Act provides a guaranteed extension of U.S. Department of Transportation emergency declarations that allow commercial truck operators to drive for longer hours in order to expedite propane deliveries to affected states. H.R. 4076 seeks to give those impacted areas greater certainty for the remainder of the winter by extending these emergency declarations until May 31, 2014. “One of the harshest winters in memory has left millions of families across the Midwest and in Michigan in a dire situation,” said Upton. “This is an all-hands-on-deck effort, as the federal government, our governors, and industry work together to deliver emergency supplies to our communities as quickly as possible. It is also an unfortunate reminder that our nation’s energy infrastructure has not kept pace, even as domestic energy production has increased. While our immediate focus remains providing relief to families today, our long-term priority is building an Architecture of Abundance to create jobs and mitigate future shortages.” In February, Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, co-led a bipartisan letter urging the President to declare a state of emergency under the Stafford Act for areas affected by the shortage. Such a declaration would ultimately allow vehicles carrying emergency supplies of propane to exceed certain federal highway weight limitations. Michigan Governor Rick Snyder has already exempted drivers hauling propane supplies from hours-of-service regulations to help ease the shortage. This winter’s propane shortage began in the fall when a very wet harvest increased the demand for the fuel to help farmers dry their crops. Low propane inventories were further depleted by a second wave of high demand due to the winter’s extremely cold temperatures, causing a spike in price for consumers. Michigan is home to the largest number of propane-heated households than any other state impacted by the shortage – more than 320,000 homes, which accounts for 8 percent of all homes in the state. Since January 2011, U.S. propane production and exports have grown, with the growth in domestic production exceeding the growth rate of exports. But while the nation is in the midst of an historic energy boom, the infrastructure to deliver these important energy supplies has failed to keep pace. As Energy and Commerce Chairman, Upton remains focused on policies that support an Architecture of Abundance to deliver these resources, keeping energy supplies abundant and affordable while creating good-paying jobs.
02.26.2014	A longtime supporter of comprehensive tax reform, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, praised today’s unveiling of draft legislation by House Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp, R-Midland, to overhaul the nation’s complex tax code. “This proposal seeks to deliver the relief that Michigan families and employers have long awaited and deserve,” said Upton. “The status quo is unfair and an obstacle to domestic job creation and economic growth. Tax reform will boost Michigan's working families struggling to get by, and getting rid of harmful provisions like the medical device tax that has caused jobs to be lost right in our community is a critical step forward. I commend Dave Camp for achieving this milestone in his pursuit to create a system that is simpler and fairer for all Americans.” American taxpayers spend more than 6 billion hours and $168 billion each year on tax return preparation, according to the Taxpayer Advocate Service. At nearly 4 million words long, most Americans believe the current tax code is working against them and having a harmful impact on the economy. Among the tax reform plan’s many provisions, the legislation would lower the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 25 percent, while eliminating many special deductions and loopholes. It would also condense the seven tax rate brackets for individuals into two rates: 10 percent for those below roughly $75,000 and 25 percent for those above that threshold, with a 10 percent surtax on earnings above $450,000 for joint filers. In creating a pro-growth tax code, the draft bill would repeal the 2.3 percent excise tax on all U.S. sales of medical devices, which took effect on January 1, 2013, under the President’s health care law. Upton is an original cosponsor of bipartisan, standalone legislation to permanently repeal the harmful tax which has already resulted in substantial employee layoffs at U.S. medical device manufacturers like Kalamazoo-based Stryker Corporation. Congress last enacted tax reform legislation in 1986. Today’s announcement is the culmination of three years of work by Camp and his committee, which consists of 30 congressional hearings, 11 bipartisan tax reform working groups, and a bipartisan nationwide tour led by Camp and former Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, D-Mont.
02.26.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, voted today for legislation that would prohibit the administration from implementing new rules that seek to limit the activities and free speech of 501(c)(4) social welfare organizations. The Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act of 2014 (H.R. 3865) would prevent for one year the Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from issuing or finalizing proposed regulations that would prohibit 501(c)(4) nonprofit organizations from engaging in nonpartisan civic activities, such as voter registration drives, candidate forums, and get-out-the-vote efforts. Today’s vote follows last year’s exposure of IRS actions to selectively target conservative-leaning organizations. A one-year delay of the proposed rule would allow for completion of the ongoing IRS targeting investigation and permit a thorough public discussion of the proposed regulation. H.R. 3865 passed the House today by a bipartisan vote of 243 to 176 and now awaits consideration in the Senate. “Free speech is the lifeblood of our democracy. The federal government has a great responsibility to ensure that right is protected, whether or not the views expressed conform to those of the administration,” said Upton. “These new regulations would stifle the rights of the very organizations that the IRS was recently exposed for targeting. This commonsense legislation puts the IRS’s proposed rules on hold until Congress completes its investigation into the agency’s recent abuses of power.” Upton is also a cosponsor of the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination and Protection Act of 2013 (H.R. 1950), which seeks to prevent biased, politically-motivated discrimination by increasing the maximum penalty for IRS employee misconduct against taxpayers.
02.24.2014	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement upon the news that former Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman and fellow Michigan colleague John D. Dingell, D-Dearborn, will retire at the end of the 113th Congress. Dingell has served in the U.S. House of Representatives since December 1955. Before Upton became chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce in 2011, Dingell served as chairman from 1981 to 1994 and again from 2007 to 2008. Last year, Upton named the main committee hearing room in 2123 Rayburn in honor of John Dingell. “I have had the privilege of working with John Dingell as a staffer, fellow Michigan colleague, and followed in his footsteps as chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “It has been a real pleasure working closely with ‘Big John’ through the years on a number of issues facing our country. From spearheading the recovery of the auto industry, to ensuring our drug safety laws are complete, to updating our pipeline safety standards, he and I have had a strong bipartisan partnership. And, on the occasion we may disagree, we've never been disagreeable. The term ‘legendary’ will always be associated with the name ‘John Dingell.’ Following in his father’s footsteps, John always put his beloved Michigan constituents first throughout his nearly six decades of public service. “He assembled a strong and loyal staff who truly admired being on his team. By any standard, he will not only be viewed as the ‘Dean of the House,’ but also one with an incredible record of getting the job done. “John and Debbie are dear friends, and Amey and I wish them our heartfelt best as they embark upon this new chapter.”
02.19.2014	Local municipal leaders from around Southwest Michigan met Wednesday with Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, to alert him to the unanticipated financial hits their villages, townships and communities are facing as the result of the president’s health care bill. The 15 municipal leaders told Upton that the taxes levied on the health care plans they offer employees are going to impact their bottom lines. And at least one said he doesn’t know right now where the extra money will be found. “What are we going to do? I don’t know,” said Milt Richter, president of the village of Berrien Springs in Berrien County. “The Affordable Care Act isn’t as affordable as we thought it would be.” Berrien Springs, which has 11 full-time employees, has been socked with additional health insurance tax cost of more than $980 per month as a result of the ACA. “Our tax payers are going to have to be asked to pay more taxes,” Richter said during a press conference following the meeting. “That’s not going to make them happy.” Other community leaders said they saw their health-related costs going up from a few thousand dollars a year to more than $75,000 annually as a result of taxes and costs related to the president’s health care plan. Upton said he hopes other municipalities will let him know of the difficulties they are facing in order to look into fixing a health care plan that “has never been ready for primetime,” he said. “The President always said if you like your health care plan you can keep it,” Upton said. “That’s how it was sold to the American people. Now we’re finding it’s not true. “By hearing from our local municipalities and we collect their stories – and my colleagues around the country collect similar stories -- I am encouraged we can make some fixes.”
02.18.2014	Upton's "Drug Quality and Security Act" was signed into law by President Obama on November 27, 2013 share: f t Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, toured Perrigo Company PLC’s state-of-the-art packaging plant Tuesday and met with company Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph Papa as part of a celebration of the passage of the Drug Quality and Security Act. H.R. 3204 was introduced by Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and won bipartisan support due to its commonsense approach to the security of the finished drug supply chain, keeping counterfeit drugs off store shelves and providing a national standard to avoid a patchwork of different state regulations. The legislation was in part the result of a thorough year-long investigation led by Upton’s committee in the cause of the deadly meningitis outbreak of 2012. President Obama signed Upton’s bill into law on November 27. “Drugs going to Americans need to be safe regardless of whether they are prescription or non-prescription products,” Upton said. “We need to make sure all drugs are safe and that the companies that make them are protected.” Perrigo employees and executives applauded the passage of the new law. Perrigo the largest private-label non-prescription products maker in the world. Its North American headquarters is located in Allegan. “The Drug Quality and Security Act will help ensure consumer safety and trust,” Papa said. “This law will help the entire Perrigo team continue its mission of providing uncompromised, quality affordable health care products.”
02.10.2014	Upton: “Our Great Lakes support some 130,000 U.S. jobs and billions of dollars of economic activity each year. Ensuring our waterway system is navigable and operational to commercial shippers and recreational traffic must remain a national priority.” share: f t Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, is part of a bipartisan coalition of House Members calling on the federal government to provide the necessary resources to support and maintain our Great Lakes ports and waterways. The recently enacted Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014 – which funds the entire federal government for the current fiscal year – provided the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers with an additional $200 million for operations and maintenance programs. In a letter led by Reps. Bill Huizenga (R-MI) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Upton and his Great Lakes colleagues requested that the government allocate at least $30 million – or 15 percent of the increased funding – to maintain navigational locks, harbor channels and structures, and connecting navigational channels within the Great Lakes Navigational System (GLNS). Upton is a longtime advocate for Lake Michigan’s commercial and recreational harbors, which support countless local jobs and ensure the delivery of important commodities to the region. “Our Great Lakes support some 130,000 U.S. jobs and billions of dollars of economic activity each year,” said Upton. “Ensuring our waterway system is navigable and operational to commercial shippers and recreational traffic must remain a national priority.” Read the full text of the letter to the Honorable Jo-Ellen Darcy, Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) below. Click HERE to view a copy of the letter. As Great Lakes Representatives, we write to call particular attention to the Great Lakes Navigation System (GLNS), which is the backbone of our nation’s manufacturing, industrial, building, and agricultural economies. Each year, about 145 million tons of commodities are carried through the GLNS. The materials transported include fuel that powers homes and businesses, limestone and cement to construct roads and bridges, iron ore to produce steel, chemicals and other raw materials for manufacturers, and agricultural products to feed our nation and the world. This mode of transport has both economic and environmental advantages compared to alternative transportation options, supports about 130,000 jobs in the U.S., and generates over $18 billion in revenues. Despite the benefits the GLNS provides, inadequate funding and maintenance has resulted in a tremendous backlog of dredging projects that have forced vessels to light load, grounded vessels, impeded safe navigation, and closed harbors and threatened other harbors with closure. To further exacerbate the problem, the water levels of a number of the Great Lakes have reached record lows in the last few years. The impacts of the lack of dredging and other required maintenance, including lock improvements, breakwater repairs, and construction of dredged material disposal facilities, have economic consequences that hinder economic growth. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 provided the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the Corps) with additional funding above the Administration’s request for Civil Works Operations and Maintenance (O&M). Of these additional funds, $128 million was provided for deep-draft harbor and channel maintenance, $40 million was provided for small, remote, or subsistence maintenance, $25.72 million was provided for navigation maintenance, and $2.2 million was provided for regional sediment management programs. This totals almost $200 million in additional O&M funding provided by the Congress for navigation-related programs applicable to the GLNS. We believe that there are many GLNS projects which meet several of the criteria for evaluating projects for allocation of the additional O&M funding, as described in the explanatory statement accompanying the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014: “The Corps…shall consider giving priority to the following: ability to complete ongoing work maintaining authorized depth and width of harbors and shipping channels, including where contaminated sediments are present; ability to address critical maintenance backlog; presence of the U.S. Coast Guard; extent to which work will enhance national, regional, or local economic development, including domestic manufacturing capacity;…for harbor maintenance activities, total tonnage handled, …energy infrastructure and national security needs served, lack of alternative means of freight movement, and savings over alternative means of freight movement; number of jobs created directly by funded activity; ability to obligate funds allocated within the fiscal year, ability to complete the project, separable element, or project phase within funds allocated; and the risk of imminent failure or closure of the facility.” In order to restore the functionality of the GLNS, we urge the Corps to allocate at least $30 million from the above-described Congressionally-added appropriations to maintain navigational locks, harbor channels and structures, and connecting navigation channels within the GLNS. This request represents only 15% of the additional funding provided for those programs. Thank you for your consideration of this request. We look forward to working with you to improve the nation’s water resources, including the GLNS.
02.04.2014	Upton: “The search for cures must be an all-hands-on-deck effort. This landmark effort exemplifies the very best of a public-private collaboration, and we in Congress also want to do what we can in the name of breakthrough research.” share: f t House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, applauded today’s announcement of the Accelerating Medicines Partnership – a five-year public-private collaboration between the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and many of the world’s largest pharmaceutical companies, including Kalamazoo employer Pfizer. The Accelerating Medicines Partnership seeks to make discoveries regarding Alzheimer’s, Type 2 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and lupus with the hope that they will ultimately find new drugs, better treatments, and more cures for these diseases. “The search for cures must be an all-hands-on-deck effort. This landmark effort exemplifies the very best of a public-private collaboration, and we in Congress also want to do what we can in the name of breakthrough research,” said Upton, a longtime champion of health research. “Health care is first and foremost about providing the highest quality of care for patients, and this ultimately means greater innovation and more medical breakthroughs from our nation’s top minds. I applaud the leadership and initiative of all those involved in the Accelerating Medicines Partnership and am hopeful that their work will lead to more cures and treatments for patients and more peace of mind for families affected by those diseases.” WALL STREET JOURNAL: Drug Companies Join NIH in Study of Alzheimer’s, Diabetes, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Lupus Ten big drug companies that have spent billions racing one another to find breakthroughs on diseases like Alzheimer's have formed an unusual pact to cooperate on a government-backed effort to accelerate the discovery of new medicines. Under a five-year collaboration to be announced on Tuesday, the companies and the National Institutes of Health have agreed to share scientists, tissue and blood samples, and data. They aim to decipher the biology behind Alzheimer's, Type 2 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, and to thereby identify targets for new drugs. The price tag, roughly $230 million, is relatively small: The global drug industry spends about $135 billion a year on research and development. But the collaborators seek something money can't buy. By pooling their brightest minds and best lab discoveries they hope to put together a research system that can decipher the diseases in ways each hasn't been able to on its own. Diseases like Alzheimer's and diabetes "are looming tsunamis," says Elias Zerhouni, research-and-development chief of Sanofi SA, a participant. Deciphering them "could not be done by any single organization. Even the NIH, with all of its might, doesn't have all of the solutions inside it. And no one company can do it." The pact is unusual because drug companies are traditionally secretive about their science, rushing to acquire patents to protect rights to potential future drugs. The new agreement bars participants from using any discovery for their own drug research until the project makes data public on that discovery. "The moment the project results are out," says David Wholley, director of research partnerships of the Foundation for the NIH, "all-out competition resumes to develop the winning drug. And that's what the patients want." Taking a page from the "open-source" movement that has swept the software world, the group will share all findings with the public, for anyone to use freely to conduct their own experiments. The alliance involves rivals such as Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., Johnson & Johnson and GlaxoSmithKline PLC. A number of foundations, including the American Diabetes Association and the Alzheimer's Association, have agreed to back the project and to help recruit patients for trials. Most of today's drug-development programs fail, often in the expensive clinical-trial phases in which a company tests a drug on patients. Frequently, the failure happens because the company has an imperfect understanding of the disease at an early research stage before it begins looking for a potential drug. The new pact involves that early stage. Under the plan, dubbed the Accelerating Medicines Partnership, the collaborators hope to gain a better understanding of how each disease works, and then use that knowledge to find molecules, or "targets," that play important roles in the courses that each disease can take and could be attacked with potential drugs. The plan also seeks to create methods to better measure how a disease is progressing and is responding to treatment. Getting more targets right early on should reduce costly failures later. "A drug company really wants to know where it should put its next billion-dollar bet in a new area of therapeutics," says NIH Director Francis Collins, who spearheaded the effort and is well known for having led the federal human-genome project. The payoffs could be better medicines for lucrative markets. The market in 2018 could be about $60 billion for diabetes treatments and $4.6 billion for Alzheimer's drugs, says EvaluatePharma, an industry-analysis firm. Analysts say a more-effective Alzheimer's drug could more than double the market. There are already approved drugs for the four ailments, but Alzheimer's lacks one that can slow its memory-robbing march, and all of the diseases lack cures. … Read the complete story online here.
02.03.2014	One month into the second session of the 113th Congress, the perfect voting streak held by Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, continues. According to Congressional Quarterly’s annual vote studies, Upton is the only Member of the U.S. House of Representatives to have a perfect record of voting attendance since the beginning of 2010 (see: 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013). “Congress is entrusted by the American people to uphold our Constitution and make sure their voices are heard and represented – it is an honor to serve and a responsibility that I have never taken lightly,” said Upton. “I am focused on finding bipartisan solutions that support jobs and expand opportunities for all families in Southwest Michigan. Listening to those I am elected to represent and knowing the impact that legislation will have here at home are critical when the important votes need to be cast.” Upton’s four-year streak is shared by Senators Susan Collins of Maine, Charles Grassley of Iowa, and Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. CQ reports that the House held 2,902 roll call votes between 2010 and 2013, while the Senate held 1,076. A public record of Upton’s voting history – including legislative text, final vote results, and Upton’s position – is updated daily on his official website: /voterecord. Note: Congressional Quarterly reports that other House and Senate Members have recorded perfect attendance, but were not eligible for all votes since 2010.
02.01.2014	Based on ideas outlined by President Obama during this week’s State of the Union address, House Republicans have identified areas of agreement where we can achieve bipartisan success. Among these areas of common ground are federal research, job training, workplace rules, and natural gas production. share: f t ** Click HERE to watch Fred's remarks ** Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, was featured in the Weekly Republican Address highlighting areas of common ground where Congress and the President can work together to help grow the economy, create jobs, and expand opportunity for all Americans. Based on ideas outlined by President Obama during this week’s State of the Union address, House Republicans have identified areas of agreement where we can achieve bipartisan success. Among these areas of common ground are federal research, job training, workplace rules, and natural gas production. Weekly Republican Address House Energy & Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI): You may not have been thinking about it at the time, but on Tuesday, when the president was delivering the State of the Union, we were observing a tradition prescribed by our Constitution. All branches of government and all walks of life gathering round in the people’s House. It is democracy at its finest. But these blessings do come with responsibilities. The Constitution also requires the president and the Congress to heed the will of you, the people, and work together to carry out the business of the country. So in that spirit, Republicans have identified four areas of bipartisan common ground that the president talked about in his speech. Even better, these are all areas where the House has already acted and we can move the ball forward without delay. We’d like to share these ideas with you now. Representative Gregg Harper (R-MS): Well, for example, the president talked about supporting federally funded research to unleash more great discoveries. We agree. More must be done to prioritize the resources we have for the research we need. The Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act would eliminate public funding for political party conventions and instead fund pediatric research at the National Institutes of Health. We’re talking about everything from cancer, autism, and Fragile X Syndrome to the rarest genetic disorders. No, we can’t fix it all, but surely creating a lifetime of hope and opportunity for our most vulnerable kids is more important than subsidizing week-long political pep rallies. Representative Martha Roby (R-AL): We also want to do all we can to help hardworking Americans balance the demands of family and work. Whether it's for taking a child to the doctor or taking care of aging parents, many Americans need more flexibility in their jobs. The president talked some about this, saying we need to fix workplace rules from the “Mad Men” era. I’m glad he raised this issue. The Working Families Flexibility Act allows workers in the private sector the option of using their overtime toward paid time off – or comp time – if that's what they'd rather have. Government employees already have this option, so why not give private sector workers the same choices? Our bill would finally replace restrictions that, believe it or not, have been in place since 1938, long before Don Draper’s time. Representative Susan Brooks (R-IN): Of course more must be done for the millions of Americans who are having such a hard time finding a job. One thing the president talked about is ensuring workers can get the right skills for the right jobs. We agree this is critical. As someone who worked at a community college in job training, I know our economy has changed, but the way we train our workers has not. The SKILLS Act would consolidate the dozens of job training programs on the books and put the focus on programs that work. Programs that actually lead to jobs. All while strengthening the vital relationship between our community colleges and job training programs. I strongly believe this legislation would create an opportunity for every American to find a good paying job. Chairman Upton: We not only want Americans working again – we want them building. The president talked about how natural gas production is good for our economy and for our jobs. We couldn’t agree more. And in a bitterly cold winter, in my home state of Michigan and across much of the nation, where the demand for electricity is high, and heating bills even higher, the time is ripe for action. But our infrastructure has not kept pace, which is why we must build an Architecture of Abundance to help create jobs today and keep energy affordable tomorrow. The Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act cuts red tape to ensure that pipelines can be built. It connects natural gas supplies with new manufacturing plants. And it is another step towards a real all-of-the-above energy policy. These four bills cover a lot of ground, I know, but they are all about making life work for more Americans. And again, they need only a vote in the Senate - because we’ve already passed them in the House - to make it to the president’s desk. To help push things along, Republican leaders have sent a letter to President Obama laying out all this common ground, and we are eagerly awaiting his reply. We believe this can be a year of bipartisan action, a moment when speeches give way to solutions. The American people never let us down, and we cannot let them down either.
01.31.2014	In this weekend’s Weekly Republican Address, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, will discuss the importance of finding common ground to help create jobs and expand opportunities for families in Michigan and across the United States. “To move our economy forward, we must work together on those issues where we can find common ground,” Upton said. “The House has acted on several bipartisan bills that will create jobs, embrace our energy abundance, and help improve the health and quality of life for American families." The message echoes a letter House Republican leaders sent to President Obama on Thursday, which identified four initial areas covered in the State of the Union address “where the House has already acted and we believe we can work together without delay.” Those issues and legislation include: supporting job training through the SKILLS Act; promoting natural gas production through the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act; supporting women and families in the workplace through the Working Families Flexibility Act; and advancing federally funded research through the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act. Upton, who serves and Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, will deliver the address along with Reps. Susan Brooks (R-IN), Gregg Harper (R-MS), and Martha Roby (R-AL). The text and the audio of the Weekly Republican Address will be released Friday afternoon and embargoed until Saturday, February 1 at 6:00 a.m. ET, when it will be available on Speaker.gov to view and download.
01.31.2014	The U.S. Department of Defense today announced that the Fort Custer Training Center in Battle Creek, Michigan, is now one of four locations under consideration for a potential additional missile defense site in the continental United States. Today’s announcement follows an extensive site evaluation conducted by the Missile Defense Agency that was first announced in September 2013. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined Major General Gregory J. Vadnais, the Adjutant General and Director of Military and Veterans Affairs for Michigan, in applauding today’s announcement. “Battle Creek is a strong military community with a proud history of supporting our soldiers, veterans, and their families,” said Upton. “Southwest Michigan has the critical infrastructure in place, making Fort Custer uniquely well suited for this important national security program. We are also fortunate to be home to organizations like Southwest Michigan First and Battle Creek Unlimited that help drive economic growth in our region and support such development. “While strengthening our national security, construction of this project would bring billions of dollars into the local community and result in the creation of countless jobs.” Fort Custer now advances to a 24-month phase that will assess the environmental impacts at each of the sites. The process encourages public involvement and will involve public meetings, written comments, and public review. “We are very pleased that the Battle Creek site was selected by the Missile Defense Agency as one of the final four candidates,” said Major General Vadnais. “As the ballistic missile threat from hostile regimes like Iran and North Korea continues to grow, it is vital to ensure our homeland remains protected. We strongly feel that this location is well suited and would serve the national interest.” The other sites currently under consideration are Camp Ravenna in Ohio, Fort Drum in New York, and Portsmouth SERE Training Area in Maine.
01.29.2014	U.S. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, voted today for a bipartisan, bicameral agreement on a farm bill that sets U.S. agricultural and food policy for the next five years. Upton praised the legislation for providing greater certainty to Michigan farm families and for including meaningful reforms to reduce the deficit and protect taxpayer dollars. The Agricultural Act of 2014 (H.R. 2642) passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 251 to 166. The Senate is soon expected to approve the package, and the President is expected to sign it into law. “This bipartisan agreement gives our Michigan farmers much-needed certainty to plan for the future,” said Upton. “Keeping Michigan’s agricultural industry thriving is absolutely vital to our continuing economic recovery. The Farm Bill helps Michigan farmers compete globally, create jobs, and keep a safe supply of local food on our plates. “The new specialty crop provisions are particularly important for our region, which boasts some of the greatest crop diversity in the nation. Finally, this agreement saves taxpayers billions of dollars by eliminating unnecessary subsidies and making long-overdue reforms to eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse.” The overall agreement saves taxpayers $23 billion in mandatory spending, in part by repealing or consolidating nearly 100 duplicative federal programs. The agreement also makes the first bipartisan reforms to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) – formerly known as food stamps – since the welfare reforms of 1996, while still maintaining critical food assistance to families in need. H.R. 2642 notably reauthorizes the disaster loan program and includes assistance for Michigan’s specialty crop producers who have been hit particularly hard in recent years by weather that decimated entire harvests of some fruits and vegetables in the area. Russ Costanza, owner of Russell Costanza Farms in Sodus, Michigan, praised today’s House passage and underscored the importance of new specialty crop provisions to area growers. “The Farm Bill gives Michigan farmers – for the first time ever – the opportunity to have protection and insurance on specialty crops at an inexpensive cost to taxpayers.” Congress last passed a comprehensive Farm Bill in 2008, and has since approved a number of short-term extensions. Without further congressional action, federal commodity programs would have reverted back to permanent agricultural laws that went on the books in 1938 and 1949. Such a move would make many farmers ineligible for federal assistance, which would cause consumer prices to skyrocket.
01.28.2014	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement this evening following President Obama’s State of the Union address: “I was pleased with the President’s tone, which did not take the heavy partisan line that some expected. Yes, we can build on some of the bipartisan successes we have seen over the last couple months on the budget and farm bill as we look to immigration and real tax reform. I was encouraged to hear the President again talk about his commitment to lower tax rates and promote job growth and innovation here at home. We need a year of action – not dysfunction.”
01.16.2014	Click here to watch Upton’s full remarks WASHINGTON, DC – Since the botched rollout of the HealthCare.gov website, the administration has failed to provide adequate information on the number of Americans who are actually enrolled through an exchange or basic demographic information. After more than three months, the public still does not know how many Americans are enrolled in an exchange plan and who is participating. Without this information, there is no way to measure how well the $2 trillion program is meeting the administration’s stated goals. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, spoke on the House floor today to demand greater transparency from the administration and to urge his colleagues to support H.R. 3362, the Exchange Information Disclosure Act. This commonsense and bipartisan legislation would simply require the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide the American public and Congress with weekly reports on the status of HealthCare.gov. These reports will provide key metrics regarding the website, including unique visits, accounts created, qualified health plan selection, and Medicaid enrollment. This information is vital to assess the law’s progress and allow state insurance commissioners to better understand and predict future enrollment trends and prices. H.R. 3362 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 259 to 154, and now awaits consideration in the Senate. Today’s vote comes the week after the House voted to require HHS to notify Americans in the event their personal information is stolen or unlawfully accessed through the health law’s exchanges. The text of Upton’s remarks as delivered on the House floor follow: I rise in strong support of H.R. 3362, “The Exchange Information Disclosure Act.” This bill would require that HHS provide weekly progress reports regarding the President’s health care law, an attempt to ensure greater transparency from an administration that has done everything that it can so far to bury the facts when it comes to its signature health care law. Remember, this is the administration that knew millions of Americans would receive cancelation notices, but they only acted to allow people to keep their health care plans that they had and liked after we forced their hand back a few months ago. And perhaps by acting today, we can again force them to do the right thing and share basic information with policymakers and the public about how the law is working or not. In building HealthCare.gov for the October 1 start of open enrollment, the administration chose not to allow Americans to window shop and find accurate and reliable prices of health care plans in the exchange. Over the last 17 weeks since the health law was launched, this administration has released enrollment figures on just a handful of occasions. And we’re still left asking the most important question: “Who’s paid?” Instead, the administration has gone to great lengths to redefine “enrollment” as the number of folks who have “selected” a plan through the exchanges. These numbers simply don’t tell us the true status of the law however. More than three months after the start of open enrollment, we still don’t know how many Americans have actually enrolled in health plans by paying their first month’s premium. Just one day before the start of open enrollment, Secretary Sebelius defined success as enrolling 7 million Americans by the end of March of 2014. The administration has since distanced itself from enrollment being a measure of success at all. If enrolling individuals in health plans is not the goal, what is? Preventing access to reliable data about the exchanges is not exactly what you would expect from the self-proclaimed “most transparent administration in history.” It should not take a vote in Congress to get basic information from the administration, but without voluntary transparency, we don’t have any other choice. The bill before us would require HHS to provide accurate, useful figures about enrollment and the operation of the exchanges on a weekly basis. It also is going to require HHS to report to the American people other key metrics, including demographics of enrollees, Medicaid enrollment, regular reporting on ongoing problems with HealthCare.gov and HHS’s efforts to address those issues. The President’s health care law will cost the taxpayers an estimated $2 trillion over the next decade. At the very least, the administration should provide the American people regular and ongoing information about its implementation. There is no reason for the administration to keep the public and the Congress in the dark. Whether the news is good or bad, it is time for full disclosure. I urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I applaud Mr. Terry for his leadership.
01.15.2014	Building upon the bipartisan budgetary groundwork set by Congress in mid-December, the U.S. House of Representatives today passed comprehensive legislation (H.R. 3547) to fund the entire federal government for the fiscal year. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, praised the bipartisan funding measure, which passed the House by a vote of 359 to 67 and now awaits consideration in the U.S. Senate. “To address our challenges, we need thoughtful, bipartisan solutions. While not perfect, this agreement goes a long way to break the dysfunction that has paralyzed our nation’s capital,” said Upton. “This bill provides the necessary funding to keep our federal government operational while building upon the successful work of recent years to reach a balanced budget and reduce our national debt for future generations. This bill also looks after our nation’s most vulnerable by restoring critical funding for national priorities like Head Start and life-saving research at the National Institutes of Health.” H.R. 3547 provides for a total of $1.012 trillion for 2014 government operations, abiding by the $520.5 billion defense and $491.7 billion non-defense budget caps set in December 2013 by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (also known as the “Ryan-Murray Agreement”). H.R. 3547 cuts federal spending for the fourth year in a row – the first time since the Korean War – bringing total 2014 spending some $21.4 billion below last year’s post-sequester spending levels. While reducing overall spending, the bill replaces many of the budget sequester’s arbitrary, across-the-board cuts and prioritizes funding for programs that serve the nation’s most vulnerable, including: biomedical research, special education, substance abuse services, and veterans affairs. For summaries of the 12 appropriations bills within H.R. 3547, including program funding levels, click here.
01.10.2014	Click here to watch Upton’s floor remarks WASHINGTON, DC – House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, praised the House of Representatives today for passing H.R. 3811, the Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act, by an overwhelming bipartisan majority. Introduced and advanced by Upton’s committee, this commonsense legislation would require the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to notify Americans, within two business days, in the event that their personally identifiable information is jeopardized on the health law’s exchanges. The investigation led by Upton’s committee into the health law’s failed rollout has raised serious questions about the functionality and readiness of the health law. For months administration officials testified that implementation was “on track,” but documents uncovered reveal that was clearly not the case. Now, the administration’s insistence that everything is secure is rightfully met with skepticism. Despite the administration’s vocal opposition to the effort to boost transparency and consumer protections, a veto-proof House majority voted 291 to 122 in favor of H.R. 3811. The legislation now awaits action in the Senate. Upton spoke on the House floor today in strong support of the commonsense measure. The text of Upton’s comments as prepared for delivery follow. I rise in strong support of H.R. 3811, the “Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act of 2014.” Security and transparency. Both are critically important to all Americans, and the public expects and deserves to have both when it comes to health care. Sadly, the administration has failed to deliver. This important bill seeks to provide peace of mind to folks in Michigan and across the country who have submitted personal information to a health insurance exchange. Americans have a right to know in the event their sensitive personal information provided to an exchange is compromised - especially as it is the law’s individual mandate that forces them to purchase government-approved health coverage. Why wouldn’t we want the public to know? And be alerted right away? This commonsense bill would require the administration to promptly inform individuals within two business days if their personal information has been stolen or unlawfully accessed through an exchange. Through the Energy and Commerce Committee’s thoughtful oversight, we have uncovered troubling information regarding the security of the health law’s exchanges. We have found that the administration did not perform a full Security Control Assessment before HealthCare.gov opened for business on October 1. We have also learned that, just days before HealthCare.gov went live, senior officials at HHS expressed serious concerns regarding the protection of Personally Identifiable Information entered into the website. These facts, on top of the fact that the administration has repeatedly misrepresented the functionality and readiness of the health law, raise significant questions regarding the security of HealthCare.gov and information available in the exchanges. While Republicans and Democrats may disagree on the merits of the president’s health care law, I think we should all agree that Americans deserve to be notified if their personal information is put at risk by this law. I thank Mr. Pitts for putting security and transparency above politics in authoring this thoughtful bill. I urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I yield back.
01.08.2014	Young children make up more than half of the roughly 3 to 5 million poison exposures that occur in the United States every year, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. In an effort to keep them safe, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, took to the House floor today to urge his colleagues to support the nation’s 57 Poison Control Centers by passing H.R. 3527, the Poison Center Network Act. Advanced by Upton’s Energy and Commerce Committee in mid-December, H.R. 3527 reauthorizes funding for the Poison Control Center’s 24-hour toll-free hotline as well as the national media campaign to promote public health education, poison prevention, and Poison Control Center utilization. The bipartisan bill also continues the poison center grant program, which is used to establish and operate Poison Control Centers, like the Michigan Regional Poison Control Center at the Children’s Hospital of Michigan in Detroit. H.R. 3527 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 388 to 18 and now awaits further consideration in the U.S. Senate. Text of Upton’s floor remarks: Well thank you, Mr. Speaker. And I want to thank my friends, Mr. Engel, the lead Democratic cosponsor of this bipartisan legislation, as well as Mr. Terry, who has helped champion this – not only in this Congress, but for the last number of years as well. This bill needs to get done. H.R. 3527 is really good legislation and it’s bipartisan. It funds more than 50 poison control centers across the country. And in 2012, almost 4 million calls were managed by our nation’s poison control centers. These centers and the physicians, the nurses, the pharmacists, and toxicology specialists who staff them, save lives by providing free and confidential health services regarding potential exposure to harmful toxins 24/7 and in 150 different languages. So let me tell you about Michigan. The Michigan Regional Poison Control Center at DMC Children's Hospital in Detroit is one of the largest and busiest poison centers in the country, offering leadership in new data collection processes and identification of new trends in poisonings. The center provides assessment, triage, management and continued monitoring of more than 90,000 poison exposures in Michigan every year at no direct cost to the patient, the practitioner, or the health care institution. Poison centers like this save money, as many of these crisis calls avert an expensive trip to the emergency room. In fact, in a 2012 report by the independent Lewin Group determined that the nation’s poison centers save more than $1.19 billion in avoided medical utilization and reduced hospital length of stay every year. In addition, every $1 of funding saves about $13 in unnecessary health care costs and lost productivity in the country. Our nation’s poison centers exemplify successful public-private partnerships with federal funds providing only 18 percent of the poison centers budget. This partnership saves the federal government a lot of money while also delivering access to critical services for Americans across the country, let alone, the lives that we save. So I would ask every one of my colleagues to support this very important, bipartisan legislation. And again I want to commend the leadership of Mr. Terry and Mr. Engel for their continued effort on this to get ‘er done. I yield back the rest of my time.
12.24.2013	As we celebrate the season’s holidays, I’d like to take a moment to reflect on the blessings in our lives and say thank you to all those who make them a bit easier and a lot safer. In particular, I hope everyone will take a few minutes to think of the brave men and women in our armed services, especially those serving in hot spots around the globe, who help keep the peace and allow us to be safe during these troubled times. I want us to remember, too, their families, especially those living near us, who can’t be with their loved ones for Christmas. It’s my wish that all of us will let them know how much we appreciate the work they do to keep the home fires burning. And how grateful we are of the work these courageous service men and women do. We thank them for their work and sacrifice. I am so proud of them all. There are so many folks to thank for their work, from the cop walking the beat, to the bus driver who delivers passengers safely to their destinations, to the teacher who opens up a new world to a child as he or she masters a new skill. Even the barista at the coffee shop deserves an extra smile and thanks – that cup of joe may be the little extra boost that keeps you alert as you drive the family to the next Christmas gathering. Amidst all the hoopla, it can be challenging for some of us who have lost someone dear to our hearts. I can only hope that you find a moment of solace, a moment when something sparks a reminder of those earlier happy times and you can smile. Amey and I extend our best wishes to you and your loved ones and pray that the spirit of the season brings joy and happiness to your heart now and throughout the new year. May God bless us all.
12.20.2013	Holiday surprises have sadly become routine for the self-proclaimed “most transparent administration in history.” It is not surprising that as we approach the Christmas holiday, the administration is quietly announcing yet another major change to its signature health care law. Reuters reports, “The Obama administration made a major last-minute policy shift on Thursday, saying that the change would help Americans meet a looming deadline to replace insurance plans canceled because of new standards under Obamacare reforms.” The administration knew for years that millions of Americans would lose their health care plans because of this law – already including nearly a quarter of a million people in Michigan – but the President repeated his promise of, “If you like your health care plan, you will be able to keep your health care plan, period. … No matter what.” Now, just days before the already-delayed deadline to enroll in a plan for coverage beginning on January 1, the administration is attempting yet another desperate round of damage control. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, commented, “The health law is like a Jenga game – the administration keeps yanking out pieces, and ultimately nothing can keep it from collapsing. The administration knew for years that it could not keep its promise, but repeated it anyway. Now, just days before Christmas and yet another deadline, the administration is telling the millions of folks who were forced to lose plans the administration deemed ‘substandard’ that they can purchase catastrophic insurance after all. The administration keeps pulling the rug out from under Americans who are worried whether they will have health care come January 1. Sadly, we ask again, what’s next?” These catastrophic plans often provide less coverage than the plans that the administration has forced out of the market, and those purchasing those plans are not eligible for a subsidy. Many will still be left with more expensive bills and less coverage. This latest delay and exemption does nothing to provide relief or peace of mind to the millions of American families hurt by the President’s broken promise. Upton’s Keep Your Health Plan Act (H.R. 3350) would allow plans being sold on the individual market this year to be sold next year. This bill garnered broad bipartisan support, passing the House by a vote of 261 to 157, but received a veto threat from the administration. Holiday and Friday afternoon announcements have become the norm for this White House trying to bury its failures and attempted fixes. Writing in The Washington Post, Ezra Klein adds, “This puts the first crack in the individual mandate.” With Christmas and New Year’s fast approaching, #WhatsNext?
12.12.2013	Click here to watch Upton’s Floor statement on temporary SGR fix The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a bipartisan two-year budget agreement that will prevent a government shutdown in January and return the congressional budget process to regular order. Building on the earlier efforts of House Republicans, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (H.J.Res. 59) replaces the across-the-board sequester cuts to defense and non-defense programs, while still reducing the deficit by more than $20 billion and putting the nation on the path to a balanced budget. The agreement includes new deficit-reduction provisions and shields Michigan families and businesses from higher taxes. Michigan Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, praised the agreement for breaking through the partisan gridlock and allowing the Congress to focus on long-term fiscal solutions, including comprehensive tax reform. H.J.Res. 59 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 332 to 94 and is expected to be considered by the U.S. Senate next week. “Not much is ever perfect, but this bipartisan budget agreement is a welcome step to begin the herculean task of tackling our nation’s debt in a bipartisan way,” said Upton. “The sequester was put into place to force the House and Senate to reach an agreement after years of not considering a budget. This agreement keeps feet to the fire for spending caps and allows the appropriators to do their work without a meat-axe approach.” The agreement sets overall discretionary spending for the current fiscal year at $1.012 trillion and FY 2015 at $1.014, for a total of $63 billion in sequester relief. The sequester relief is fully offset by savings elsewhere in the budget. Upton spoke on the House Floor this afternoon in support of a bipartisan provision to the budget bill, which seeks to address the expiration of the current reimbursement rate for physicians treating Medicare patients. Without action, doctors would face a 20.1 percent cut in reimbursements come January 1, 2014. “It’s important that seniors do not find a lump of coal in their stockings for Christmas. This fully offset package represents access to healthcare for 40 million seniors. It would give seniors the peace of mind of knowing that their trusted physician will be there when they need them most by securing stable payments for doctors.” For nearly three years as Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman, Upton has helped lead the bipartisan effort in Congress to permanently repeal Medicare’s fundamentally flawed payment model that is used to reimburse our nation’s doctors. Since its enactment as part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, the current payment system – known as the Sustainable Growth Rate or simply the SGR – has been a source of continued concern for physicians who serve Medicare beneficiaries and for the beneficiaries themselves. Earlier this year, Upton’s Energy and Commerce Committee voted 51 to 0 on H.R. 2810, which would repeal the SGR and replace it with a system that promotes the highest quality of care. Today’s provision provides a three-month window as Congress continues its work on a more complete, permanent solution.
12.11.2013	Click to watch Upton’s Floor remarks House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today kicked off debate on H.R. 2019, the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act. This bill would redirect wasteful spending on political conventions to important, scientific, pediatric research. H.R. 2019 was introduced by committee member Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS) in April. Remarks as prepared: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act of 2013. H.R. 2019, authored by my colleague Gregg Harper, is a bill that will help countless kids and families across the country. The Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act would prioritize funding for the research of pediatric diseases and disorders such as cancer, autism, and Fragile X. It would eliminate taxpayer financing of party conventions and use these funds to expand pediatric research at the National Institutes of Health through the NIH Common Fund. This bill truly puts kids first. Gabriella Miller was a little warrior in the battle against childhood cancer. At just 10 years of age, she had courage miles beyond her years. A frying pan and walnut is all you need to understand her brave outlook on life. When she was diagnosed with brain cancer, she was told the tumor was the size of a walnut. From then on, Gabriella always travelled with her trusty frying pan, squashing countless walnuts along the way. That is the kind of courage and outlook on life that Gabriella had. Advancing health research for millions of young patients who suffer from rare and genetic disorders must be a priority. While we have made great strides in the country in finding cures and treatments, we still have a great amount of work to do. Included in this work is pushing research that will help uncover cures for pediatric diseases. In order for clinical trials and other advancements to meet their full potential, adequate resources must be directed to pediatric research. The legislation is an example of how much can be accomplished by ending wasteful spending and redirecting those funds toward national priorities like pediatric research. This effort will also help families like the Kennedys in Mattawan, Michigan. Eric and Sarah Kennedy have two delightful young daughters, Brooke and Brielle, who have the rare disease Spinal Muscular Atrophy. These two angels, who are fighting SMA with the same vigor and sunny outlook exhibited by Gabriella, are decorated little generals in the effort to boost research for rare diseases and serve as an inspiration for all. The sad reality is it is often difficult to conduct research into rare diseases due to the small number of individuals with the disease. But, we are working to change that, and provide families with greater hope for a cure or advances in treatment. H.R. 2019 has over 150 co-sponsors and is supported by a long list of patient advocacy groups including Autism Speaks, the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, and FightSMA. I wholeheartedly agree with the bill’s Democrat Sponsor, Mr. Welch who recently asked, “Can we just put the battle axes down for a while and take a step forward?” He thinks we can. And I do too. To the Millers who are with us today, thank you for sharing your daughter. Although we wish Gabriella was here with us today, her message to this body rings true, “Stop talking and start doing.” Gabriella, we heard you loud and clear. And today, we will put kids first.
12.05.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement on the passing of anti-apartheid leader and former South African President Nelson Mandela. “Nelson Mandela’s courageous leadership in the face of hatred and social injustice brought new life and new government to the oppressed people of South Africa. His words and actions will continue to inspire, strengthen, and bring hope to future generations,” said Upton, who had the honor of personally meeting Mr. Mandela during the South African leader’s address before a joint session of the United States Congress. “He was a transformational figure on the world stage, but also a public servant of great humility. We would be well-served by having more leaders follow his example.” “Nelson Mandela’s powerful message of freedom, peace, and tolerance could not be confined by prison walls. His spirit and legacy live on, bringing moral courage to those who face adversity and love to a world longing to heal.” “Our prayers are with his family and the people of South Africa.” Upton cosponsored legislation awarding Mr. Mandela the Congressional Gold Medal in 1998, the highest civilian honor bestowed by the Congress.
12.04.2013	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, took part in today’s Health Subcommittee hearing that examined how the President’s health care law will impact the Medicare Advantage program and what its 14 million beneficiaries should expect in the coming year. The health care law made over $700 billion in reductions to the Medicare program – including over $300 billion in direct and indirect reductions to the Medicare Advantage program alone – in order to fund the new entitlement. These cuts will begin to be fully realized in the next year, and seniors and disabled Americans who rely on Medicare Advantage will soon suffer the consequences. In 2012, more than 436,000 people from Michigan were enrolled in Medicare Advantage. “Every day we hear from people in Michigan and across the country who are losing their current coverage and facing increased costs because of the health care law,” said Upton. “Today we turned our focus to the nation’s seniors and disabled who could be affected by the changes in the law. The empty promises have real consequences for countless Americans who like their existing coverage and expect Washington to do no harm.” Today’s hearing underscored recent revelations that the President’s promises that you could keep your doctor and you could keep your health care plan will not hold true. According to a report by the Kaiser Family Foundation, more than half a million beneficiaries may lose their existing Medicare Advantage plan next year, which would force these seniors and disabled Americans to switch their current plan or return to a traditional fee-for-service plan. More than 105,000 beneficiaries enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan in 2013 will not be able to enroll in a Medicare Advantage plan at all in 2014. “There has been much speculation about the impact of the ACA cuts to MA plans,” stated former Congressional Budget Office (CBO) Director Douglas Holtz-Eakin in his prepared testimony for today’s hearing. “The common threads running through analyses of the MA landscape in 2014 are (1) fewer plan choices, (2) higher costs to beneficiaries, (3) foregone benefits, and (4) tighter provider networks.” There are several types of MA plans, including Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs), Preferred Provider Organizations (PPOs), Private Fee-For-Services (FFS) Plans, and Special Needs Plans (SNPs) MA plan coverage includes traditional FFS Medicare services (Part A and B benefits), and, for most plans, prescription drug coverage (Part D benefit) is included as well.
12.03.2013	A longtime advocate for Lake Michigan harbors, Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, has joined a bipartisan coalition of 34 Great Lakes Representatives in sending a letter to the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) Conference Committee. In the letter led by West Michigan Rep. Bill Huizenga, R-Zeeland, and Rep. Louise Slaughter, D-NY, the coalition thanked House and Senate conferees for their work to advance legislation to improve the nation’s navigation infrastructure and called on the conference committee leaders to make the Great Lakes a national priority. “Our Great Lakes harbors and waterways play a vital role in supporting job creation, economic growth and competitiveness here in Southwest Michigan and in communities across the nation,” said Upton. “Keeping our Great Lakes system open and operational must remain a national priority and I strongly encourage House and Senate negotiators build upon the progress made here in the House to support it.” On October 23, 2013, Upton joined an overwhelming majority of his House colleagues in passing the House version of WRRDA (H.R. 3080), which authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to carry out its mission to develop, maintain, and support our nation’s ports and waterways infrastructure needs as well as support effective environmental restoration and flood protection. The bipartisan House WRRDA bill notably includes an important provision from legislation cosponsored by Upton – the Great Lakes System Sustainability Act (H.R. 2273) – which designates the entire Great Lakes Navigation System (GLNS) as a single, unified system for budgetary purposes. Rather than forcing Great Lakes harbors to compete for funding like coastal ports, this important provision recognizes the economic benefits of their interdependence and will help ensure future funding. Click HERE to view the coalition’s full letter to the WRRDA Conference Committee. The text of the letter follows below. November 25, 2013 Dear Chairmen Shuster and Boxer and Ranking Members Rahall and Vitter: Thank you for your efforts on the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA), and in particular for advancing provisions that will improve our nation’s navigation infrastructure. Both the Senate and House versions of the water resources legislation make important advances to better fund harbor maintenance throughout our nation. We urge you to retain language that would direct harbor maintenance funding to be more in line with the revenues collected for this purpose in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF). Only about half of the collections for harbor maintenance are currently expended for that purpose, and we urge you to retain and strengthen language in the final conference report so that funds collected to improve our navigation infrastructure are fully used for that purpose. Many of us cosponsored the RAMP Act (H.R.335) as a way to achieve this goal and we thank you for advancing the objectives of that legislation. We ask that the final conference report include a funding target of 100% of HMTF revenues that is not tied to other civil works funding levels. As Great Lakes Representatives, we write to call particular attention to the Great Lakes Navigation System, which is the backbone of our nation’s manufacturing, industrial, building, and agricultural economies. Each year, about 145 million tons of commodities are carried through the Great Lakes Navigation System. The materials transported include fuel that powers homes and businesses, limestone and cement to construct roads and bridges, iron ore to produce steel, chemicals and other raw materials for manufacturers, and agricultural products to feed our nation and the world. This mode of transport has both economic and environmental advantages compared to alternative transportation options, and supports about 130,000 jobs in the U.S. and generates over $18 billion in revenues. Despite the benefits the Great Lakes Navigation System provides, inadequate funding and maintenance has resulted in a tremendous backlog of dredging projects that have forced vessels to light load, grounded vessels, impeded safe navigation, and closed harbors and threatened other harbors with closure. To further exacerbate the problem, the water levels of a number of the Great Lakes have reached record lows in the last few years. The impacts of the lack of dredging and other required maintenance, including lock improvements, breakwater repairs, and construction of dredged material disposal facilities, have economic consequences that hinder economic growth. In order to restore the functionality of the Great Lakes Navigation System, we urge conferees to include our priorities listed below in the final conference report. We list our requests in order of importance. 1. Dedicated harbor maintenance funding for the Great Lakes Navigation System (GLNS): The Senate bill prioritizes 20 percent of harbor maintenance funding in excess of FY2012 levels for the GLNS. However, the House bill sets funding aside for certain purposes using total harbor maintenance funding, and not spending above a threshold figure. Because it is not yet clear how these different approaches will be resolved, we request the conference agreement include bill language requiring that at least 15 percent of all annual HMTF appropriations be provided for GLNS operations and maintenance to address the numerous needs we outlined above. 2. Authorization of the GLNS: Both the Senate and House bills recognize the Great Lakes harbors, ports and other navigation features as being part of a single navigation system. In the House bill, Section 202(b) explicitly authorizes the GLNS as a single system, and we ask that this language be retained in the conference report. 3. Expanded Uses of HMTF: Both the Senate and House bills expand the use of HMTF for a variety of uses, including dredging berths, disposal of contaminated sediments, and rebates for certain types of ports. As you work towards a conference agreement, it is important that other already-authorized components of our waterway system are not unintentionally neglected, including the Great Lakes. The GLNS has a backlog of $200 million in dredging projects, seriously aging breakwaters and locks in need of repair, and a lack of dredged material disposal facilities. In prioritizing uses of the HMTF, it is critical that funding first be provided for currently authorized uses, such as maintaining navigation projects at their constructed depths and widths, especially in the Great Lakes. Thank you for your consideration of these requests. We look forward to working with you to advance a final water resources conference report that improves the nation’s water resources, including the Great Lakes. Sincerely, cc: Members of the WRRDA Conference Committee
11.27.2013	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, applauded the President today for signing two important public health bills that had been previously advanced by Upton’s committee with strong bipartisan support. “This Thanksgiving, we offer families in Michigan and across the country a little more hope with these critical public health bills now law,” said Upton. With an average of one in eight children born prematurely, the PREEMIE Reauthorization Act (S.252) seeks to strengthen the ongoing effort to track, prevent, and treat prematurity to ensure children have a healthy start and a productive future. Upton sponsored the original PREEMIE Act that was signed into law in December 2006. The bipartisan legislation also provides for the creation of the National Pediatric Research Network to facilitate research to help children with rare and genetic diseases. The House passed similar stand-alone legislation, H.R. 225, to create the network in February. “Although our bipartisan effort to boost pediatric care began several years ago, the delays never deterred our commitment to getting it done. Seeing the PREEMIE Act package of reforms across the finish line and now law is something we can all be thankful for this year. This law will especially have a direct and profound impact on the lives of families like the Kennedys in Mattawan, whose daughters Brooke and Brielle are battling the rare disease Spinal Muscular Atrophy. It is often difficult to conduct research into rare diseases due to the small number of people affected. But today, with great thanks to Brooke and Brielle for serving as an inspiration, we create a new research network to provide families like the Kennedys with greater hope for a cure and advances in treatment.” The President also signed Upton’s Drug Quality and Security Act (H.R. 3024), a breakthrough agreement to improve drug safety in the wake of the deadly 2012 meningitis outbreak. By all accounts, Michigan has been hardest hit by the outbreak with 264 cases and 19 fatalities, including 3 deaths from Upton’s own district. Upton’s committee has led a thorough investigation into the recent outbreak to ensure such a public health catastrophe never happens again. “With the President’s signature today, this bipartisan law will help prevent future crises like last year’s deadly fungal meningitis outbreak while also establishing a unified framework for maintaining safety throughout the drug supply chain. Across the nation, Americans going to their doctor’s office or pharmacy will now have the confidence that their drugs are safe. From bipartisan oversight to drafting and approving legislation, we were able to reach a compromise to protect the drug supply and also remove regulatory roadblocks, creating an environment conducive to job creation. I am thankful for the cooperation of my colleagues in both the House and the Senate, on both sides of the aisle, for their efforts in this achievement.” H.R. 3024 also strengthens the prescription drug supply chain in order to protect American families against counterfeit drugs as well as eliminates needless government red tape that harms Michigan employers like Perrigo and Pfizer.
11.25.2013	In honor of his work on behalf of people around the United States who have cancer and whose treatments are covered under Medicare Part B, U.S. Rep. Fred Upton on Monday was awarded the 2013 Medicare Access Champion Award for his outstanding leadership on behalf of cancer patients and seniors. The award was presented by the American Life Sciences Innovation Council. Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Energy Committee, said he was pleased to be recognized for his actions on behalf of an important group of cancer patients. “If it wasn’t for these community based physicians who keep their doors open for Southwest Michigan cancer patients, it’d be a sorry situation,” Upton said. “The continuation of Part B means patients can have access to the most affordable and accessible treatment close to home.” The award was presented by a group of representatives from health-related firms: Vickie Martin of Senior Services of Southwest Michigan, Dr. Lynn Gray of the Michigan Academy of Family Physicians, and Jean Maile of Southwest Michigan Hospice.
11.22.2013	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, praised today’s action by the State of Michigan to help provide relief for the approximately 225,000 Michiganders who have been notified that they will lose their current health plan because of the Affordable Care Act. As of November 2, only 27,000 people nationwide have signed up for a new health insurance plan using HealthCare.gov – 1,329 of those people are from Michigan. The state’s decision will allow health insurers to reinstate the canceled policies. “Over the past several weeks, we have heard from hundreds of folks in Southwest Michigan who took the President at his word, but are now losing their current policies and are facing higher premiums and deductibles,” said Upton. “Last week, the House passed my bipartisan Keep Your Health Plan Act to help provide relief for folks here in Michigan and millions like them across the country. I applaud Gov. Snyder for his leadership and work to allow the same freedom and flexibility here in Michigan.” On Nov. 15, 2013, the House of Representatives passed Upton’s bipartisan Keep Your Health Plan Act (H.R. 3350) by a vote of 261 to 157. Upton’s bill would allow health care plans currently available on the individual market to continue to be offered next year – expanding choices and beginning to provide peace of mind to the millions of Americans who were promised by the President that if they liked their health plan, they could keep it.
11.21.2013	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, as the Speaker signed S. 252, the PREEMIE Reauthorization Act, bringing the important bill one step closer to enactment. The bipartisan legislation also provides for the creation of the National Pediatric Research Network to facilitate research to help children with rare and genetic diseases. The House passed similar stand-alone legislation, H.R. 225, to create the network in February. Speaker Boehner also signed H.R. 3024, the Drug Quality and Security Act, a breakthrough bipartisan, bicameral agreement introduced by Upton to improve drug safety in the wake of the deadly 2012 meningitis outbreak. By all accounts, Michigan has been hardest hit by the outbreak with 264 cases and 19 fatalities, including 3 deaths from Upton’s own district. Upton’s committee has led a thorough investigation into the recent outbreak to ensure such a public health catastrophe never happens again. The bill also strengthens the prescription drug supply chain in order to protect American families against counterfeit drugs as well as eliminates needless government red tape that harms Michigan employers like Perrigo and Pfizer. Both bills will soon head to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Upton commented, “At long last we are nearing the finish line, and we will soon have a network in place to help families like the Kennedys in Mattawan, Michigan, and their two young daughters who have the rare disease Spinal Muscular Atrophy. These two little angels, Brooke and Brielle, are little warriors in the effort to boost research for rare diseases and serve as an inspiration for all.” ​​​IN CASE YOU MISSED IT ...​ November 14, 2013 Mattawan's Kennedy sisters help inspire House bill funding research into rare genetic diseases MATTAWAN, MI – The medical struggles of two sisters from Mattawan helped inspire a bill funding research for rare diseases that passed the House by unanimous consent this week. Brooke and Brielle Kennedy were born with type II spinal muscular atrophy. Their battle was chronicled in a 2012 Kalamazoo Gazette story. The six-year-old and four-year-old have exceeded doctors' prognoses, but SMA is a terminal, degenerative disease. "SMA is the leading genetic killer of infants and young children. It is a terminal, degenerative progressive disease that results in the loss of nerves in the spinal cord and the weakness of the muscles connected with those nerves," according to brookeandbrielle.com, a website set up by Sarah Kennedy, the girls' mother. "SMA impacts the ability to walk, stand, sit, eat, breathe and even swallow." U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, introduced the National Pediatric Research Network Act of 2013, which passed Tuesday as part of the Prematurity Research Expansion and Education for Mothers who Deliver Infants Early (PREEMIE) Reauthorization Act. Upton sponsored the original PREEMIE act, which became law in 2006. The act supports research into rare and genetic diseases afflicting children, including SMA, by allowing the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to fund pediatric research consortium. Earlier this year, the measure passed the House as a stand-alone bill. "This legislation will have a dramatic and life-changing effect on so many families who have suffered for so many years," said Sarah Kennedy in a statement. Upton said he met the Kennedys a few years ago, when they brought to his attention to a similar bill written to help fund rare diseases affecting children. Upton said he was charmed by the girls and keeps a picture of them in his Kalamazoo office. "These girls are incredible. The first time I met Brielle and Brooke, they told me their names were Cinderella and Sleeping Beauty. They're not letting their disabilities define them. But because spinal muscular atrophy is relatively rare, there hasn't been a lot of funding for it," said Upton in an email. The bill will now move to the Senate as part of a package of health-related bills, S. 252. A previous version passed twice during the 112th Congress, once as a stand-alone bill and once as part of a larger piece of legislation. Neither version passed the Senate. "The sad reality is it is often difficult to conduct research into rare diseases due to the small number of individuals with the disease," he said. "We are working to change that and provide families with greater hope for a cure or advances in treatment." Read the entire story online here. Watch Upton’s November 12, 2013, floor statement that highlights the Kennedy family here.
11.21.2013	Click HERE to watch the video chat House Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, this afternoon hosted a video conference call via Google Hangout with individuals from Southwest Michigan who will lose their current health plan because of the Affordable Care Act. Upton was joined by U.S. Rep. John Shimkus, R-Illinois, who is a member of Upton’s committee. Upton has heard from countless people from across Southwest Michigan who like their current health plan, but are now losing it because of the health care law. Today’s Google Hangout provided an innovative platform for some of those folks to publicly share their stories. “The stories shared by Mary and Tim echo those I have heard again and again from families throughout Southwest Michigan. It is important that their voices are heard,” said Upton. “These folks are among the nearly quarter of a million people in Michigan who took the President at his word, but are now finding the dreaded cancellation notices in their mailboxes. “Health care should be about providing relief and certainty at a time when people need it most. The President’s health care law has done anything but that.” One of the participants was Mary Swanson, a realtor from Kalamazoo. She and her husband are both self-employed and purchase their own health insurance. “We received our cancellation notice the first week of October, much to our shock after having heard that we were going to be able to keep our plans that we were very happy with,” said Swanson. Their current plan costs $920 per month and has a maximum combined deductible of $4,000. Swanson says that because of the Affordable Care Act, their monthly premium will jump to $1,300 to $1,500, and their deductible will increase to $6,000 a piece. Now they have to figure out how they will pay for the thousands of dollars of additional health costs each year. Another participant was Tim Brown, a small business owner from Portage. Like Swanson, Brown and his spouse have recently received notice that their current plan is being cancelled, despite the President’s repeated promises to the contrary. Also like Swanson, the alternative plans they are now considering also have significantly higher costs and cover services he does not want. “So now the government is saying that you have to buy a product, and you have to buy a product that you otherwise would not have purchased,” said Brown. “Now you want to know why there’s a little bit of outrage?” Brown also expressed his frustration with the further confusion that has been caused by the President’s announcement of another administrative “fix” to the law a week ago. “Here I have a deadline of December 31st and Blue Cross has just said ‘we cannot comment on any impact the President’s comments may have made.’ Are we going in limbo now?” During the call, Upton highlighted his Keep Your Health Plan Act (H.R. 3350), which passed the House with bipartisan support last Friday. Upton’s bill would allow health care plans currently available on the individual market to continue to be offered next year – expanding choices and beginning to provide peace of mind to the millions of Americans who were promised by the President that if they liked their health plan, they could keep it. Folks from Southwest Michigan can become a “Citizen Cosponsor” of Upton’s Keep Your Health Plan Act by visiting: https://www.cosponsor.gov/#details/hr3350-113
11.18.2013	The U.S. Senate today approved bipartisan legislation introduced by Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, to improve drug safety and help prevent a future public health crisis like the 2012 deadly fungal meningitis outbreak tied to the New England Compounding Center (NECC). H.R. 3204, the Drug Quality and Security Act, is the result of a thorough investigation led by Upton’s Committee into the cause of the recent public health catastrophe, which has infected 751 individuals and left 64 dead nationwide. By all accounts, Michigan families have been hardest hit by the contamination, totaling 264 cases and 19 deaths, including 3 fatalities from Upton’s own district. The House passed Upton’s bill by voice vote on September 28, 2013. H.R. 3204 is expected to be signed into law by President Obama in the near future. “To the dozens of families who have lost loved ones and to the hundreds who are still suffering today, with this bill we say ‘never again.’ I applaud the Senate’s passage of this breakthrough bipartisan legislation and am pleased we are now just one step away from this bill being signed into law to prevent a future public health crisis like last year’s deadly fungal meningitis outbreak,” said Upton. “Americans receiving medical treatments must have the peace of mind that their drugs are safe. With this bill we are fortifying the drug supply chain while also cutting needless regulatory red tape that is harming Michigan businesses like Perrigo and Pfizer, creating an environment conducive to growth and job creation.” The first title of H.R. 3204 will protect traditional pharmacies and clarify laws related to human drug compounding in response to the nationwide meningitis outbreak. The bill will clarify the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) authority over the compounding of human drugs while requiring the agency to engage and coordinate with states to ensure the safety of compounded drugs. The second portion of H.R. 3204 will strengthen the prescription drug supply chain in order to protect American families against counterfeit drugs while eliminating needless government red tape that harms U.S. jobs. The bill will help prevent increases in drug prices, avoid additional drug shortages, and eliminate hundreds of millions of dollars worth of duplicative government regulations that impact Michigan employers like Perrigo and Pfizer. The complete text of the bill is online here. A fact sheet of the bill is online here. Letters of support can be found online here.
11.15.2013	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, applauded today’s House passage of his bipartisan Keep Your Health Plan Act (H.R. 3350). The House of Representatives approved the Keep Your Heath Plan Act by a vote of 261 to 157. This bipartisan legislation would allow health care plans currently available on the individual market to continue to be offered next year, expanding choices and beginning to provide peace of mind to the millions of Americans who have been left to worry in the wake of the President’s broken promise. Under the Keep Your Health Plan Act all Americans would have added flexibility around their health coverage enrollment options without facing a penalty under the health care law. The White House has threatened to veto this bill, saying, “Congress should work with the administration to improve the law and move forward,” just hours after working “around” Congress and announcing another administrative “fix.” “For the last three years, the President repeated his promise to the American people that if they like their current health care plan, they can keep it – period. Millions of Americans, including nearly a quarter of a million folks in Michigan, took the President at his word and are now unexpectedly receiving cancellation notices,” said Upton. “Sadly for many Americans, it’s cancellations today and sticker shock tomorrow. Today, with bipartisan support, the House stood up and gave a voice to those folks receiving cancellation notices and passed the Keep Your Health Plan Act. It’s a start, and much more work remains. Let’s keep the promise.” Upton has heard from countless people from across Southwest Michigan who are losing their plans because of the Affordable Care Act. Speaking from the House floor before today’s vote, Upton highlighted the plight of one family from Bangor, Michigan, who will lose their current plan because of the health care law. “This bill is to help provide peace of mind to folks like the farmer in Bangor, Michigan, who just found out, after purchasing his family’s insurance for the last 30 years, that he will be able to keep their plan no more. And the sticker shock will be unbearable as their premiums double and their deductible jumps nearly three thousand bucks.” Watch Upton’s remarks from the House floor here. More background on the Keep Your Health Plan Act is online here.
11.14.2013	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, released the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement today of another administrative “fix” to his health care law: “For the last six weeks, the White House stood idly by as cancellation notices flooded the mailboxes of millions of Americans – including 225,000 Michiganders – who took the president at his word that they could keep their health plans. Now, one day after getting an earful from panicked House and Senate Democrats, the president is bypassing Congress and taking matters into his own hands. “Our main priority should be helping the American people. Today’s abrupt pivot comes after the White House has spent the last week attacking our thoughtful approach to begin to give peace of mind to those folks worried about losing their affordable health care. “If the president were sincere in his apology and serious about keeping his promise to the American people, he would work with Congress on bipartisan proposals like the Keep Your Health Plan Act. “Implementation of this law has been disastrous, leaving worried Americans without the health care plans they had, with skyrocketing premiums, and limited access to doctors. Tomorrow, as we vote on the Keep Your Health Plan Act, we call on the president to work with Congress, not around us.” The House of Representatives will vote on H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act, on Friday. This bill would allow insurance companies to offer health care plans currently available on the individual market today going into next year. Americans would have the choice to enroll in those plans without facing a penalty under the health care law. More information about the one-page bill is online here.
11.14.2013	Click here to watch Fred’s floor remarks Today, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, urged members of the House of Representatives to pass H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act. The bipartisan legislation would allow plans currently available on the individual market to be offered next year. This would provide Americans the opportunity to enroll in these policies in 2014 without penalty. In his remarks, Upton highlighted a family of three from Bangor, Michigan, who have lost their insurance as a result of the Affordable Care Act and now face an increased premium and deductible. The text of Upton’s remarks follow: For the last three years the President personally promised that if they like their current health plan, that they could keep it “no matter what.” Period. But cancellation notices are now arriving in millions of mailboxes across the country. And in the great state of Michigan, some 225,000 folks will see their plans terminated because of this law. That’s twice the total number of people who have even selected a plan nationwide. Now I’ve heard from countless families back home who took the president at his word. They’re upset – yes they are – and worried how they’re going to make ends meet. A self-employed family of three in Bangor, Michigan, has purchased their own insurance for more than 30 years. Their Blue Cross Blue Shield plan was working well, had no deductible, and a $750 monthly premium. To replace it, their premium is going to nearly double to $1,393 and their deductible will jump to $2,800. In their own words, they told us, they have been ‘thrown under the bus.’ Sadly, they are not alone. Tomorrow we will vote on the “Keep Your Health Plan Act,” a straightforward, one-page bill that says if you like your current coverage, you ought to be able to keep it. Let’s keep that promise.
11.13.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, was part of a bipartisan group of congressional leaders present at the White House today for the signing of H.R. 2094, the School Access to Emergency Epinephrine Act, into law. As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Upton has been a leading advocate of this legislation, which supports our nation’s schools as they work to ensure they have the capability to treat severe allergic reactions. “When a student has an emergency reaction, every second counts as a life hangs in the balance,” said Upton. “This legislation is about saving lives and giving parents and teachers alike the peace of mind in knowing that if something does happen that there will be someone onsite and ready to act.” Acting last week by appointment as House Speaker pro tempore, Upton signed H.R. 2094, certifying the House’s approval of the bill and thereby allowing it to advance to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The bill passed the House of Representatives on July 30 after being unanimously approved by Upton’s Energy and Commerce Committee. The legislation has been widely praised by advocates of children with severe allergic reactions, including Food Allergic Families & Friends (FAFF) of Southwest Michigan, which has more than 50 member-families in the region. “We are thrilled with this lifesaving legislation, which helps schools access emergency medicine for severe allergic reactions, when every second counts,” said Sarah Swallow Beuker of Portage, Michigan, founder and moderator of FAFF. “We hope Michigan will adopt a law as urged by this Act, helping the many children who will experience their first severe allergic reaction at school and helping prevent the allergy-related deaths that occur each year in schools.” Coauthored by Congressman Phil Roe (R-TN) and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), H.R. 2094 will provide an incentive for states to allow schools to maintain an emergency supply of epinephrine auto-injectors and permit trained school personnel to administer a non-student specific epinephrine shot in case of an emergency. The legislation also requires states to review their own civil liability protection laws to ensure there is adequate protection for school personnel authorized to aid students.
11.12.2013	House Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this evening in strong support of bipartisan legislation to strengthen health care for the nation’s children and families. The Prematurity Research Expansion and Education for Mothers who Deliver Infants Early (PREEMIE) Reauthorization Act, S.252, continues and strengthens federal research and programs related to preterm birth. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), an estimated half million babies are born premature each year in the United States. Upton sponsored the original PREEMIE Act, which was signed into law in December 2006. As amended by the House, today’s legislation includes the National Pediatric Research Network Act of 2013, H.R. 225, which allows the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to fund pediatric research consortium that are formed from cooperating institutions to promote greater research efficiency and collaboration. Upton has met on numerous occasions with Southwest Michigan families concerning this important legislation to support children with rare and genetic diseases. H.R. 225 was approved by Upton’s Committee with unanimous consent and passed the House on February 4, 2013, as a stand-alone bill. “This legislation seeks to help Michigan children and their families with unmet health needs, including those battling rare and genetic diseases,” said Upton. “This effort will help families like the Kennedys in Mattawan. Eric and Sarah Kennedy have two delightful young daughters, Brooke and Brielle, who have the rare disease Spinal Muscular Atrophy. These two little angels, who are also affectionately known as Sleeping Beauty and Cinderella, are two little warriors in the effort to boost research for rare diseases and serve as an inspiration for all.” “The sad reality is it is often difficult to conduct research into rare diseases due to the small number of individuals with the disease. But today, we are working to change that, and provide families with greater hope for a cure or advances in treatment.” The House passed S. 252 as amended this evening by unanimous consent. Upton is hopeful that the Senate will quickly act to pass this vital legislation to ensure it reaches the President’s desk. “On behalf of my family and our daughters, Brielle and Brooke, and on behalf of FightSMA – an organization that has labored hard to advocate for spinal muscular atrophy research – and on behalf of the thousands of children fighting this crippling and terrifying disease, I want to thank Congressman Fred Upton for his hard work in advancing the National Pediatric Research Network Act,” said Sarah Kennedy in response to this evening’s House action. “This legislation will have a dramatic and life-changing effect on so many families who have suffered for so many years. Congressman Upton's advocacy breathes hope into the lives of every child fighting a rare disease.” This evening, the House also approved S. 330, the HIV Organ Policy Equity (HOPE) Act, which allows research to fully evaluate the safety and efficacy of organ transplantation between individuals with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). In 1988, Congress banned the transplantation of HIV-infected organs. Today, HIV treatments have extended and improved the lives of individuals with HIV, increasing the need for organ donations. Upton’s Committee passed the House companion bill to this legislation, H.R. 698, on July 16, 2013, by unanimous consent.
11.11.2013	This Veterans Day, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, is encouraging folks in Southwest Michigan to share some holiday cheer with service members, veterans, and their families by participating in Holiday Mail for Heroes. "It’s such a simple thing to sign a card to let our brave men and women in the service – and their families – know we appreciate their work. And yet it means so much,” said Upton. “I hope everyone will take a moment to participate in this program.” The American Red Cross is in its seventh year of making sure personalized holiday cards of appreciation are sent to service members and their families. Upton is again facilitating the operation by accepting cards meant for the troops and their families at his constituent service offices in Kalamazoo and St. Joseph. Cards dropped off at the offices by December 4 will be forwarded to the Holiday Mail for Heroes program. Cards can be mailed to the offices or dropped off. “Let our troops know how much their dedication is valued by the American people,” Upton urged. “The holiday season is one of the best times to acknowledge their work.” The Holiday Mail for Heroes program is an extension of the Red Cross’ work with more than 2 million services members and 24 million veterans each year. It provides a "touch of home" for veterans, military families and active duty service members in hospitals, military installations and other locations around the world. The American Red Cross has asked card senders keep in mind a few guidelines: Do: * Include a heartfelt message and signature. * Use generic salutations such as “Dear Service Member.” * Bundle large quantities of cards in large mailing envelopes or flat rate postal shipping boxes. Envelopes are not necessary for the cards. Don't: * Send letters, packages or monetary gifts – only cards are accepted. * Include personal information such as home or email addresses on the cards. * Include inserts of any kind; these items will be removed during the reviewing process. * Use cards with glitter or use loose glitter -- it can aggravate health issues of ill and injured service members. Holiday cards sent directly must arrive by December 6 to: Holiday Mail for Heroes P.O. Box 5456 Capitol Heights, MD 20791-5456 Upton is collecting cards at his district offices located at: Kalamazoo District Office 157 South Kalamazoo Mall Suite 180 Kalamazoo, MI 49007 269-385-0039 St. Joseph / Benton Harbor District Office 800 Centre 800 Ship Street St. Joseph, MI 49085 269-982-1986 For additional information and card requirements, please visit: http://www.redcross.org/news/article/Red-Cross-Kicks-Off-Holiday-Mail-for-Heroes-Campaign Or http://www.redcross.org/support/get-involved/holiday-mail-for-heroes
11.08.2013	One of the key promises of Obamacare was that if you liked your health insurance plan, you could keep it. “No matter what.” But as NBC News now reports, “millions of Americans are getting…cancellation letters for their health insurance under Obamacare.” While the administration sticks to its broken promises, Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, has introduced the Keep Your Health Plan Act to provide peace of mind to Americans across the country who are currently receiving insurance termination notices. The House of Representatives will vote on Upton’s bill next week. Upton is encouraging folks in Southwest Michigan to make their voices heard by becoming a Citizen Cosponsor of H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act. Cosponsor.gov is an innovative platform that brings the American people into the legislative process. Users log in via Facebook and can show their support for issues they care about by becoming a “Citizen Cosponsor” of that bill. Citizen Cosponsors are then updated on the status of their bills as they move through the various stages of the legislative process. The Keep Your Health Plan Act, would allow health insurance plans currently available on the individual market to be offered next year. Additionally, the bill would allow Americans the choice to continue enrolling in those plans without being penalized under the individual mandate. Become a Citizen Cosponsor of H.R. 3350, Keep Your Health Plan Act here. Facing hardships as a result of the health law? Share your story here. Follow the conversation on Twitter using the hashtags #KeepYourHealthPlan, #KeepThePromise, and #FairnessForAll.
11.07.2013	The House of Representatives will consider H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act, next week. The Keep Your Health Plan Act was introduced by Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, and has been cosponsored by more than 130 members. The bill would allow health plans currently available on the individual market to continue next year, providing Americans the opportunity to continue to enroll in those plans without penalty under the health care law. “Folks in Michigan and across the country have been told that, despite the President’s oft-repeated promise, they are losing their health care plans and access to their doctors because of the health care law,” said Upton. “The anxiety directly caused by the law’s broken promises is flatly wrong, and this bill serves to ease those concerns and provide choices to the American people. Health care should be about providing peace of mind – this bill does just that.” The House is expected to vote on the bill on Friday, November 15.
11.06.2013	Nearly 6 million children in the United States have food allergies – that is roughly two students in every classroom. Anaphylaxis, a serious form of allergic reaction, can be fatal in a matter of minutes. In the event of an allergic reaction, epinephrine can be used to stop deadly swelling of the throat and tongue that occurs in an anaphylactic reaction, but time is of the essence. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, praised the advancement of H.R. 2094, the School Access to Emergency Epinephrine Act, which supports our nation’s schools as they work to ensure they have the capability to treat severe allergic reactions. “When the difference between life and death comes down to a matter of minutes, ensuring our schools have the emergency resources they need on site is crucial,” said Upton. “It is still haunting that long-time family friends tragically lost their son at a school event in Southwest Michigan due to an allergic reaction. There was no EpiPen and despite heroic efforts he died. This incentive for schools will indeed save countless lives.” “A child having a serious allergic reaction in the classroom is a parent and teacher’s worst nightmare, and unfortunately it is a problem that has become all too common. I applaud the Senate for following the House in getting this bill across the finish line and to the President’s desk. This bipartisan bill goes a long way to keep our classrooms safe and saving untold young lives in the process.” H.R. 2094 passed the House of Representatives on July 30 after being unanimously approved by Upton’s Energy and Commerce Committee. The Senate followed the House’s lead by approving the bipartisan legislation last week. Today, by appointment as House Speaker pro tempore, Upton signed H.R. 2094, certifying the House’s approval of the bill and thereby allowing it to advance to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The legislation has been widely praised by advocates of children with severe allergic reactions, including Food Allergic Families & Friends (FAFF) of Southwest Michigan, which has more than 50 member-families in the region. “We are thrilled with this lifesaving legislation, which helps schools access emergency medicine for severe allergic reactions, when every second counts,” said Sarah Swallow Beuker of Portage, Michigan, founder and moderator of FAFF. “We hope Michigan will adopt a law as urged by this Act, helping the many children who will experience their first severe allergic reaction at school and helping prevent the allergy-related deaths that occur each year in schools.” Coauthored by Congressman Phil Roe (R-TN) and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), H.R. 2094 will provide an incentive for states to allow schools to maintain an emergency supply of epinephrine auto-injectors and permit trained school personnel to administer a non-student specific epinephrine shot in case of an emergency. The legislation also requires states to review their own civil liability protection laws to ensure there is adequate protection for school personnel authorized to aid students. The President is expected to sign H.R. 2094 into law as early as next week.
10.30.2013	The House Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today heard from Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius on the health care rollout. The hearing, entitled “PPACA Implementation Failures: Answers from HHS,” focused on the failures and issues surrounding the implementation of the Affordable Care Act’s health insurance exchanges. Last Thursday, Upton’s committee heard from several of the health care law’s top contractors. Click here to watch Upton’s opening statement. Click here for more information on today’s hearing.
10.28.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, is to introduce legislation this evening to protect the many Americans whose health plans are being cancelled because of the health law. President Obama repeatedly promised,“ If you like your health care plan, you’ll be able to keep your health care plan, period. No one will take it away, no matter what.” Unfortunately, many Americans from coast to coast are all too familiar with the consequences of the president’s broken promise, already receiving health plan termination notices in the mail. The Keep Your Health Plan Act will ensure that insurance plans available today in the individual market can continue to exist which would allow Americans who want to keep their current health coverage to do so. “Despite the president’s repeated promise of ‘if you like your plan, you can keep it,’ many Americans are now learning the sad reality that their current plan will no longer exist beginning on January 1. Instead they are forced to purchase health care that they cannot afford through a system that does not even work, and that’s just not fair,” said Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “This legislation is about providing folks the peace of mind that they will be allowed to keep their current coverage if they so choose.” The bill would allow health care plans available today on the individual market to continue to be offered so Americans have the option to keep what they have if they like it. The bill also ensures that Americans maintaining their health care plan would not face a penalty under the Affordable Care Act.| Read the draft bill online here.
10.26.2013	In the Weekly Republican Address, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, highlighted efforts to provide fairness for all Americans under the President’s health care law, and get to the bottom of what went wrong with its rollout. The committee will hear from Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius on Wednesday, October 30 and Upton notes that "the bipartisan chorus has been growing ... to delay the penalty that Americans would face for being unable to purchase insurance through this broken system.” The committee last week heard from four of the health care law's top contractors in an effort to understand what led to the botched rollout of the health law, who is responsible, and when or if the groups involved recognized the challenges that lay ahead. Concluding his address, Upton asks Americans facing hardships from the President’s broken promises to visit gop.gov/YourStory to share their experiences. Chairman Upton’s full remarks below: Hey there. I’m Michigan Representative Fred Upton, Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Our panel has been active in crafting solutions to improve health care for the American people, as well as conducting thoughtful oversight of the president’s health care law. Over the last year, we have become all too familiar with the troubled rollout of the law with its broken promises, missed deadlines, delays, special waivers, and now website crashes. This week, in this committee room, four of the lead contractors responsible for the troubled healthcare.gov website testified about what went wrong. Next week, we will hear directly from Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius. Despite hundreds of millions of taxpayers dollars invested, the website still does not work for most. At a time when we can do everything from ordering a pizza, flowers, or airline tickets, or banking and paying bills, they expect the same reliable service from healthcare.gov – and it’s still not ready for primetime. Over the months leading up to the October 1 launch, top administration officials and lead contractors appeared before this committee, looked us in the eye, and assured us repeatedly that everything was “on track.” Except that it wasn’t, as we now know all too well. The broken healthcare.gov website has captured the nation’s attention, but this is more than a website problem. We are also concerned about what happens next. Will enrollment glitches become provider payment glitches? Will patients show up at their doctor’s office or hospital only to be told they aren’t in the system? And is the personal information Americans provide as part of the enrollment process safe from cyber hackers and identity theft. Oversight is not about blame – it is about accountability… transparency. And it’s about fairness for the American public. In a few short months, families across the country will be subject to penalties under the law’s individual mandate. How can the administration punish innocent Americans by forcing them to buy a product many cannot afford, from a system that does not work? And what about the promises that health care costs would go down, and that Americans could keep their health plans if they liked them, “No matter what?” The reality in communities across America is that premiums are going higher – for some, as much as 400 percent higher. And millions of Americans are receiving unwelcome notices that their plans are being terminated. Believe it or not, more people are receiving cancellation notices in just three states than are applying in all 50 states. This is not what health reform promised. In the past few days, the bipartisan chorus has been growing to delay the individual mandate, to delay the penalty that Americans would face for being unable to purchase insurance through this broken system. This is good news. The business mandate was delayed, and it’s only fair that individuals and families receive the same treatment. Likewise, we should look for bipartisan solutions to allow Americans to keep their current insurance. After all, that was President Obama’s solemn promise during the health care debate. We will continue working toward patient-centered reforms that keep costs down for folks, all the while improving quality of care. This is a matter of fairness for all. If you are facing hardships as a result of the law, we want to hear from you. Please go to http://gop.gov/YourStory to share your experience. Thank you. And God Bless.
10.23.2013	By an overwhelming vote of 417 to 3, the House of Representatives this evening passed comprehensive legislation to modernize the nation’s water transportation infrastructure. A longtime advocate for Lake Michigan harbors, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, supported the legislation – the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2013 (WRRDA), H.R. 3080 – which authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to carry out its mission to develop, maintain, and support our nation’s ports and waterways infrastructure needs as well as support effective environmental restoration and flood protection. “As folks in Michigan know, our harbors not only bring goods and raw materials to our communities, but jobs and economic opportunity,” said Upton. “Whether for commercial shipments or recreational traffic, it is critical that our waterways are well-maintained and operational.” The bipartisan bill also includes an important provision from legislation cosponsored by Upton – the Great Lakes System Sustainability Act (H.R. 2273) – which designates the entire Great Lakes Navigation System (GLNS) as a single, unified system for budgetary purposes. Rather than forcing Great Lakes harbors to compete for funding like coastal ports, this important provision recognizes the economic benefits of their interdependence and will help ensure future funding. The GLNS is a continuous waterway that extends more than 2,400 miles from the far reaches of Lake Superior to the Gulf of St. Lawrence on the Atlantic Ocean. The U.S. portion of the GLNS consists of 140 harbors (60 commercial; 80 recreational), two operational locks, 104 miles of breakwaters and jetties, and more than 600 miles of maintained navigational channels. While praising the overall legislation, Upton also took the opportunity to renew his call for support of the Realize America’s Maritime Promise (RAMP) Act (H.R. 335), which would ensure that all federal revenues collected for harbor maintenance through the Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) are fully used and not left unspent in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF). “Given the funding constraints facing the Corps, it is all the more important for us to ensure that the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund is solely used for its intended purpose: maintaining our nation’s harbors. The continued misallocation of these collected user fees has left our nation’s ports and waterways seriously underfunded.” Revenue in the HMTF has increased over the past decade, generating a substantial surplus. Because the HMTF is not a separate account within the federal budget, many of the HMT revenues paid by users have been left unspent as a budgetary gimmick to offset other federal spending. Congress has historically passed water resources legislation every two years to provide oversight and policy reforms, but has not done so since 2007. The House-passed bill must now be reconciled with its companion in the Senate.
10.16.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement in anticipation of this evening’s vote to reopen the federal government and fund federal agencies through January 15, 2014, as well as prevent a default on the nation’s debt obligations by temporarily extending the debt limit until February 7, 2014. The bipartisan agreement will give both sides time to work out a long-term solution to address the national debt and deficits. Upton said he plans to vote in favor of the agreement, which is expected to be approved this evening by both the House of Representatives and Senate. “Now it is time to put Humpty Dumpty back together again and turn away from the government dysfunction that has crippled our country. I stand committed to working in a bipartisan manner to seek common-sense reforms that can help our still struggling economy. No question that we had to avoid default and pay our bills, but we are long overdue to cut reckless spending and reduce the deficit. There are plenty of issues like the Farm Bill, immigration, energy independence, and the new health care law that need constructive attention rather than inaction.”
10.09.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, will be part of a small group of Republican congressional leaders to meet with President Obama on Thursday at the White House to try to resolve the government shutdown and address our nation’s fiscal crisis. “Right now, folks in Michigan and across the country are tired of government dysfunction. They want their leaders to talk through and tackle the difficult issues. For the past few weeks, my focus has been on how we can bridge this partisan divide and thoughtfully address our long-term fiscal challenges. It is time for all parties to work together to find some real solutions, including long overdue budget and tax reforms that will boost the economy, encourage job growth, and reduce spending. I am hopeful that the President will reason with us and be willing to negotiate tomorrow as we work to meaningfully address our challenges and do what is right for all Americans.” On Monday, Upton authored an op-ed calling on all of our nation’s leaders to find common ground to address the ongoing and future challenges. Read Upton’s full op-ed online HERE.
10.02.2013	Click here to listen to Fred’s Floor remarks WASHINGTON, DC – As the House and Senate continue to work toward an agreement to end the federal government shutdown that resulted from a lapse in federal funding on October 1, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, took to the House Floor today to urge his colleagues to support the immediate continuation of federal funding for lifesaving health research. Upton spoke in favor of the Research for Lifesaving Cures Act, H.J.Res.73, which provides immediate funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) at the same rate and under the same conditions as in effect at the end of the just-completed fiscal year. Under the joint resolution, NIH funds would be available until another appropriations bill – such as a Continuing Resolution – is enacted or December 15, 2013, whichever comes first. Upton has long been a leading champion of national health research, dating back to the 1990s when he helped lead the successful bipartisan effort to double the budget for the NIH. Health research has remained a top priority for Upton as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, where he has worked to advance health research for millions of young patients who suffer from rare and genetic disorders, among many other efforts. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Let’s face it, the failure of not having a CR is that both sides have failed to negotiate an agreement to keep the government open. And let’s hope that the 5:30 meeting this afternoon between Speaker Boehner, Leaders Pelosi, McConnell, and Reid, and the President is not a finger-pointing meeting; it’s not a my-way-or-the-highway meeting, but, in fact, a constructive way to get an agreement that most of us – Republicans and Democrats – can support. But whether that agreement comes tonight or tomorrow, God help us next week or the following week, at some point the sun is going to come up. It’s going to happen. But in the meantime, we shouldn’t harm the folks that are in dire need. I strongly support the NIH and I look at Mr. Waxman, my colleague and Ranking Member on the Energy and Commerce Committee, and the two of us led the effort to double the money for the NIH a number of years ago. We have folks waiting in the queue to participate in life-saving clinical trials. They have every right to be furious with this body, but we can fix that by passing this bill so they don’t have to wait. Come on – let’s put policy over politics and do this. Not for us, but for them. And I yield back the balance of my time.
09.28.2013	Click here to watch Upton’s Floor remarks The House of Representatives today passed bipartisan legislation introduced by Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, to improve drug safety and help prevent a future public health crisis like the 2012 deadly meningitis outbreak tied to the New England Compounding Center (NECC). H.R. 3204, the Drug Quality and Security Act, is the result of a thorough investigation led by Upton’s Committee into the cause of the recent public health catastrophe, which has infected 750 individuals and left 64 dead nationwide. By all accounts, Michigan families have been hardest hit by the contamination, totaling 264 cases and 19 deaths, including 3 fatalities from Upton’s own district. The Senate is expected to consider the legislation hopefully in the next couple of days, after which it will be sent to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “To all the families who have lost loved ones and to those who are still suffering today, with this bill we say ‘never again,’” said Upton. “By all accounts, Michigan has been the hardest hit by the outbreak – with 19 lives needlessly lost including three in my district - and the sad truth is, it could have been prevented. This legislation is an important step in helping prevent any such tragedy from occurring again. “H.R. 3204 also strengthens the prescription drug supply chain in order to protect American families against counterfeit drugs while eliminating hundreds of millions of dollars of duplicative government red tape that is harming Michigan businesses like Perrigo and Pfizer. “I am proud to say that this piece of legislation is a product of true bipartisan and bicameral work. The Senate and the House, Republicans and Democrats came together to produce a bill that will protect American patients by ensuring they receive safe drugs.” H.R. 3204 will protect traditional pharmacies and clarify laws related to human drug compounding in response to the nationwide meningitis outbreak and will strengthen the prescription drug supply chain in order to protect American families against counterfeit drugs. The legislation will also create a uniform national standard for drug supply chain security to protect Americans against counterfeit drugs while eliminating needless government red tape. It will help prevent increases in drug prices, avoid additional drug shortages and eliminate hundreds of millions of dollars worth of duplicative government regulations that impact Michigan employers like Perrigo and Pfizer. H.R. 3204 legislation will also clarify FDA’s authority over the compounding of human drugs while requiring the agency to engage and coordinate with states to ensure the safety of compounded drugs. The complete text of the bill is online here. A fact sheet of the bill is online here. Letters of support can be found online here.
09.27.2013	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today introduced H.R. 3204, the Drug Quality and Security Act, the result of a bipartisan, bicameral effort to improve drug safety and help prevent a future public health crisis like the 2012 deadly meningitis outbreak tied to the New England Compounding Center (NECC). Upton’s Committee led an extensive investigation into the cause of the public health catastrophe, which has infected 750 individuals and left 64 dead nationwide. By all accounts, Michigan families have been hardest hit by the contamination, totaling 264 cases and 19 deaths, including 3 fatalities from Upton’s own district. “Today’s introduction of this important, bipartisan legislation in the House is a critical milestone to protect the health and safety of the American people,” said Upton. “Over the past year, my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on the committee and in the Senate have been relentless in their pursuit of the facts behind last year’s deadly meningitis outbreak and working to prevent any such tragedy from happening again. In strengthening the drug supply chain, we eliminate costly red tape and open up opportunity for growth and job creation. Michigan has been the hardest hit by the meningitis outbreak, and the sad truth is it could have been stopped. To all the families who have lost loved ones and to those patients who continue to suffer, we say ‘never again.’” H.R. 3204 would protect traditional pharmacies and clarify laws related to human drug compounding in response to the nationwide meningitis outbreak and would strengthen the prescription drug supply chain in order to protect American families against counterfeit drugs. This legislation would also create a uniform national standard for drug supply chain security to protect Americans against counterfeit drugs while eliminating needless government red tape. It would help prevent increases in drug prices, avoid additional drug shortages and eliminate hundreds of millions of dollars worth of duplicative government regulations. This legislation would also clarify FDA’s authority over the compounding of human drugs while requiring the agency to engage and coordinate with states to ensure the safety of compounded drugs. The complete text of the bill is online here. Letters of support can be found online here.
09.26.2013	In response to last fall’s deadly fungal meningitis outbreak, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, praised a bipartisan agreement that was reached between the House and Senate on legislation to help ensure the safety of compounded drugs and our nation’s pharmaceutical supply chain. The legislation, the Drug Quality and Security Act, follows an extensive investigation led by Upton’s Committee into the cause of the public health catastrophe, which has infected 750 individuals and left 64 dead nationwide. By all accounts, Michigan families have been hardest hit by the contamination, totaling 264 cases and 19 deaths, including 3 fatalities from Upton’s own district. “To the families who have lost loved ones and to those patients who continue to suffer, we say ‘never again,’” said Upton. “This legislation is a major step forward to protect the public health and safety of the American people. It has been nearly one year since the tragic, deadly fungal meningitis outbreak and I am pleased to be working with my colleagues in the Senate to send a bill to the President’s desk, bringing this investigative and legislative effort to a successful conclusion soon.” The bill clarifies current federal law regarding pharmacy compounding and resolves the patchwork of current federal regulation by applying a uniform standard nationwide. Under the Drug Quality and Security Act, compounders who wish can register as outsourcing facilities, but those who choose to remain traditional pharmacies will continue to be regulated primarily by state boards of pharmacy, as they are in current law. Outsourcing facilities would be subject to oversight by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in much the same way as traditional manufacturers are monitored. FDA will know who these outsourcers are and what they are making, receive adverse event reports about compounded drugs, and have the authority and resources to conduct risk-based inspections. "By strengthening the prescription drug supply chain, the Drug Quality and Security Act helps protect American families against counterfeit drugs, unnecessary cost increases, and drug shortages. It helps Perrigo, its Michigan-based manufacturing facilities and employees, avoid millions of dollars worth of duplicative government regulation and red tape by imposing a nationally uniform system for tracking and tracing prescription drugs,” said Joseph C. Papa, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of Allegan employer Perrigo. “This is a fine example of the Congress working in a bi-partisan fashion to come up with a sensible solution to a problem. We commend Congressman Upton for his outstanding leadership on this issue to further enhance patient safety." The second title of the bill would replace today’s patchwork of state prescription-drug tracing laws by creating a new uniform framework for tracking drugs from the manufacturer to the pharmacy. There is currently no system for tracking the drugs that make up some four billion prescriptions per year in the United States, which means drugs that are stolen or counterfeit may not be discovered before reaching consumers. “Pfizer appreciates the leadership of Chairman Upton and his colleagues in the House and Senate to pass the bipartisan bill designed to secure the pharmaceutical supply chain,” said Tony Maddaluna, Executive Vice-President and President of Pfizer Global Supply, which employs thousands of workers in Kalamazoo County. “Patient safety is our top priority and this legislation will greatly enhance the security of the pharmaceutical supply chain.” A recently-released report from the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) confirmed that legislation is needed to clarify the FDA oversight of large-scale drug compounders. The nonpartisan office wrote that “this lack of consensus and differing FDA authority to oversee compounded drugs across the country has resulted in gaps in oversight of drug compounding,” posing a grave threat to public health.
09.16.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined with several area law enforcement officials today for the release of the Michigan report of “I’m the Guy You Pay Later,” part of the National Early Childhood Campaign by Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, a national bipartisan, nonprofit organization that does not receive federal, state or local government funding. “I’ve been a long-time advocate of good, quality preschool programming,” said Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “It’s impressive to see what this program could do in terms of changing lives for the better and saving money in the long term. The report shows that starting the proposed state-federal early education partnership could reduce the number of people in prisons by 4,300 in 10 years resulting in $206 million in the state, and increasing the number of high school students by 50,000. “My jail is filled with people who took the wrong path in life,” Kalamazoo County Sheriff Richard Fuller said in the report. “For many, the trouble began with academic struggles and behavioral problems early on, resulting in later school failure and crime. It shouldn’t have to be that way.” The Michigan report is part of a national survey that found that the cost of a state-federal partnership for preschool programs will cost $75 billion during a 10-year period – the same amount spent every year nationally for corrections departments to incarcerate more than 2 million criminals. Annually, Michigan spends $2 billion per year. Berrien County Undersheriff Chuck Heit said in the report that the choice is simple: “Pay for quality early education and care for Michigan’s kids now, or pay far more for the costs of crime in Michigan in the decade to come.” The report is to be available at The Fight Crime: Invest in Kids Michigan web site: http://www.fightcrime.org/state/michigan.
09.12.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, voted today to bring greater accountability to Michigan taxpayers by preventing fraudulent and wasteful payments under the Affordable Care Act. On July 5, 2013, while many Americans were enjoying a long Independence Day weekend with loved ones, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) dumped more than 600 pages of new health care regulations into the public domain. Buried within those pages was the HHS report stating the government would not be able to verify whether individual applicants qualify for taxpayer-funded insurance exchange subsidies. Instead, the administration would resort to relying on self-attestation and sample audits to “protect” the integrity of the new $1.1 trillion entitlement program. Some estimate this change could leave taxpayers on the hook for as much as $250 billion in fraudulent subsidy payments during the next decade. Today’s House-passed No Subsidies Without Verification Act, H.R. 2775, simply requires that an accurate eligibility verification system be put in place before subsidies are dispersed, thereby protecting taxpayer dollars before they go out the door. H.R. 2775 passed the House in a bipartisan vote of 235-191. Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement on today’s legislation: "H.R. 2775, the No Subsidies Without Verification Act, is an important step in reducing government waste, fraud, and abuse while protecting taxpayers from another costly burden of the health care law. “On Friday, July 5th, as Americans were still celebrating our nation’s independence, the Department of Health and Human Services quietly released more than 600 pages of new heath law regulations. Buried on page 350 was a bombshell announcement that the government would no longer verify that each applicant for exchange subsidies actually qualified for federal assistance. Instead, because the administration was woefully behind schedule and ill prepared despite the law being signed over three years ago, officials decided to rely on self-attestation and sample audits. This lack of oversight for a $1 trillion entitlement program is beyond belief. “This drastic policy change creates significant problems. Those who self-attest will continue to receive subsidies during audits that could take up to one year. Not verifying applicants’ eligibility could result in potentially hundreds of billions of dollars in fraudulent payments funded by the American taxpayers. As of today, no official changes have been made to the rule and no information regarding the timeframe to verify eligibility has been provided to Congress. “This legislation would prohibit the government from offering subsidies until a system is put in place to verify people’s eligibility and requires the HHS Inspector General to confirm subsidies are only issued to those Americans who qualify for them. H.R. 2775 also prevents the ‘pay and chase’ of fraudulent claims that plagues the health care system. “This is a bipartisan issue we cannot ignore. Our Senate colleagues are also working to address this problem and passed a similar measure through the Senate Appropriations Committee by unanimous consent. “Federal agencies continue to lose billions of dollars a year to waste, fraud, and abuse. Enough is enough. Taxpayers should not have to pay the price for the administration’s failure to get its work done on time. This is the right policy and it makes sense. I thank Diane Black and Renee Ellmers for their leadership.”
09.05.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, was presented this morning with the “Summer 2013 Champion of Seniors Award” for his dedication to working on behalf of millions of senior citizens in the United States and the benefits Medicare programs provide them. The award was presented to Upton in Kalamazoo following a selection process done by several state and local organizations based on criteria created by the National Grange, the nation’s oldest national agricultural organization that works to better life for those living in rural America. “It is an honor to serve our senior members of the community who have given so much that allows us to be where we are today,” said Upton, who is also chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “It is my duty -- and privilege – to look out for our elderly and most vulnerable citizens so they can live full and meaningful lives.” For over two years, Upton has helped lead the bipartisan effort to permanently fix the fundamentally flawed Medicare payment model that is used to reimburse our nation’s doctors. The current Medicare payment system – known as the Sustainable Growth Rate or simply the SGR – has been a source of continued worry, threatening physicians who serve Medicare beneficiaries with substantial across-the-board cuts in reimbursement. In late July, Upton’s committee unanimously approved a permanent SGR fix (H.R. 2810) that secures stable payments for doctors while promoting the highest quality of care and gives Michigan seniors the peace of mind in knowing that their trusted physician will be there for them. Medicare, the Medicare prescription drug benefit, the doctor-patient relationship for Medicare beneficiaries come under attack in recent years, according to Grange officials. “We wish to recognize those members of Congress who exhibited outstanding leadership to protect it and the benefits it provides to millions of seniors and their families,” said Grace Boatright, legislative director, who presented the award to Upton. The National Grange, formed shortly after the Civil War, was created to service agricultural and rural areas on a variety of issues such as economic development and education. The organization is represented in 37 states and has 300,000 members.
09.04.2013	Saying that it was time to clean up the contaminated 80-acre in the middle of Kalamazoo, Congressman Fred Upton said Wednesday evening he would continue to support efforts of local citizens who want the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to remove the PCBs that have been there for decades rather than cap it and cover it. “It’s time for this mess to be cleaned up,” said Upton, who is also Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “PCBs, a known carcinogen, have been sitting here for decades on top of a major aquifer that provides drinking water to residents throughout the area.” Upton was one of several speakers at the “Clean Up, Not Cover Up” event at Bell’s Eccentric Café in downtown Kalamazoo. It was sponsored by the Allied Site Task Force, which is working to persuade EPA officials that a total cleanup of the area is in the best interest of the community. EPA officials in March announced a plan to cap the site and monitor it at a cost of $36 million. A total cleanup of the site would cost $336 million, officials said. A private firm, Environmental Quality, has estimated a total site cleanup would cost about $120 million. EPA officials have stated that they have not decided on a final remedy and would consult community members before coming to a formal decision. They have not said when a decision will be made. Upton in 2007, when the EPA proposed piling PCB-contaminated sludge on the Allied site from Plainwell, fought against the action. Eventually, the EPA opted to remove the material and sent it to a landfill owned by Environmental Quality that is designated for such material. On August 1, 2013, Upton joined U.S. Senators Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow in sending a letter to the head of the EPA calling for the permanent removal of all PCB-contaminated materials from the site.
08.12.2013	When Dennis Hodgson returned from Vietnam in 1971 after serving 14 months as a cannoneer for 1st Cavalry Division (Airmobile), he just wanted to get home. Taking time to fill out the necessary paperwork was the last thing on the mind of a man who wanted to get back to Michigan and his fiancée. Forty-two years later, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, this morning presented the medals Hodgson earned during his time in the service of the United States Army: Air Medal, Army Commendation, National Defense Service, Vietnam Service, Marksman Badge, and Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon. “Dennis Hodgson was called to serve his country and he did so honorably,” Upton said. “I’m proud to be able to present Mr. Hodgson with these medals. “It’s important to recognize the dangerous work our service men and women do and have done through the decades.” Hodgson said it was his children who pushed him into getting his service medals. “We were just drafted,” Hodgson said of young men during that time period. “We were doing what our country wanted us to do and we did it. Some lost their lives. Some lost their limbs. “I feel the most for the families still suffering for their loved ones lost over there – and for any war.” Within months of coming home, Hodgson married his wife of 42 years, Kathleen. Together they’ve had five children and six grandchildren. They live in Kalamazoo. Hodgson is retired after working 36 years at the U.S. Post Office.
08.02.2013	Nearly 75 percent of all small businesses report that government regulations are hurting their bottom line operations, according to a January 2013 Wells Fargo/Gallup survey. Last year, federal rulemaking imposed a financial burden of $1.75 trillion on the U.S. economy – a figure that equaled almost 14 percent of national income. The House of Representatives today passed common-sense legislation to provide regulatory relief for these employers and guarantee that federal bureaucrats are held accountable to Congress and the American people. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, is an original cosponsor of H.R. 367, the Regulations from the Executive In Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, which passed by a vote of 232-183. “Unnecessary regulations unilaterally imposed by Washington bureaucrats are cutting into the bottom line of Michigan employers, making it more costly for them to do business and harder to create jobs. We should be incentivizing entrepreneurship and industry, not punishing it,” said Upton. “The REINS Act helps Michigan employers focus on their operations while restoring legislative authority to Congress to prevent excessive future regulation.” In 2009, federal agencies promulgated more than 3,500 rules, while Congress and the President signed into law only 125 statutes. The REINS Act holds federal bureaucrats accountable by requiring agencies to submit major regulations to Congress for approval and guaranteeing that no major rule can become effective until Congress approves it. H.R. 367 also provides that an up-or-down vote occur on major rules within 70 legislative days of being submitted to Congress.
08.01.2013	U.S. Senator Carl Levin (D-MI), U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), and U.S. Representative Fred Upton (R-MI) today sent a letter to the head of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) calling for the permanent removal of all PCB-contaminated materials from the Allied Disposal Site in Kalamazoo. “Cleaning up the Allied Disposal Site in Kalamazoo, Michigan is among the most important environmental remediation projects in the state,” the letter stated. “Mayor Bobby Hopewell has indicated to us that the city’s goal is to achieve total removal of the PCB contaminated waste and we urge the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to adopt a cleanup remedy that achieves that goal.” The three legislators have backed Kalamazoo City officials and residents who want the total removal of the decades-old contamination, which is situated on top of the city’s largest drinking-water aquifer. This March, the EPA announced its plan to merely “cap and contain” the site as a long-term means of keeping PCBs from reaching the local water supply. “We believe that the EPA’s analysis should seek the best overall value for a cleanup remedy and take into account the Kalamazoo community’s legitimate need to redevelop the site. In addition, we hope that the Allied Disposal Site will be placed on the priority list for funding from the Superfund account.” A copy of the letter from Levin, Stabenow, and Upton to EPA Administrator McCarthy may be found HERE. Full text of the letter follows below. A copy of the letter from Levin, Stabenow, and Upton to Mayor Hopewell may be found HERE. August 1, 2013 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy: Cleaning up the Allied Disposal Site in Kalamazoo, Michigan is among the most important environmental remediation projects in the state. Mayor Bobby Hopewell has indicated to us that the City’s goal is to achieve total removal of the PCB contaminated waste and we urge the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to adopt a cleanup remedy that achieves that goal. We understand the EPA’s initial view is that a “cap and contain” remedy for the Allied site is the proper long-term solution. We do not share that view for following reasons. The Superfund law states a clear preference for the selection of remedial actions that involve permanent removal, and thus the EPA should strongly consider this remedy, especially given the site is located in the middle of a residential neighborhood and public health concerns need to be thoroughly taken into consideration. With respect to costs, it is our hope that the EPA will critically evaluate total project costs, including long-term monitoring costs, as well as the long-term economic advantages to the area that total removal offers, compared to the “cap and contain” option. By assessing the total costs, permanent removal would, it seems to us, most likely prove to be the most cost-effective solution. We also ask that the EPA examine the City’s position that up-front costs of total removal may be significantly lower than the EPA’s preliminary estimate. The cost of total removal, spread over the life of the project, would be more affordable in your budget. We believe that the EPA’s analysis should seek the best overall value for a cleanup remedy and take into account the Kalamazoo community’s legitimate need to redevelop the site. In addition, we hope that the Allied Disposal Site will be placed on the priority list for funding from the Superfund account. Finally, after cleanup is achieved, we ask that the EPA provide the City with a “comfort/status letter” with respect to environmental liabilities for the Allied site to help enable successful redevelopment of the site. Doing so would, once restored, help put this property back to productive reuse, generating revenues and economic benefits for the city. Thank you for your consideration of these requests. Sincerely, Carl Levin, United States Senator Debbie Stabenow, United States Senator Fred Upton, Member of Congress
07.31.2013	Relief is now in sight for countless Michigan student loan borrowers and their families thanks to today’s passage of the House-led Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act (H.R. 1911). Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, was among the 392 voting in the House to fix the problem caused when interest rates on subsidized undergraduate Stafford loans doubled to 6.8 percent on July 1 due to the Senate’s failure to act on a House bill passed in May. Today’s bipartisan fix that would move all federal student loans (except for Perkins loans) to a market-based interest rate, as opposed to a fixed rate chosen by Congress. Based on the current Treasury note, H.R. 1911 could reduce interest rates for millions of borrowers by 3 percent this summer. The bill passed by an overwhelming vote of 392-31 and now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “This legislation is a genuine victory for students and families here in Michigan. By cutting Washington out of the business of setting student loan interest rates we bring greater certainty for borrowers and keep rates low,” said Upton. “I am pleased that the Senate came to the table to support this common-sense measure, which allows borrowers to take advantage of low interest rates today and put in place caps to protect students from higher rates in the future. This responsible approach stabilizes the federal loan program for students, cuts out the politics, and is fair to the American taxpayer.” Under H.R. 1911, student loan interest rates would reset once a year and move with the market, but lock into a fixed rate once the loan is disbursed to the student, much like a fixed-rate mortgage. This market-based mechanism allows borrowers to take advantage of lower interest rates when available. Both subsidized and unsubsidized Stafford loans for undergraduates will be calculated based on the 10-year Treasury note plus 2.05 percent. Unsubsidized Stafford loans for graduate students will be calculated based on the 10-year Treasury note plus 3.6 percent. PLUS loans for graduate students and parents of dependent undergraduate students will be calculated based on the 10-year Treasury note plus 4.6 percent. H.R. 1911 also protects students against high interest rates in the future by including an 8.25 percent cap on undergraduate Stafford loan interest rates, a 9.5 percent cap on graduate Stafford loan interest rates, and a 10.5 percent cap on PLUS loan interest rates. “We’re happy that Congress reached a solution to this vexing problem,” said Greg Rosine, Western Michigan University vice president for government affairs. “The important outcome we all want to see is a predictable and affordable loan environment for our students.” H.R. 1911 allows borrowers to take out a consolidated loan after graduation, which will allow them to have one loan with one fixed interest rate. The interest rate will be based on the weighted average of the fixed rates on all of the federal student loans being consolidated. Students can also continue to take advantage of generous federal repayment and debt management initiatives, such as the income-based repayment program, loan forgiveness programs, and opportunities for deferment or forbearance.
07.31.2013	The House Energy and Commerce Committee chaired by Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today voted 51-0 to approve bipartisan legislation (H.R. 2810) that would permanently fix the fundamentally flawed Medicare payment model that is used to reimburse our nation’s doctors. The current Medicare payment system – known as the Sustainable Growth Rate or simply the SGR – has been a source of continued worry for Michigan seniors and physicians who serve Medicare beneficiaries. Every year, the SGR threatens medical providers with massive reimbursement rate cuts, which could result in fewer physicians being able or willing to serve Medicare patients. While Congress has historically responded by passing a temporary (and costly) patch to prevent the cuts from hitting our nation’s doctors, the flawed system has jeopardized the stability of Medicare and brought great uncertainty to millions of American seniors. “H.R. 2810 remedies this ailing physician payment system while encouraging the highest quality of care for Michigan’s seniors,” said Upton. “It gives seniors the peace of mind of knowing that their trusted physician will be there for them by securing stable payments for doctors. It also provides physicians the security they need to care for their patients by removing the specter of a practice-killing 25 percent across-the-board pay cut.” “Today’s vote is an important milestone, but we are all resolved to achieve reform in a fiscally responsible manner. Despite our significant progress, we will not be satisfied until the ink is dry on the president’s signature.” H.R. 2810, the Medicare Patient Access and Quality Improvement Act, would repeal the broken SGR formula and replace it. It simplifies the process and eliminates onerous paperwork, allowing physicians to focus on patient care. Earlier this month, Upton sat down with doctors in Kalamazoo to discuss his ongoing work as Chairman to improve the Medicare payment model. “The physician community in general, and in the Kalamazoo and St. Joseph areas in particular, is extremely thankful for Fred’s leadership in fixing the everlasting SGR problem,” said Dr. Krishna Jain, MD, the founder of Advanced Vascular Surgery in Kalamazoo. “We appreciate his leadership, especially the input he has sought from doctors.” H.R. 2810 is the product of more than two years of transparent and bipartisan work co-led by Upton and Michigan Congressman Dave Camp, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, as well as input from expert medical organizations. Upton is committed to completing the reform effort in a fiscally responsible manner and looks forward to its consideration by the full House of Representatives.
07.30.2013	Nearly 6 million children in the United States have food allergies – that’s roughly two students in every classroom. Anaphylaxis, a serious form of allergic reaction, can be fatal in a matter of minutes. In the event of an allergic reaction, epinephrine can be used to stop deadly swelling of the throat and tongue that occurs in an anaphylactic reaction. This evening, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the bipartisan the School Access to Emergency Epinephrine Act, H.R. 2094, which supports our nation’s schools as they work to ensure they have the capability to treat severe allergic reactions. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, praised the passage of the bill, which was recently advanced by his Energy and Commerce Committee. “A child having a serious allergic reaction at school is a parent and teacher’s worst nightmare,” said Upton. “When the difference between life and death comes down to a matter of minutes, ensuring that an emergency supply of epinephrine is available onsite is a matter of commonsense. This bipartisan legislation goes a long way to standardize this lifesaving practice, keeping our classrooms safe and saving untold lives in the process.” Coauthored by Congressman Phil Roe (R-TN) and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), H.R. 2094 would provide an incentive for states to allow schools to maintain an emergency supply of epinephrine auto-injectors and permit trained school personnel to administer a non-student specific epinephrine shot in case of an emergency. The legislation also requires states to review their own civil liability protection laws to ensure there is adequate protection for school personnel authorized to aid students.
07.29.2013	Following a tour of local employer ServiceMaster of Kalamazoo, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, sat down this morning with area small business owners to discuss how the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is affecting their operations and employees, specifically the impact of the health insurance tax (HIT). “Small businesses are on the frontlines of Michigan’s recovery, providing the job creation, investment, and local revenue our communities need. They deserve our full support and to have their voices heard,” said Upton. “The challenges that these small businesses face because of the healthcare law and its requirements are devastatingly real. The new health insurance tax threatens workers with dramatically higher insurance premiums and could jeopardize their employer-provided coverage all together. If the President is serious about supporting jobs, that should begin by removing the unnecessary roadblocks that penalize the small business community and their employees.” Beginning in 2014, the health care law imposes the HIT on the nation’s health insurers. However, as the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) notes, the tax “would be largely passed through to consumers in the form of higher premiums for private coverage.” The HIT will fall heavily upon the nation’s 5.8 million small businesses and 15 million self-employed individuals, while mostly bypassing larger self-insured entities. “I’ve always provided health care coverage to my employees, but with these costs continuing to increase, new burdens like the HIT are only exacerbating the problem and could force me to reconsider offering this benefit,” said Tom Little, owner of ServiceMaster of Kalamazoo for more than 30 years. “It is encouraging to know that leaders in Congress like Rep. Upton have heard the concerns of small business owners like me and are fighting on our behalf to reestablish a pro-growth environment so small businesses can thrive.” The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) estimates that the HIT – which increases taxes by $102 billion over the next decade – will reduce private-sector employment by 146,000 to 262,000 jobs in 2021. “Smaller companies already face significant challenges in the marketplace against their larger competitors and at the very least, deserve the chance to operate on a level playing field,” said Charlie Owens, the Michigan State Director of the NFIB. “More than 3.2 million Michigan residents work for a small business in our state and depend on this income to provide for their families. It is for these Americans and the millions more across the country who depend on the success of small businesses that Congress must repeal the HIT.” This Thursday, August 1, the House Energy and Commerce Committee chaired by Upton will hear from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Marilyn Tavenner on the administration’s implementation of the health care law.
07.24.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement in response to the Obama administration’s release of the 2013 Asian Carp Control Strategy Framework. The updated framework adds several new measures to prevent the destructive species from accessing the Great Lakes, including strengthening the electric barrier system in the Chicago area and deploying new physical and chemical control tools. The administration also acknowledges the need for a long-term solution, citing a new project to physically separate the Great Lakes and Mississippi River basin. “Today’s announcement is a welcome step in the right direction, but the need for a permanent solution to protect our Great Lakes remains as urgent as ever,” said Upton. “These treasured waters support countless jobs in our region and billions of dollars of economic activity each year. Our efforts will not stop until the Asian carp threat is stopped once and for all.” Upton is an original cosponsor of the Asian Carp Prevention Act of 2013, H.R. 985, which directs the Secretary of the Army to coordinate and lead federal actions to prevent the spread of the invasive species in the Great Lakes and its tributaries. Those projects may include: installing electric, acoustic, air bubble, or other barriers; applying pesticides; improving the locks; and taking necessary actions at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam near Joliet, Illinois. H.R. 985 further requires the Secretary to implement the emergency measures recommended in the dispersal barrier efficacy study, or provided in interim reports, authorized by Congress under the Water Resources Development Act of 2007.
07.19.2013	There is broad consensus among educators, school administrators, and parents that current federal education policy is no longer effectively serving the needs of the nation’s students and is unfairly punishing cash-strapped school districts. That policy – the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) – has not been revisited since the enactment of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, which expired back in 2007. Today, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, voted for the Student Success Act, H.R. 5, which reauthorizes ESEA for five years and institutes commonsense reforms that grant states and local school districts greater authority in the classroom. H.R. 5 passed by a vote of 221-207 and now heads to the Senate for consideration. “Putting control of the classroom back in the hands of teachers and parents is essential to the success of our students, particularly in our most vulnerable school districts,” said Upton. “For too long, we have witnessed the damaging impact that unattainable federal standards and punitive ‘improvement strategies’ have had on Michigan’s schools. Doubling down on the failed status quo is not fair to our students and families.” Originally enacted in 1965, ESEA provides federal funding to elementary and secondary schools, primarily to supplement state and local funding for disadvantaged students. Without congressional reauthorization, the Obama administration has used federal funds meant for all students to coerce states into adopting the Common Core and various other policies preferred by the administration in the form of waivers from current federal regulations. H.R. 5 repeals ESEA’s Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) requirement and federally-prescribed school improvement and turnaround intervention programs. It directs states to develop academic achievement standards, assessments, and accountability mechanisms to measure learning outcomes. The Student Success Act protects state and local autonomy by prohibiting the Secretary of Education from imposing conditions and additional burdens on states, including those involving Common Core and other state standards and assessments.
07.17.2013	Speaking on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives earlier today, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, demanded relief for Michigan families and businesses from the Affordable Care Act. Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, urged the chamber to pass legislation that would delay both the law’s employer and individual mandates. The Authority for Mandate Delay Act, H.R. 2667, delays for one year the healthcare law’s requirement that employers who employ more than 50 full-time employees provide approved healthcare coverage or pay a federal penalty. On July 2, 2013, the U.S. Department of Treasury announced that it was delaying this requirement; H.R. 2667 would codify this decision. The Act passed this evening by a bipartisan vote of 264-161. The Fairness for American Families Act, H.R. 2668, would offer the same relief of individuals that the administration has extended to businesses by delaying for one year the healthcare law’s requirement that individuals purchase approved healthcare coverage or face a federal tax penalty. H.R. 2668 passed this evening by a bipartisan vote of 251-174. Tomorrow afternoon, Upton’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations will hold a hearing examining the Obama administration’s recent announcements regarding the employer mandate and eligibility verification requirements contained in the Affordable Care Act. Upton’s floor remarks as prepared for delivery: It was just over two weeks ago, as Americans were gathering with loved ones to celebrate our nation’s independence, that a Treasury Department bureaucrat quietly posted a blog detailing a major policy shift in the administration’s signature health law - the delay of the employer mandate. While it appeared to be a sudden turnabout, today we learned the administration had made the decision in June and that “it was considered in a very careful way for a while.” This is a direct contradiction to previous testimony before Congress; every single time we had asked an administration witness if implementation was on track, they looked us in the eye and said yes. Why did the “most transparent administration in history” mislead Congress and try to dupe the public? Because it knew that the law is bad for business and bad for jobs. Today, we give the administration authority, in full view of the American public, to delay the employer mandate for one year. And the House will also stand up for the millions of young adults, working families, and older Americans who cannot afford the health care law’s looming rate shock. Fair is fair: if businesses aren’t subject to burdens and penalties under the health care law next year, average folks shouldn’t face them either. Many middle-class families will pay dramatically higher premiums as a result of the Affordable Care Act. The Energy and Commerce Committee surveyed 17 of the nation’s leading insurers and found many consumers in the individual market could see their premiums nearly double, with potential highs eclipsing 400 percent. The broken promises are many. Missed deadlines and delays have become routine. This law is so far off the rails that the administration is now disregarding entire sections of the statute. This debate is about jobs. It’s about fairness. We continue to believe a permanent delay of these damaging policies is the best course of action. For today, let’s join together and protect Americans for at least the next year. I ask my colleagues to support both H.R. 2667 and H.R 2668 so we can delay and dismantle these policies that will hurt Americans and job creation.
07.15.2013	** Fred discusses SGR reform on WWMT Newschannel 3. Watch that interview HERE. ** Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, met today with area doctors to discuss his ongoing work as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee to improve the fundamentally flawed Medicare payment model that is used to reimburse our nation’s doctors. Since its enactment as part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, the current payment system – known as the Sustainable Growth Rate or simply the SGR – has been a source of continued concern for physicians who serve Medicare beneficiaries and for the beneficiaries themselves. Every year, the SGR threatens medical providers with massive reimbursement rate cuts, which could result in fewer physicians being able or willing to serve Medicare patients. While Congress has historically responded by passing a temporary (and costly) patch to prevent the cuts from hitting our nation’s doctors, the flawed system has jeopardized the stability of Medicare and brought great uncertainty to millions of American seniors. For more than two and a half years, Upton has helped lead the bipartisan effort in Congress to permanently repeal Medicare’s broken SGR system and replace it with one that incentivizes quality care and puts the nation’s seniors and doctors first. “Fixing the broken reimbursement system is vital to ensuring economic stability for Michigan’s doctors, access to care for our seniors, and securing the future of the Medicare system,” said Upton. “The input that I receive from our local healthcare providers is invaluable as we work to make a system that is stable and fair.” “Congress cannot afford to continue kicking this can down the road, but must work together on a permanent solution for America’s doctors, seniors, and taxpayers. By continuing to work on this issue in a bipartisan manner, I am hopeful that we will see much-needed SGR reform make its way to the President’s desk.” Along with the House Ways and Means Committee, chaired by Michigan Congressman Dave Camp, R-Midland, Upton’s committee recently unveiled an advanced legislative framework to repeal and replace the SGR. Upton’s Health Subcommittee is expected to approve the reform legislation with bipartisan support next week. “Fred met a number of physicians this morning to discuss the upcoming bill through his committee and get physician input to have a payment system based on quality and not quantity and do away with SGR,” said Dr. Krishan Jain, MD, the founder of Advanced Vascular Surgery in Kalamazoo. “It was a very meaningful meeting and the physician community thanks Fred in providing leadership in this crucial area for providing relief to physicians while they continue to take care of elderly.”
07.10.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, sat down today with officials from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to discuss the impact that the agency’s proposed rulemaking will have on Michigan farmers as the FDA works to implement the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA). Enacted in January 2011, the FSMA seeks to ensure the safety of the nation’s food supply, in part, by greatly expanding the size and scope of the FDA’s authority in such matters. During the meeting, Upton shared the concerns he has heard from farmers in Southwest Michigan. FSMA implementation has frustrated the farmers, who say some of the proposed rules would harm farm operations that are already complying with food safety standards. “From farm to table, it is critically important to ensure the food we consume is safe. No one understands that better or is more strongly committed to the goal of food safety than America’s farmers,” said Upton. “If our food safety standards and procedures are to be effectively implemented, our local farmers must have a voice in the rulemaking process. Needless overregulation where our farmers are already doing the right thing does nothing but endanger U.S. agriculture.” Fred Leitz of Leitz Farms, LLC, a fifth-generation family-owned farm in Berrien County, is one of many Michigan growers concerned with the potentially detrimental consequences of ill-conceived FDA rules. “FDA needs to take into consideration the different sources of water and the regulations that apply. Southwest Michigan farms make great use of clean well water and should not have the same challenges as those making use of treated municipal water,” said Leitz. “FDA needs to make sure that rules are applied fairly and uniformly so that the entire state doesn’t suffer from one incident with one producer. Michigan farms comply with all of the market based food safety initiatives for the sake of their customers and FSMA rules need to take into account the differences between market-demanded safety techniques and obtrusive regulations.”
07.04.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issue the following statement in recognition of Independence Day: “This July Fourth, folks across Michigan and the nation will come together with family members, friends, and neighbors to proudly celebrate our nation’s independence. As we enjoy backyard barbeques, afternoons at the beach, community parades, and evening fireworks displays, we are reminded of the founding values and countless personal sacrifices that have built our great nation. “Today we live in a world that would be virtually unrecognizable to our Founding Fathers. But the principles enumerated in our Declaration of Independence remain timeless. Particularly in times of uncertainty and political partisanship, our core beliefs and values continue to guide us. A commitment to life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness, and limited government will not guide us astray. “We also continue to keep in mind the heroic sacrifices made by the brave members of our Armed Forces, our veterans, and their families. We are so proud of their service to keep our nation safe and secure. For those actively deployed, we pray for their safety and await their return home. We will never forget that the freedoms and security we all enjoy come from those who serve."
07.02.2013	The Obama administration announced today its decision to delay implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act’s employer mandate, a central component of the President’s healthcare law. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, noted that the one-year delay neither fixes the problems of Obamacare nor brings Michigan families and local business owners the relief they deserve. "For the last three years, the law has been plagued by broken promises, projected cost increases, delays, and missed deadlines. The administration's sudden turnabout is a clear admission that its signature law is bad for business and bad for jobs,” said Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. “We have all heard the warnings, and a one-year delay does nothing to fix the law's fundamental flaws. This law will never be ready for prime time and sadly, the administration's acknowledgement that it still needs yet another year clearly disrupts everyone's ability to determine what is best for them and their business.” David C. Rhoa, president of Lake Michigan Mailers Inc., a small business in Kalamazoo, welcomed news of the delay. “I am gratified to see that the Obama administration has finally heard what the small business community has been screaming from the top of its lungs since before the Affordable Care Act was signed into law; namely, the rules imposed on small business under the ACA are vague, onerous, excessive, and will lead to reduced hours and reduced employment opportunities,” said Rhoa, who heads the 36-year-old family business that employs 55 workers. Questions, however, remain. “Given the complexity of this law, I will need to review the full details of this announcement before I can determine how this change will directly impact my company and my employees,” Rhoa said.
06.21.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, following a tour Friday of Palisades Nuclear Power Plant and meeting with officials there, said he was assured that full corrective measures had been taken that allowed the facility to restart operations this week. “We were here to see what has been done and to ask tough questions about the maintenance of the plant,” said Upton, who also serves as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “We appreciate the hard work Palisades employees have done to fix this problem, but we want to know what Entergy’s plans are to prevent future problems from occurring. “I want to see Palisades operate at the highest levels of safety. No one’s going to take a shortcut to safety – certainly not in our district, not anywhere in the country.” While Upton was there, he talked to resident Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) inspectors at the plant. “I wanted to hear from the front-line, boots-on-the-ground people to get the full story,” Upton said. The plant was offline for 43 days after a leak in the bottom of a water storage tank was discovered. Following a replacement of the tank floor and nozzles, Palisades returned to service earlier this week. The NRC independently verified that Entergy Corp., Palisades’ owner, repaired the leak and verified that the plant is safe to operate. “In total 10 NRC inspectors performed a wide range of inspections to ensure the leak in a refueling water tank, the reason for the shutdown, was fixed,” NRC officials stated in a June 17 report. “Going forward, the NRC will continue to make sure the tank remains safe. We will independently inspect the areas around the tank where leaks have been previously identified and will follow Entergy’s actions to monitor the tank.” Upton said he will continue to track progress at Palisades. “We’re going to make sure it operates safely,” Upton said. “It’s vital to all of us living in Southwest Michigan.”
06.14.2013	With 87 percent of the estimated incidents of unwanted sexual contact going unreported by those serving in our military because service men and women fear retaliation, it is time to change the system. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, is demanding stronger reforms to stop the spreading epidemic of sexual assault in the ranks of military personnel. By cosponsoring the bipartisan Military Justice Improvement Act of 2013 (H.R. 2016/S. 967), Upton wants to end the statistic that 62 percent of the women who reported assaults to the Defense Department indicated they suffered some sort of social, administrative or professional retaliation. Under this legislation – introduced by Congressman Dan Benishek (R-MI) and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) – the decision of whether a sexual assault case goes to trial moves outside the victim’s chain of command to an experienced military prosecutor. “Our military’s current system is broken and failing to protect those who have sacrificed so much to keep their nation safe and secure. This bipartisan legislation will help fix that problem and create a safer environment for all who answer our nation’s call,” said Upton. “The brave men and women of our Armed Forces have our full support on the field of battle – they deserve no less behind the frontlines and here at home.” “The last thing a sexual assault victim should have to worry about is whether they will receive justice or retaliation.” The Military Justice Improvement Act also requires a commanding officer who receives a report of sexual assault in his chain of command to immediately refer the report to the appropriate investigative officer. Further, the legislation would prohibit a commanding officer from overturning a conviction or changing a guilty finding to a lesser included offense. Upton also supported today’s passage of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (H.R. 1960), which included a number of provisions to address the sexual assault crisis, including mandatory minimum sentencing for sexual assault offenders and expanded services for victims of abuse. H.R. 1960 passed by a bipartisan vote of 315 to 108.
06.13.2013	President Obama today signed into law S.622, the Animal Drug and Animal Generic Drug User Fee Reauthorization Act of 2013. This important legislation has been a top priority for Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, who serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. The much-anticipated legislation creates a more efficient federal review process for new and generic animal drugs. A streamlined approval process helps Michigan employers like Zoetis and Perrigo better compete, innovate, and create jobs by getting their drugs to veterinarians, livestock and poultry producers, and pet owners in a timely manner. “Today we have good news for American families and farmers,” said Upton. “These programs that help keep animals healthy and bring new drugs to market will continue without interruption. Further, this bipartisan measure also protects local jobs because ADUFA and AGDUFA provide companies like Zoetis and Perrigo – which account for hundreds of Southwest Michigan jobs – with the predictability they need to produce innovative drugs for pets and livestock.” More specifically, S. 622 reauthorizes and combines two existing user fee programs – the Animal Drug User Fee Act (ADUFA) and the Animal Generic Drug User Fee Act (AGDUFA) – that are set to expire at the end of Fiscal Year 2013. Renewing these important programs benefits Southwest Michigan manufacturers by ensuring that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) can continue the timely review of new and generic animal drugs. S. 622 is the near-identical Senate version of the Animal Drug User Fee Amendments of 2013, H.R. 1407, which Upton’s committee approved by voice vote last month. S. 622 recently passed the House by a vote of 390 to 12. “Both ADUFA and AGDUFA help provide the framework for the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) to thoroughly evaluate the safety and efficiency of animal drugs, giving veterinarians and livestock producers the tools they need to protect animal health and the safety of animal food products,” Kathy R. Mitchell, Director of U.S. Government Relations at Zoetis, wrote in a recent letter to Upton. “The reauthorization of these important programs will enable the FDA to continue its timely review of animal drugs, critical to protecting the health and wellness of U.S. livestock and companion animals, through September 2018,” continued Mitchell. Last Congress, Upton led the way in the House for the successful, bipartisan reauthorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) and the Medical Device User Fee Act (MDUFA), which streamlined the federal approval process for new prescription drugs and medical devices. These commonsense reforms enable Michigan manufacturers like Perrigo, Pfizer, and Stryker to better compete, innovate, and create jobs. The reauthorizations also significantly improve patient care by ensuring that lifesaving American-made products are brought to market in a safe and timely matter.
06.07.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement in honor and recognition of his friend and Michigan colleague, Congressman John D. Dingell, D-Dearborn, who today became the longest-serving Member of Congress in the history of the United States. “Historians will forever rank John Dingell among the greatest members ever to serve in the United States Congress. Administrations have come and gone, wars have been fought, and the great headlines of the day have all but faded, but the gentleman from the Great State of Michigan presides. For decades, John has earned the respect and admiration of his colleagues for his thoughtful leadership, masterful command of the legislative process, and love for our great nation. It has been a privilege to continue to work beside him on so many issues important to our state and the nation: fighting for Michigan’s manufacturers and auto industry, defending our treasured Great Lakes, and enacting comprehensive pipeline safety standards, only to name a few. But above all, it is an honor to call him a close personal friend.” Dingell has served in the U.S. House of Representatives since December 1955. Before Upton became Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce in 2011, Dingell served as Chairman from 1981 to 1994 and again from 2007 to 2008.
06.03.2013	The House voted today to pass important legislation to renew the successful federal approval programs for new and generic animal drugs as well as legislation to secure the nation’s prescription drug supply chain. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, praised the passage of both bills, which were approved on May 15, 2013, by his Energy and Commerce Committee. The Animal Drug and Animal Generic Drug User Fee Reauthorization Act of 2013, S. 622, reauthorizes and combines two existing user fee programs – the Animal Drug User Fee Act (ADUFA) and the Animal Generic Drug User Fee Act (AGDUFA) – that are set to expire at the end of Fiscal Year 2013. Renewing these important programs benefits local employers like Zoetis, Perrigo, and MPI Research by ensuring that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) can continue the timely review of new and generic animal drugs. A streamlined approval process helps Michigan manufacturers better compete, innovate, and create jobs by getting their drugs to veterinarians, livestock and poultry producers, and pet owners in a timely manner. S. 622 is the near-identical Senate version of the Animal Drug User Fee Amendments of 2013, H.R. 1407, which Upton’s committee approved by voice vote last month. S. 622 passed the House this evening by a vote of 390 to 12 and next heads to the President’s desk for approval. “These programs ensure that veterinarians, livestock and poultry producers, and pet owners have access to the drugs they need to keep their animals healthy. In addition, they assist our drug manufacturers by fostering a predictable federal review process,” said Upton. “Timely reauthorization of these programs is important for companies like Zoetis, Perrigo, and MPI Research, which employ hundreds of folks in Southwest Michigan. These FDA programs give them the predictability they need to produce innovative drugs for pets and livestock, helping them better compete with overseas competitors.” “Both ADUFA and AGDUFA help provide the framework for the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) to thoroughly evaluate the safety and efficiency of animal drugs, giving veterinarians and livestock producers the tools they need to protect animal health and the safety of animal food products,” wrote Kathy R. Mitchell, Director of U.S. Government Relations at Zoetis, Inc, in a May 8, 2013, letter to Upton. “The reauthorization of these important programs will enable the FDA to continue its timely review of animal drugs, critical to protecting the health and wellness of U.S. livestock and companion animals, through September 2018,” continued Mitchell. The Safeguarding America’s Pharmaceuticals Act 2013, H.R. 1919, seeks to enhance the security of the drug supply chain for U.S. patients without saddling drug manufacturers, wholesale distributors and pharmacies with duplicative federal and state requirements. Further, H.R. 1919 establishes the process on how to trace individual units of pharmaceutical products and when that would begin. H.R. 1919 passed the House this afternoon by voice vote and now awaits consideration in the Senate. “This bipartisan bill strengthens the prescription drug supply chain in order to protect Michigan families against counterfeit drugs. It also helps prevent increases in drug prices, avoid additional drug shortages, and eliminate hundreds of millions of dollars worth of government red tape on American businesses that is harming job growth,” said Upton. “The prevalence of counterfeit prescription drugs is a threat to the safety and wellbeing of our communities. A track and trace system is an effective way to help combat the actions of those who put our nation’s families at risk,” said Berrien County Sheriff Paul Bailey. “The law enforcement community applauds Congressman Upton for his continued leadership to help keep our region safe.”
05.23.2013	Millions of student loan borrowers will soon see their interest rates double unless a responsible, long-term solution is enacted. Under current law, interest rates for subsidized Stafford loans made to undergraduates are scheduled to jump from 3.4 to 6.8 percent on July 1, 2013. To prevent this hike from hitting Michigan students and their families, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, voted today for bipartisan legislation that would move all federal student loans (except for Perkins loans) to a market-based interest rate, as opposed to a fixed rate chosen by Congress. Based on the current Treasury note, today’s legislation – the Smarter Solutions for Students Act (H.R. 1911) – could reduce interest rates for millions of borrowers by as much as 2 percent this summer. H.R. 1911 passed the House of Representatives this afternoon by a vote of 221 to 198 and now awaits consideration in the Senate. “The cost of higher education can be daunting for students and families here in Michigan and across the country. Leaving Washington in charge of setting student loan interest rates is shortsighted and brings nothing but greater uncertainty for borrowers,” said Upton. “These common-sense reforms allow borrowers to take advantage of low interest rates today and put in place caps to protect students from higher rates in the future. This responsible approach stabilizes the federal loan program for students, cuts out the politics, and is fair to the American taxpayer.” Under H.R. 1911, student loan interest rates would reset once a year and move with the market, allowing borrowers to take advantage of lower interest rates when available. Both subsidized and unsubsidized Stafford loans for undergraduates will be calculated based on the 10-year Treasury note plus 2.5 percent. PLUS loans for graduate students, professional degree students, and parents of dependent undergraduate students will be calculated based on the 10-year Treasury note plus 4.5 percent. H.R. 1911 also protects students against high interest rates in the future by including an 8.5 percent cap on Stafford loan interest rates and a 10.5 percent cap on PLUS loan interest rates. "We're happy that Congress is making strides toward finding a solution to this vexing problem, as the July 1 deadline looms," says Greg Rosine, Western Michigan University vice president for government affairs. "The important outcome we all want to see is a predictable and affordable loan environment for our students.".R. 1911 maintains a student’s ability to consolidate their loans after graduation and lock in a fixed rate for the life of the loan. Students can also continue to take advantage of generous federal repayment and debt management initiatives, such as the income-based repayment program, loan forgiveness programs, and opportunities for deferment or forbearance. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that H.R. 1911 will save the federal government nearly $1 billion over the next five years (2013-2018) and $3.7 billion over the next 10 years (2013-2023).
05.22.2013	Watch Fred's Floor remarks HERE The U.S. House of Representatives today stood up for American jobs and energy security by approving bipartisan legislation to build the Keystone XL pipeline. The Keystone XL pipeline is a $7 billion private-sector infrastructure project that will bring tens of thousands of jobs and greater energy security to the United States, but unfortunately the project has been tied up in regulatory review for more than four years. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, praised the passage of H.R. 3, the Northern Route Approval Act, which will clear away the project’s remaining regulatory and legal hurdles, including removal of the requirement for a Presidential Permit. H.R. 3 passed the House this evening by a vote of 241 to 175 and now heads to the Senate for further consideration. “Today, we have an historic opportunity to create tens of thousands of U.S. jobs and take a major step toward actualizing North American energy independence,” said Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and who earlier today spoke on the House Floor in support of H.R. 3. “After more than four years of regulatory delay, the administration has run out of excuses.” Approval of the Keystone XL pipeline means jobs, energy security, and lower gas and energy prices here in the United States. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, the Keystone pipeline would transport some 830,000 barrels of oil per day from Alberta, Canada, to U.S. refineries in the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions. Construction of the project would directly create 20,000 jobs and indirectly create tens of thousands of spin-off jobs. While enjoying bipartisan support in Congress, H.R. 3 is also supported by a broad range of diverse organizations representing American workers and employers. The Keystone XL project has been subject to more than 15,500 pages of federal environmental review. What’s more, pipelines remain the safest and most environmentally sound way to transport oil supplies. In the last Congress, Upton worked closely with Michigan Congressman John Dingell, the former Democratic Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, to craft and shepherd through the bipartisan Pipeline Infrastructure and Community Protection Act (H.R. 2937), which ensures vital updates and improvements are made in U.S. pipeline safety. A final agreement on pipeline safety legislation was signed into law by the President at the beginning of 2012.
05.17.2013	Following the exposure of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) actions that targeted conservative-leaning organizations, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, is demanding stronger protections for American taxpayers by making it a crime for IRS employees to engage in targeted discrimination. Upton is a cosponsor of the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination and Protection Act of 2013, H.R. 1950, which aims to prevent such biased, politically-motivated discrimination by increasing the maximum penalty for IRS employee misconduct against taxpayers from termination to a criminal punishment. “This thuggish abuse of power is outrageous and undermines the public trust,” said Upton. “Such wrongful discrimination threatens our constitutional rights of free political speech and expression – it’s simply un-American. No administration is above the law; we must ensure full public accountability and guarantee that American taxpayers are never the targets of their own government.” H.R. 1950 would allow the federal government to impose a fine, up to five years imprisonment, or both for an IRS employee engaging in such discrimination. This is identical to the maximum imprisonment for a member of the President’s Cabinet who directs an employee to take that sort of action. The legislation further reaffirms that political speech and political expression are rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States. In a May 10, 2013, appearance before the American Bar Association, Lois Lerner, head of the IRS division that oversees tax-exempt organizations, acknowledged that the agency has been targeting conservative-leaning groups. That statement directly contradicts testimony and written responses provided by the IRS to Congress during the course of a nearly two-year investigation initiated by the House Committee on Ways and Means and joined by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. On Tuesday, May 14, 2013, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration issued a 54-page report concerning the IRS’s use of “inappropriate criteria that identified for review Tea Party and other organizations applying for tax-exempt status based upon their names or policy positions instead of indications of potential political campaign intervention.” Click HERE to read that report.
05.16.2013	The U.S. House of Representatives voted this afternoon to fully repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. Today’s vote follows the recent release of a report by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Chaired by Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, which highlights the significant health insurance premium increases consumers could face as a result of the healthcare law. The repeal legislation, H.R. 45, passed the House by a vote of 229 to 195 and now awaits consideration in the Senate. “Since the passage of Obamacare, we have encountered an ugly reality filled with broken promises, rampant uncertainty, rising premiums, and harmful consequences for jobs and our economy,” said Upton. “The looming rate increases will be devastating for millions of Americans, particularly those with a limited income, including recent college graduates and older Americans. Today we keep our promise to the American people as we continue working to repeal this bureaucratic train wreck and replace it with real solutions that drive down healthcare costs for all Americans.” Upton’s committee has exercised rigorous oversight into how the law has been implemented as well as the impact it will have on patients, providers, the economy, taxpayers, and states. Released on Monday, May 13, the Energy and Commerce report cites one leading national insurer that has predicted a 96 percent increase in premiums for those getting a new health insurance plan in the individual market. Customers who want to keep their existing insurance can expect an average increase of 73 percent. The average yearly cost for a new customer in the individual market grows from $1,896 to $3,708 – a $1,812 cost increase. Read the full Energy and Commerce Committee report, “The Looming Premium Rate Shock,” HERE.
05.15.2013	The House Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, today advanced bipartisan legislation to renew the successful federal approval programs for new and generic animal drugs as well as legislation to secure the nation’s prescription drug supply chain. Both measures passed by voice vote and await consideration before the full House of Representatives. The Animal Drug User Fee Amendments of 2013, H.R. 1407, reauthorizes and combines two existing user fee programs – the Animal Drug User Fee Act (ADUFA) and the Animal Generic Drug User Fee Act (AGDUFA) – that are set to expire at the end of Fiscal Year 2013. Renewing these important programs benefits local employers like Zoetis, Perrigo, and MPI Research by ensuring that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) can continue the timely review of new and generic animal drugs. A streamlined approval process helps Michigan manufacturers better compete, innovate, and create jobs by getting their drugs to veterinarians, livestock and poultry producers, and pet owners in a timely manner. “These programs ensure that veterinarians, livestock and poultry producers, and pet owners have access to the drugs they need to keep their animals healthy. In addition, they assist our drug manufacturers by fostering a predictable federal review process,” said Upton. “Timely reauthorization of these programs is important for companies like Zoetis, Perrigo, and MPI Research, which employ hundreds of folks in Southwest Michigan. These FDA programs give them the predictability they need to produce innovative drugs for pets and livestock, helping them better compete with overseas competitors.” Upton’s committee also passed the bipartisan Safeguarding America’s Pharmaceuticals Act 2013, H.R. 1919, which seeks to enhance the security of the drug supply chain for U.S. patients while preventing duplicative federal and state requirements from saddling drug manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and pharmacies. Further, H.R. 1919 would establish a collaborative, transparent process between the FDA and stakeholders in order to better understand how and when to move to unit-level traceability. “This bill would work to protect American families against counterfeit drugs and eliminate hundreds of millions of dollars worth of duplicative government regulations.”
05.14.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, joined a bipartisan group of Members of Congress from Michigan, Ohio, and Wisconsin in requesting that the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee prioritize the protection of the Great Lakes region from Asian carp. “ … The spread of Asian carp in the Great Lakes has posed a significant threat to the ecologic balance and economic viability of the Great Lakes fisheries that generate $7 billion annually,” the letter to the Committee Chairman and Ranking Member stated. “As our economy continues to slowly recover, it is necessary to ensure that preventive measures are in place to protect our Great Lakes region that supports 1.5 million U.S. jobs.” The bipartisan letter, led by Michigan Congressman Mike Rogers, requests that the committee hold a legislative hearing on the impact of the Asian carp on the Great Lakes as well as feasible prevention and control strategies. It also asks the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment to examine projects administered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and offer recommendations for a coordinated federal response to this invasive species issue. “Our Great Lakes are our most treasured natural resource, providing for countless jobs and economic activity here in Southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “Left unchecked, this destructive species will decimate the Great Lakes ecosystem along with the industry it supports. We owe it to future generations to protect these precious waters.” Upton is also an original cosponsor of the Asian Carp Prevention Act of 2013, H.R. 985, which directs the Secretary of the Army to coordinate and lead federal actions to prevent the spread of the invasive species in the Great Lakes and its tributaries. Those projects may include: installing electric, acoustic, air bubble, or other barriers; applying pesticides; improving the locks; and taking necessary actions at the Brandon Road Lock and Dam near Joliet, Illinois. H.R. 985 further requires the Secretary to implement the emergency measures recommended in the dispersal barrier efficacy study, or provided in interim reports, authorized by Congress under the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. A copy of the letter to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee is below. A copy of the letter may be found HERE. May 13, 2013 The Honorable Bill Shuster Chairman, House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee 2165 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Nick Rahall Ranking Member, House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee 2165 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Shuster, As the committee continues to prioritize legislative proposals during the 113th Congress, we respectfully request that you consider an issue critical to the health and prosperity of the Great Lakes region. Over the past several decades, the spread of Asian carp in the Great Lakes has posed a significant threat to the ecologic balance and economic viability of the Great Lakes fisheries that generate $7 billion annually. As our economy continues to slowly recover, it is necessary to ensure that preventive measures are in place to protect our Great Lakes region that supports 1.5 million U.S. jobs. In the 113th Congress, several legislative proposals have been introduced to prevent this invasive species from further damaging our country’s largest freshwater resource. The failure to expediently act on this critical issue will present our region with enormous economic hardships. For this reason, we ask that the committee dedicate a legislative hearing on the impact of Asian carp and feasible prevention and control strategies. The Army Corps of Engineers has taken a lead role in monitoring aquatic species through eDNA testing and other conventional sampling methods. We encourage the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment to examine the projects administered by the Corps and offer guidance for a coordinated federal response. Action is required to ensure the Great Lakes remain a national treasure for generations to come. We thank you for your leadership and look forward to working with the committee on remediation strategies to control the presence of Asian carp in the Great Lakes region and its tributaries. Sincerely, Rep. Mike J. Rogers Rep. Dan Benishek Rep. Dave Camp Rep. John Conyers Rep. Brian Higgins Rep. Bill Huizenga Rep. David Joyce Rep. Ron Kind Rep. Gary Peters Rep. Fred Upton Rep. Tim Walberg cc: Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment
05.13.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, with U.S. Senators Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow sent a letter last week strongly urging the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to complete the “total removal of all PCB contaminated materials from the Allied Site.” “The Allied Site is located within a wellhead protection area for multiple well fields providing ground water for the municipal drinking water,” the letter stated. “Because of this situation, the City of Kalamazoo is concerned the contaminated material could threaten the city’s water supply.” Upton has backed Kalamazoo City officials and residents, who want the total removal of the decades-old PCB-contaminated site sitting on top of the city's largest drinking-water aquifer, since learning in March of the EPA’s plan to merely cap the top of the site without providing any means of keeping PCBs from traveling downward into the water supply. In addition, Upton urged local officials to seek the cooperation of the state’s two U.S. Senators in signing the joint letter to the EPA. Kalamazoo City staff, who met with Upton on the issue April 30, said they "are grateful for all the help and we appreciate Fred for backing us from the beginning of this issue." Upton, who is also Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has repeatedly stated in public and to the media that he backs the city’s desire to get rid of the contaminants. In 2008, when the EPA’s regional director in Chicago ordered contaminants from Plainwell to be added to the Allied site, Upton brought the EPA Administrator to Kalamazoo. After learning of the situation, the Administrator ordered the regional director to change the plan, and the contaminants were, instead, taken to a Detroit-area landfill qualified to handle such material. Upton also announced that his staff, who has attended each of the weekly meetings held by a grassroots organization working to rid the city of the contaminated material, is slated to attend a meeting Thursday in Chicago between city and EPA officials. "This contaminated site is located in the heart of Kalamazoo, just as the letter to the EPA states,” Upton said. “It shouldn’t be in the middle of three of the largest neighborhoods in the city of Kalamazoo, much less on top of one of the main sources of drinking water for 120,000 residents. “The EPA needs to get it out of town. “My staff and I will continue to work with city officials and city residents to see that their wishes are heard by the EPA and that the best, most comprehensive solution is found and followed.” A copy of the letter signed by Upton, Levin and Stabenow is below. A copy of the letter may be found HERE. May 10, 2012 Dr. Susan Hedman Regional Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region V 77 West Jackson Boulevard Chicago, IL 60604-3590 Dear Dr. Hedman: We are writing concerning the Allied Operable Unit #1 Superfund Site (Allied Site) in Kalamazoo, Michigan. As you know, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is in the process of determining the final remediation plan for this site and its cleanup is of the utmost importance to the people living in the Kalamazoo area and to us. The Allied Site is located in the heart of Kalamazoo and is bordered by vibrant neighborhoods, where residents want this threat to the environment and public health dealt with permanently. The decision of a final remediation plan is of critical importance to these communities. The City of Kalamazoo and area residents favor the total removal of all PCB contaminated materials from the Allied Site. The Allied Site is located within a wellhead protection area for multiple well fields providing ground water for the municipal drinking water system. Because of this situation, the City of Kalamazoo is concerned the contaminated material could threaten the city’s water supply. The city has a firm bid from a Michigan contractor for $120 million to remove all the contaminated material for permanent disposal in a qualified landfill. That amount is far different from the $330 million figure the EPA assumed when making its decision to cap the landfill instead of removing the offending material. While this removal action would cost more than capping the landfill, the Superfund law states a clear preference for the selection of remedial actions that involve permanent removal, and thus EPA should strongly consider this remedy. Further, permanent removal may in fact be more cost-effective in the long-term since the site would not need to be monitored in perpetuity, and it could be re-developed for a variety of uses. We ask that you continue to work with the City and community members to address their concerns and adopt the full removal option at the Allied Site given its many benefits. We urge your urgent attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Senator Debbie Stabenow Senator Carl Levin Representative Fred Upton
05.13.2013	Following a tour of the Palisades Nuclear Power Plant with Nuclear Regulatory Commissioner Kristine Svinicki, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, issued the following statement: “We believe the source of the May 5 leak has been found,” said Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “A thorough inspection of the tank is being performed to check for any other leaks. All 10 nozzles on the tank have been or will shortly be replaced with those of a new design. “This issue rises above politics; as a community, the safety and effectiveness of this facility is important to us all. As this investigation continues, the NRC and Entergy have stated that Palisades will not go back online until they are certain it is safe and sound.” Upton said he will remain in constant communication with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and Palisades officials as they determine the best course of action to make sure there are no further leaks, including whether to replace the tank. “There will be no shortcuts,” Upton said. “This must be done right. And the NRC must have all the tools in the toolbox available to make sure this happens.” Upton said he will return to the plant before it goes back online. “Commissioner Svinicki recognizes the concerns that I have raised and share with all Southwest Michigan residents regarding the plant’s safety and security.” Upton viewed the problem tank and watched real-time recordings of workers checking it. A half-inch crack about the width of a thumbnail is believed to have been the source of the leak. It was found next to a nozzle that had not previously been replaced. Since learning of the recent tank leak, Upton has been in close contact with both the NRC, the independent federal agency charged with overseeing nuclear reactor safety and security, and Entergy Corporation, the New Orleans-based company that owns and operates the Palisades facility.
05.07.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, shares the concerns of many with the presence of another tank leak that has again shut down the Palisades Nuclear Power Plant and is calling for the facility to remain offline until the problem is permanently fixed. Upon learning of the leak, Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, has been in close contact with both the Nuclear Regulatory Agency (NRC), the independent federal agency charged with overseeing nuclear reactor safety and security, and Entergy Corporation, the New Orleans-based company that owns and operates the Covert Township facility. “This situation is not acceptable and demands full accountability,” said Upton. “I have been in contact with both the NRC and Entergy and am demanding a permanent solution.” Upton plans to visit Palisades with a member of the NRC Commission to inspect the recent leak. The NRC is headed by five Commissioners appointed by the President. “I expect to personally visit the facility with an NRC commissioner in the very near future. When it comes to nuclear energy, safety must always come first, and without that assurance by the NRC, the facility needs to stay offline. “It is my understanding that the water tank will be emptied by the end of the week with the hope that the cause of the leak can be identified shortly thereafter. Every option must be on the table – including a full replacement of the tank – to ensure that the continuing leak will not occur again.”
05.02.2013	More than 3.5 million cases of skin cancer are diagnosed in the United States every year, making it the most common type of cancer in the country. To help the fight against this deadly disease, Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, is reminding people that the month of May is Melanoma/Skin Cancer Detection and Prevention Month: an annual nationwide effort to raise awareness of skin cancer, encourage early detection, and educate the public about how it can be prevented. “Whether relaxing at the beach, throwing a backyard barbeque, or tending the lawn and garden, warmer weather means ample opportunities to enjoy Michigan’s great outdoors. But before venturing out into the sun, take a moment to make sure your skin remains healthy and protected,” said Upton. “Skin cancer is the most common type of cancer, but fortunately, it is one of the most easily treatable if detected early. Before enjoying your time in the sun, be sure to take the necessary precautions to ensure that you and your loved ones are protected.” There are more new cases of skin cancer diagnosed each year than cancers of the breast, prostate, lung, and colon combined. According to the American Cancer Society, melanoma, the deadliest form of skin cancer, is the most common form of cancer for adults between the ages of 25 and 29 and accounts for more than 9,000 of the 12,000-plus skin cancer deaths each year. In 2013 alone, melanoma will account for more than 76,600 cases of invasive skin cancer. While people with fair skin and a history of sunburn are at a higher risk, the truth is that everyone is susceptible to developing skin cancer. Fortunately, easy steps can be taken to protect ones skin and reduce the risk of cancer: avoid or limit sun exposure when the sun is at its peak; use sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher and reapply frequently, even on cloudy days; and take advantage of sunglasses, lip balm, and protective clothing. For more information on skin cancer prevention and early detection, patients should speak with a healthcare professional. Additional information may be found by visiting www.cancer.org.
04.29.2013	Anthony Sineni was awarded the Bronze Star for his heroic actions after fighting in the Battle of the Bulge and the liberation of the Dachau concentration camp during World War II, but the medal disappeared on its way back to his hometown of Coloma. Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, on Monday, presented Sineni, 91, with a new Bronze Star medal during a small ceremony at Royalton Manor, 288 Peace Boulevard in St. Joseph, where Sineni now resides. “Mr. Sineni deserved to have his Bronze Star after almost 70 years,” Upton said. “Like so many others, he just wanted to get home. His brave actions, along with thousands of men and women who served in the Armed Forces during the war, kept this country safe during a time of worldwide crisis and upheaval. Mr. Sineni is a true American hero and a living embodiment of the Greatest Generation. I was honored to be able to do this for him.” Sineni was a Private First Class, a rifleman in the 399th Infantry Regiment, when he and members of his platoon came under intense small arms fire near Talheim, Germany in April 1945. He and others “courageously advanced under the withering fire and assaulted the bunker (from which the attack came), neutralizing it,” according to the citation he received for the medal. Sineni treated several wounded comrades during the assault as he continued to fight. “His valorous achievement in the face of personal danger enabled the platoon to gain its objective and saved precious time in the treatment of the wounded.” Sineni was given his original Bronze Star and sent it home to his siblings in Coloma. However, when the package arrived, the medal was missing. Following the war, Sineni returned home, where he remained active in the American Legion, Post 362, including serving as its commander.
04.29.2013	Congressman Fred Upton on Monday kicked off the Google Michigan Get Your Business Online program in St. Joseph. “Whether you’re starting a business or trying to drum up more business, you have to be savvy about having a web site that works,” said Upton, R-St. Joseph. “People are looking at web sites for products and services. We want local businesses to be able to compete with those across the country and around the globe.” At the Michigan Get Your Business Online event, Google experts help small business owners create their own websites courtesy of Intuit. Businesses also receive a customized domain name, free web hosting for one year, a local business listing on Google Maps, free tools, training and resources. Google experts are on hand to train the business owners on how to reach more customers online. While 97% of Internet users look online for local products and services, 61% of Michigan small business do not have a website or online presence. “The perception that getting online is complex, costly and time-consuming has prevented many Michigan small businesses from taking the first step,” said Scott Levitan, Director of Small Business Engagement at Google. “This program makes it fast, easy and free for businesses to get online." Businesses unable to attend the event can still get a free website and resources by going to www.MichiganGetOnline.com. More information about the program and the St. Joseph event is also available on the website.
04.26.2013	Congressman Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, hailed today’s passage of bipartisan legislation to end the flight delays that travelers have needlessly experienced across the country as a result of air traffic controller furloughs. The Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013 (H.R. 1765) provides the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) with increased authority to transfer funding from lower priority items to support air traffic control operations and staffing through the remainder of the fiscal year without increasing the agency’s budget. H.R. 1765 also permits the Secretary of Transportation to make additional transfers within FAA accounts, allowing the Department to restore the FAA contract towers that are scheduled to be cut, including the W.K. Kellogg Airport in Battle Creek. H.R. 1765 passed the House by an overwhelming vote of 361 to 41, just a day after the Senate approved the same bill by unanimous consent. The bill does not increase spending or add to the deficit. It clarifies the ability of the Department of Transportation to make priorities within the sequester-level budget that the President signed into law last month. “Passengers will be spending fewer hours stuck in airport terminals and on the tarmac thanks to this commonsense measure, which puts public safety and transportation needs first,” said Upton. “Like other federal agencies operating under the sequester, the FAA has the authority and flexibility to prioritize funding for important public services. This has been political theater at its worst. Whether travelling for business or to visit loved ones, folks just want to know that their flights are safe and on time.” The FAA is required under the sequester to reduce its $15.8 billion budget by approximately 5 percent. On Sunday, April 21, 2013, the FAA began its announced policy of furloughing FAA air traffic controllers for one day every 10 days. Taking the lead from the administration, the FAA claimed that such measures were necessary to comply with the sequester, although Congress has already granted the FAA and other federal agencies such as the Department of Defense the authority to prioritize and reprogram funding within the budgetary confines of the sequester. In addition to the furloughs, the FAA claimed that it was necessary to close approximately 149 contract air traffic control towers located across the country and limit late night operations at an additional 72 towers because of increased costs. H.R. 1765 is intended to address both the furlough and contract tower issue. “Hopefully, this should also be good news for Battle Creek as the Transportation Secretary has been given the authority to keep contract towers from closing. We still do not know the rationale behind the administration’s decision to close the Battle Creek air traffic control tower, which is used by one of the country’s leading aviation colleges, the National Guard, and an aviation company that employs more than 500 workers.” On March 28, 2013, Upton sent a letter to the FAA and Transportation Secretary demanding an explanation of the decision to close the Battle Creek air traffic control tower. The W.K. Kellogg Airport is home to many, including the Battle Creek Air National Guard 110th Airlift Wing, Western Michigan University’s College of Aviation, and major local employer Duncan Aviation. The FAA has since announced that it has delayed the closure of the Battle Creek airport tower.
04.19.2013	Local law enforcement personnel lauded Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) for his efforts convincing the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to mandate that new generic versions of painkiller OxyContin contain certain formulations that reduce the potential for abuse. “For too long, drug abusers have been able to crush or dissolve opioid drug products like OxyContin and defeat the time-release mechanisms for snorting or injecting the drugs,” said Upton, who met with law enforcement leaders attending a meeting of the Michigan Association of Chiefs of Police, Fifth District, as well as other state and local officials. “This decision will ensure that the steps drug-makers have taken to make abuse-proof drugs will not be for naught.” Abuse of OxyContin reached epidemic proportions when a new form of the drug was introduced in 2010 that made it nearly impossible to inject or inhale. The new formulation has driven down abuse of the drug. When OxyContin’s patent ran out, however, the FDA originally decided that the generic version of the drug did not have to contain the same abuse-deterrent formulation as the brand-name product. “As Chairman of the committee that oversees the FDA, I could not let that happen,” said Upton, who is also chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “I wrote several letters to them, along with a bitpartisan group of colleagues from both the House and the Senate asking that the FEA mandate the same abuse-deterrent formulation for generics. “Our efforts worked. On Tuesday, FDA Commissioner Hamburg announced that the FDA will not approve any abbreviated new drug applications (NDAs) that do not require the new formulation. “More than 16,000 Americans die from opioid overdoses each year. Commissioner Hamburg’s announcement is a significant step forward in the federal government’s effort to reduce the abuse of these drugs and protect consumers.” Robert Stevenson, executive director of the Michigan Association of Chiefs of Police, Fifth District, thanked Upton for his efforts. “Quite frankly, if these changes to the formulation of OxyContin hadn’t been put into place, it would have been a real mess for law enforcement.,” he said. “Prescription drug abuse is a huge problem. And it can affect people from all walks of life – from the 65-year-old housewife to the 18-year-old high school students. But at least now there is a mechanism in place to keep new generic versions of OxyContin from being as easily accessed in order to turn it into something people can inhale or inject. Tim Bourgeois, chief of the Kalamazoo Township Police Department and member of the executive boards for the Southwest Michigan Enforcement Team and the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area of Michigan, said he was impressed by Upton’s action. “What’s very refreshing is that Fred got ahead of the issue and that he was able to get the FDA to fix this before it became an issue,” he said. “We didn’t have to face a period of months or years where OxyContin was diffusible again. I’m impressed he was able to do this.” Milt Agay, chief of the Berrien Springs Oronoko Township Police Department, who hosted the meeting, said there is nothing inherently wrong with OxyContin, when used as medically directed. “It’s helped a lot of people,” he said of the prescription product. “But some people turned a good thing bad. And they developed ways to abuse it and others in its class of opioids.” Berrien County Sheriff Paul Bailey noted that most law enforcement personnel have, at one point or another, has had to deal with someone hooked on OxyContin. “The drug itself is a boon for people suffering severe pain. But those who abuse it and get addicted usually end up doing bad things to support their habit – breaking into houses and so forth. It can wreck lives and careers. “If we can make it harder to abuse this drug, it helps all of us.”
04.18.2013	Each day, private American businesses are confronted with an onslaught of cyber attacks from individual hackers and those sponsored by countries like China, Iran, and Russia, which are seeking to steal valuable U.S. research and development. Rampant cyber exploitation and theft costs U.S. industry up to $400 billion in losses per year. These same entities also work to obtain sensitive national security information, targeting U.S. defense and weapons systems as well as critical energy, transportation, and telecommunications infrastructure systems. To stop these costly cyber threats, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today voted for bipartisan legislation – H.R. 624, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA) – that allows the federal government to share classified cyber threat intelligence with the private sector and allows the private sector to voluntarily share cyber threat information with one another and with the federal government. Authored by Michigan Congressman Mike Rogers, Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, H.R. 624 passed the House this afternoon by a bipartisan vote of 288 to 127 and now awaits consideration in the Senate. “American companies are under attack every day,” said Upton. “When nations like China or Russia steal our research, data, and trade secrets, they take good-paying American jobs along with them. These bad actors don’t care about the protecting the privacy of American families and businesses – the threat is real and this legislation would stop the vast majority of attacks. The United States has long been the global leader in innovation, but that status is being compromised. Rather than see hundreds of billions of dollars stolen from us each year, we want to see those private-sector dollars reinvested here at home.” H.R. 624 also serves to strongly protect the privacy and civil liberties of Americans, while still allowing for effective cyber threat sharing and providing clear authority for the private sector to defend its own networks. The sharing of anonymous cyber threat information between the U.S. government and the private sector is entirely voluntary and may only be used to protect those companies’ networks and their customers’ private information. The legislation also puts in places strong oversight from the Intelligence Community’s Inspector General to ensure information that has been shared by the private sector under CISPA is properly handled.
04.17.2013	Congressman Fred Upton praised today’s committee passage of bipartisan legislation that will remove the regulatory and legal roadblocks that continue to needlessly delay approval of the Keystone XL pipeline project. Keystone is a $7 billion private-sector infrastructure project will bring thousands of jobs and greater energy security to the United States, but it has been tied up in regulatory review for more than four years. Upton is a coauthor of the legislation – the Northern Route Approval Act (H.R. 3) – which would clear the remaining regulatory and legal hurdles, including removal of the project’s requirement for a Presidential Permit. H.R. 3 passed Upton’s Energy and Commerce Committee this afternoon by a bipartisan vote of 30-18 and will next be considered before the full House of Representatives. “Bottom line: this project is about creating tens of thousands of American jobs and expanding our supplies of affordable and reliable North American energy. If the administration will not seize this historic opportunity, Congress must,” said Upton. “This is the first step toward creating North American energy independence and not leaving us at the whim of the Middle East or Venezuelan elections. The Canadians will be producing millions of barrels per day from that region up in Alberta. It would be a tragedy to not see these jobs come to the United States and to see the oil go to China. Last week, our committee heard firsthand from growing Niles employer Delta Industrial Valves about the tremendous benefits Keystone will bring to local manufacturing. These success stories and job opportunities cannot happen unless Keystone gets built.” Last Wednesday, Upton’s committee heard from Delta Industrial Valves, Inc. of Niles, Michigan, concerning the importance of Keystone’s approval. The successful Berrien County manufacturer has grown in part because of expanding energy production in Western Canada. In his testimony, Delta president and co-owner Keith Stelter explained how companies like his will benefit from Keystone’s approval as well as the detrimental impact that the administration’s unnecessary delays have had on U.S. industry and jobs. Approval of the Keystone XL pipeline means jobs, energy security, and lower gas and energy prices here in the United States. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, the Keystone pipeline would transport some 830,000 barrels of oil per day from Alberta, Canada, to U.S. refineries in the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions. Construction of the project would directly create 20,000 jobs and indirectly create tens of thousands of spin-off jobs. Pipelines remain the safest and most environmentally sound way to transport oil supplies. Last Congress, Upton worked closely with Michigan Congressman John Dingell, the former Democratic Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, to craft and shepherd through the bipartisan Pipeline Infrastructure and Community Protection Act (H.R. 2937), which ensures vital updates and improvements are made in U.S. pipeline safety. A final agreement on pipeline safety legislation was signed into law by the President at the beginning of 2012.
04.16.2013	With 53 dead and hundreds sickened by a 2012 outbreak of fungal meningitis, U.S. Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) questioned Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Margaret Hamburg today whether lives could have been saved if the agency had taken action sooner. Upton, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, launched an investigation into the outbreak six months ago. The New England Compounding Center (NECC), based in Massachusetts, produced and distributed the contaminated steroids that led to fatalities across the country. Michigan was hard hit by the contamination. Fifteen of the 53 people who died after receiving tainted products are from Michigan, including three from Upton’s congressional district, according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Of the 733 people sickened, 259 call Michigan home. “We are all deeply saddened by this public health tragedy, which has caused tremendous pain and hardship for families in Southwest Michigan and across the country,” said Upton. “Unfortunately, it took the FDA months to fully cooperate with our committee’s investigation and provide the necessary documents. The FDA’s top priority is to make sure the medicines we take are safe, but this mission seemed to have been lost and innocent people suffered. We owe it to the families who lost loved ones and those hundreds of Americans who are still sick to ensure such a disaster is never repeated. Upton lauded Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette for his efforts to keep Michigan residents safe. “I also wish to commend Attorney General Schuette for his efforts,” said Upton. “He and his office are working tirelessly to protect Michigan families and hold the wrongdoers accountable.” Upton’s committee launched its investigation into the deadly outbreak in early October 2012, but the FDA did not begin to fully cooperate until March 2013, after the committee announced it was considering a congressional subpoena for FDA documents. The Energy and Commerce Committee released a report today citing internal FDA documents that chronicle the agency’s numerous opportunities over the years to address warning signs about NECC. Attorney General Schuette has asked the Michigan Court of Appeals to appoint a multi-county grand jury to investigate possible criminal charges against NECC. “Hundreds of Michigan citizens and their families have endured terrible pain and deaths of loved ones suffering from illnesses caused by these tainted steroid injections,” said Schuette. “In Michigan, I have called for a multi-county grand jury to investigate the truth as to how this unspeakable tragedy occurred. I applaud Chairman Upton’s efforts to shine a spotlight on this important health crisis at the federal level. Together we will discover what went wrong, bring bad actors to justice, and then work to implement new protections to ensure tragedies like this never happen again.” Click here to watch Upton’s opening remarks from today’s hearing Click here for more information on the committee’s full investigation
04.12.2013	With Tax Day just around the corner, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) is calling on Congress to enact comprehensive, pro-growth tax reform. “As we are all reminded this time each year, our current tax code is a massive, costly, and complicated mess. It’s time for comprehensive reform to lift the burden off of Michigan families and small businesses,” said Upton. “Enacting pro-growth reform that makes our system simpler, fairer, and more competitive would deliver the long-term boost our economy needs. I applaud Chairmen Camp and Baucus for their ongoing, bipartisan efforts to see much-needed tax reform made a reality this Congress.” Congressman Dave Camp (R-MI), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and Senator Max Baucus (D-MT), Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee and the Joint Committee on Taxation, are leading current efforts in Congress to see comprehensive tax reform enacted. According to the federal government’s own Taxpayer Advocate Service, U.S. taxpayers spend more than six billion hours and $168 billion every year to complete their tax filings. Today, the U.S. tax code weighs in at nearly four million words – more than five times the length of the King James Bible or nearly four times that of all seven Harry Potter books combined. “The complexity of our current federal tax code is a significant and persistent barrier to job creation and economic growth,” said David Rhoa, President of Lake Michigan Mailers of Kalamazoo. “It serves as an unnecessary and overly-costly burden to Michigan’s small business community and the families they employ. Michigan is a shining example of how simplifying the tax code can bring about economic renewal, job creation, and a level playing field for all of our citizens. The federal tax code must be reformed to ensure fairness and simplicity while fostering economic growth.” It has been more than a quarter century since the tax code was last overhauled. How complex is today’s tax code? - In 1913, when the annotated U.S. tax code was created, it was about 400 pages. Today, that code including its regulations, explanations, and annotations is more than 70,000 pages long - There has been 4,400-plus changes to the tax code in the last decade alone – more than one per day - The United States has more tax preparers than firefighters and police officers combined - The “easiest” tax form, the 1040EZ, has 46 pages of instructions
04.10.2013	(Click here to watch Upton's full opening remarks) Speaking before the Energy and Power Subcommittee, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today called on Congress to pass new, bipartisan legislation to remove the roadblocks that continue to needlessly delay approval of the Keystone XL pipeline project. Keystone is a $7 billion private-sector infrastructure project will bring thousands of jobs and greater energy security to the United States, but it has been tied up in regulatory review for over four years. Upton is a coauthor of the legislation – the Northern Route Approval Act (H.R. 3) – which would clear the remaining regulatory and legal hurdles, including removal of the project’s requirement for a Presidential Permit. “We have an historic opportunity with the Keystone XL pipeline to create thousands of good-paying American jobs and reduce our reliance on overseas energy. Unfortunately, the administration’s ongoing delays have kept the private-sector project on hold for more than four years, blocking the jobs and affordable energy that come with it,” said Upton. “We have all heard the employment numbers associated with Keystone, the tens of thousands of direct and indirect jobs that will be created – companies like Delta Industrial Valves of Niles put a face to those numbers. Delta’s made-in-America valves and the jobs that go with them are an important part of the Keystone XL story. But these jobs can’t happen unless Keystone XL gets built.” At today’s hearing, Upton welcomed testimony from Keith Stelter, president and co-owner of Delta Industrial Valves, Inc. in Niles, Michigan, whose business has grown in part because of expanding energy production in Western Canada. Upton visited the Berrien County manufacturer last April to highlight the company’s continued success as well as to underscore the importance of the Keystone project to local businesses. In his testimony, Stelter explained how local companies like his will benefit from Keystone’s approval as well as the detrimental impact that the administration’s unnecessary delays have had on U.S. industry and jobs. “Although Delta Industrial Valves are not actually used in oil pipelines, our valves are used extensively in the facilities on both ends of the pipelines. So the completion of the Keystone XL pipeline is very important to us and many, many other American companies,” said Stelter in his prepared testimony. “If the Keystone XL pipeline can be built, I would see my company probably doubling in size over the next ten years because of the oil sands projects that were cancelled or put ‘on hold’ being brought to life again.” “But the bigger picture that needs to be realized and understood by the current administration and Congress is that because of what the Canadians perceive as the U.S. ‘thumbing their nose’ at Canada, Canada has allowed PetroChina to become more and more involved in the oil sands. … This is (or should be) very concerning to the U.S. government, the current administration, and also the U.S. population in general.” Approval of the Keystone XL pipeline means jobs, energy security, and lower gas and energy prices here in the United States. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, the Keystone pipeline would transport some 830,000 barrels of oil per day from Alberta, Canada, to U.S. refineries in the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions. Construction of the project would directly create 20,000 jobs and indirectly create tens of thousands of jobs. Pipelines remain the safest and most environmentally sound way to transport oil supplies. Last Congress, Upton worked closely with Michigan Congressman John Dingell, the former Democratic Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, to craft and shepherd through the bipartisan Pipeline Infrastructure and Community Protection Act (H.R. 2937), which ensures vital updates and improvements are made in U.S. pipeline safety. A final agreement on pipeline safety legislation was signed into law by the President at the beginning of 2012.
04.10.2013	The auto industry supports more jobs than any other manufacturing industry in the United States and its recovery has been one of the brighter spots in the economy since the recent recession. Appearing today before the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade, Three Rivers employer and Tier 1 automotive parts supplier American Axle & Manufacturing spoke on a number of issues relating to the current state of U.S. automobile manufacturing and the industry’s outlook. The subcommittee hearing is the third in a series examining the domestic manufacturing industry. “The auto industry is central to manufacturing here in the United States,” said Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph). “Auto manufacturing and its downstream impact employ more than 20 percent of Michiganders. In Southwest Michigan, close to one-third of manufacturing is auto related. Companies like American Axle and its workers have played a prominent role in Michigan’s comeback, recently announcing they are investing more than $100 million in their Three Rivers plant and are adding 500 jobs. At this critical time it is important that we give the auto industry the support it needs.” William A. Smith, Executive Director of Government Affairs and Community Relations for American Axle, provided expert testimony at today’s hearing that addressed issues including corporate tax reform, U.S. energy policy, and workforce training. “Manufacturers are ready to power the economy,” said Smith in his prepared testimony. “With the right policies in place, we will transform a difficult and sluggish recovery into an economic resurgence. After all, manufacturing has the highest multiplier effect of any other sector of our economy. Investments in manufacturing multiply across the economy, creating jobs and growth in other sectors. Simply put, manufacturing makes America strong.” American Axle is currently in the midst of a $100 million investment in new tooling and equipment at its Three Rivers facility, which is resulting in the launch of an industry-leading disconnecting all-wheel drive system. This new, high technology system will provide enhanced fuel economy and safety over existing driveline systems in the industry. The investment requires hiring an additional 500 workers at the plant, bringing American Axle’s total U.S. employment to nearly 3,500. Auto manufacturing is an important direct and indirect contributor to the U.S. economy, creating jobs, attracting foreign investment, increasing trade, and spurring innovation. The motor vehicle and parts manufacturing industry directly employed 789,000 people as of January 2013, but supports more jobs than any other manufacturing industry, with a multiplier effect that generates employment for 8 million Americans across all 50 States. In 47 States, the industry employs more than 10,000 workers, and more than 100,000 workers in 20 States. Michigan holds the largest number of auto-related jobs, supporting more than 1.18 million workers.
04.09.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today formally announced the addition of Lynn Turner to his Kalamazoo district office staff as well as the appointment Clay McCausland as his new District Director. “I am pleased to announce these changes to our constituent service team,” said Upton, who operates full-time constituent service offices in both St. Joseph/Benton Harbor and Kalamazoo. “Two of my most important responsibilities as a Member of Congress are to directly assist folks from Southwest Michigan in dealing with the federal government and to make sure that their voices are heard. Our outstanding constituent service team is integral to both and will be well served under Clay McCausland as my District Director. I am also pleased to announce the addition of Lynn Turner to our Kalamazoo operation. Lynn brings with her decades of community engagement, making her a tremendous resource for local families and businesses.” Clay McCausland – District Director McCausland, who has served as Upton’s District Representative in the St. Joseph-Benton Harbor district office since the beginning of 2011, has been named District Director. In his expanded role, McCausland will oversee constituent service operations throughout the Sixth Congressional District, encompassing both the Kalamazoo and Twin Cities offices. McCausland is a graduate of George Washington University in Washington, DC. During college he served as an intern in Upton’s Washington Office, as well as a part-time Deputy Sheriff for Berrien County Sheriff’s Department. Following college, McCausland served in several federal law enforcement roles, including as an Intelligence Analyst and Special Agent. McCausland is proud to again call Michigan home, after living and working in Washington, DC, New Jersey, and California. Lynn Turner – Community and Media Liaison Turner, of Kalamazoo, will primarily work out of Upton’s constituent service office in downtown Kalamazoo. For the past three years, Turner has worked as a freelance reporter, editor, and researcher for several organizations, including Kalamazoo College and The Christian Science Monitor newspaper. Following a 19-year career with the Kalamazoo Gazette, Turner continued her work there covering courts and features for the newspaper. During her tenure, she shared several awards from the Michigan Press Association in areas including coverage of breaking news. Turner is a graduate of Michigan State University. Upton represents Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District, which consists of all of Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, and Van Buren counties as well as most of Allegan County. Upton’s constituent service offices provide vital assistance and resources to all southwest Michigan residents and businesses in dealing with the federal government. Whether expediting a late Social Security benefit or presenting one of our nation’s brave veterans with overdue service medals, Upton’s district offices can help cut through the bureaucratic red tape.
04.09.2013	(Click here to watch Upton's full opening remarks) Speaking at this afternoon’s Health Subcommittee hearing, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) praised the success of the federal government’s animal drug review programs and stated his commitment to see these programs renewed by this summer. Similar to Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) programs for human drugs and medical devices, under these programs the FDA collects funds to help expedite the new animal drug and generic drug approval processes. U.S. employers like Zoetis and MPI Research, which employ hundreds of people in Southwest Michigan, benefit from a reduced FDA application backlog, enabling them to get products to market faster, better compete with companies overseas, and create jobs here at home. Last renewed in 2008, the Animal Drug User Fee Act (ADUFA) and the Animal Generic Drug User Fee Act (AGDUFA) are currently set to expire on September 30, 2013, without congressional action. “Together, these programs have yielded many benefits for the American people. They’ve ensured that veterinarians, livestock producers, poultry producers, and pet owners have access to new and affordable animal drugs to keep their animals healthy,” said Upton in his opening remarks. “They’ve assisted animal drug producers by fostering a stable and predictable FDA review process. And finally, they’ve helped American consumers by keeping that food supply safe. For companies like Zoetis, which employs over 700 people in my district, these programs are essential for them to keep producing top-of-the line drugs for pets and livestock.” Last Congress, Upton led the way in the House for the successful, bipartisan reauthorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) and the Medical Device User Fee Act (MDUFA), which streamlined the federal approval process for new prescription drugs and medical devices. These commonsense reforms enable Michigan manufacturers like Perrigo, Pfizer, and Stryker to better compete, innovate, and create jobs. The reauthorizations also significantly improve patient care by ensuring that lifesaving American-made products are brought to market in a safe and timely matter.
04.05.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) said today he appreciated the extra time being given to the W.K. Kellogg Airport in Battle Creek to keep open its air traffic control tower. The decision by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to delay the closures of all 149 federal contract air traffic control towers until June 15, however, does not answer questions he asked of its administrator in a March 27 letter. “We still don’t know the rationale used in determining why the air traffic control tower at the W.K. Kellogg Airport (BTL) in Battle Creek, Michigan, is being closed when it is used by the country’s third-largest aviation college, a National Guard base, and an aviation company that employs more than 500 workers,” Upton said Friday. There has been no response to Upton’s letter as of Friday afternoon. Western Michigan University’s College of Aviation, the Battle Creek Air National Guard 110th Airlift Wing, and Duncan Aviation, the largest privately owned aircraft remanufacturer in North America, are based at or near the airport. U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said the additional time would be used to “make sure communities and pilots understand the changes at their local airports.” The Battle Creek tower was slated to be closed as part of a phased, four-week process. Instead, LaHood said all 149 towers are to close June 15. Battle Creek city officials have indicated they will pick up the tab to keep air traffic controllers on the job through a separate program. “The FAA has to understand that this is a hardship not just on the communities where these closures are happening, but throughout the region and beyond,” Upton said. “The FAA was given the authority and flexibility to determine where to spend and where to cut. I still want to know what went into the decision that closes an airport with direct ties to education, business and national security.” The full text of Upton’s letter to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta follows: March 27, 2013 The Honorable Michael Huerta Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20591 Dear Administrator Huerta: I am writing today regarding the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) announced closure of the air traffic control tower at the W.K. Kellogg Airport (BTL) in Battle Creek, Michigan. I am deeply disappointed by this decision and equally concerned by the adverse impact it will have on both regional and national interests. As you are aware, the W.K. Kellogg Airport is a large non-commercial, general aviation facility and the location of the Battle Creek Air National Guard 110th Airlift Wing. Ensuring normal operation of the Battle Creek airport is essential to the mission of the Air National Guard and U.S. military operations. The W.K. Kellogg Airport is also home to both Western Michigan University’s (WMU) College of Aviation and local employer Duncan Aviation. From its state-of-the-art facilities in Battle Creek, WMU operates one of the most prestigious flight programs in the nation. As the third-largest aviation school in the country, WMU fulfills a critical need to train the next generation of American pilots. Duncan is the largest privately owned aircraft remanufacturing plant in North America, employing more than 500 workers at its Battle Creek facility. The company is also host to many international customers who regularly depend on being able to fly into the airport. Any actions that jeopardize the safety and efficiency of the W.K. Kellogg Airport would have a detrimental economic impact in our region and beyond. According to data provided by the FAA’s online Air Traffic Activity Data System (ATADS), the W.K. Kellogg Airport totaled 81,337 operations during 2012. Given the strong economic, educational, and national security interests invested in the Battle Creek operation as well as its active use, the methodology used by the FAA in determining its closures demands greater explanation. The case of Battle Creek also begs a larger question of how the sequester cuts are being implemented at the FAA. On March 26, 2013, the President signed into law a continuing budget resolution (H.R. 933) to fund the federal government for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2013. As you well know, that six-month appropriation grants federal agencies, including the FAA, the authority and flexibility to reprioritize funding and avoid closing air traffic control towers. As a matter of great importance to the people and businesses of Southwest Michigan, I would appreciate your consideration of these issues and look forward to your timely response. Should you have any questions or require additional information from my office, please do not hesitate to contact my Washington, DC office for assistance: (202) 225-3761. Sincerely, Fred Upton Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Ray LaHood, Secretary of Transportation
03.28.2013	Southwest Michigan manufacturers are recognized leaders in innovation and jobs, U.S. Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), told members of the Berrien County Manufacturers Council Wednesday morning during their 2013 annual meeting. Upton was the keynote speaker. In his remarks, Upton gave an overview of recent legislative action in Washington and detailed ongoing efforts in the House to support local manufacturing growth and jobs. “From auto parts to medical devices, Southwest Michigan manufacturers lead in innovation and the creation of good-paying jobs,” said Upton. “The continued strength of our manufacturing sector is essential to future job creation and economic growth here in Michigan. That means removing the unnecessary regulatory burdens that stand in the way of our employers as well as supporting commonsense policies that keep taxes and energy costs down.” Council members presented Upton with the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) “Award for Legislative Excellence” for his support of a pro-growth, pro-manufacturing policy agenda in the 112th Congress. In part, the award recognizes Upton’s work to promote the production of North American energy; repeal the overreaching healthcare law; support free trade; provide necessary tax relief; and reduce the costly regulatory burden imposed on the nation’s manufacturers. “Manufacturing in Southwest Michigan is somewhat of a staple for our region and more specifically Berrien County,” said Joe Sobieralski, Executive Director of the Southwestern Michigan Economic Growth Alliance/Berrien County Manufacturers Council. “It’s wonderful that we have representatives at both the state and federal levels that understand the importance of manufacturing and have a track record or supporting manufacturing.” The Berrien County Manufacturers Council is a countywide network of manufacturing leaders. The Council offers both formal and informal meetings for members to share ideas and develop common strategies for local manufacturing. “Manufacturers today compete in a global marketplace,” said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. “It is critical that Washington creates policies to keep us competitive and maintain our mantle of economic leadership. Congressman Upton understands this and has consistently supported the pro-manufacturing agenda through his votes in Congress.” NAM bestows its award at the end of each Congress to Members of the House of Representatives and Senate whose voting records are 70 percent and above in support of NAM’s positions on Key Manufacturing Votes. Upton received a score of 97 percent for his legislative record last Congress (2011-2012) and was presented the physical award at yesterday morning’s Council breakfast. A complete list of Key Votes in the 112th Congress and the voting records of Members may be found on NAM’s website at www.nam.org/votingrecord. Consisting of 11,000 manufacturing companies, the National Association of Manufacturers is the largest manufacturing association in the United States, representing manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states.
03.28.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today sent a letter to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) concerning the announced closure of the air traffic control tower at the W.K. Kellogg Airport in Battle Creek. The general aviation airport is home to many, including the Battle Creek Air National Guard 110th Airlift Wing, Western Michigan University’s (WMU) College of Aviation, and major local employer Duncan Aviation. In his letter, Upton highlights the economic importance and strategic significance of the airport to Southwest Michigan and beyond. Upton has spoken with WMU President John Dunn and other local leaders concerning the detrimental impact the closure will have on the economy and the training the next generation of American pilots. Given the wide importance of the Battle Creek facility, Upton asks the FAA to explain how the decision to close the air traffic control tower was made. Upton also raises issue with the fact that the recently passed continuing budget resolution (H.R. 933) for Fiscal Year 2013 grants agencies, including the FAA, flexibility to reprogram and reprioritize funding under the March 1 budget sequester. The full text of Upton’s letter to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta follows: March 27, 2013 The Honorable Michael Huerta Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20591 Dear Administrator Huerta: I am writing today regarding the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) announced closure of the air traffic control tower at the W.K. Kellogg Airport (BTL) in Battle Creek, Michigan. I am deeply disappointed by this decision and equally concerned by the adverse impact it will have on both regional and national interests. As you are aware, the W.K. Kellogg Airport is a large non-commercial, general aviation facility and the location of the Battle Creek Air National Guard 110th Airlift Wing. Ensuring normal operation of the Battle Creek airport is essential to the mission of the Air National Guard and U.S. military operations. The W.K. Kellogg Airport is also home to both Western Michigan University’s (WMU) College of Aviation and local employer Duncan Aviation. From its state-of-the-art facilities in Battle Creek, WMU operates one of the most prestigious flight programs in the nation. As the third-largest aviation school in the country, WMU fulfills a critical need to train the next generation of American pilots. Duncan is the largest privately owned aircraft remanufacturing plant in North America, employing more than 500 workers at its Battle Creek facility. The company is also host to many international customers who regularly depend on being able to fly into the airport. Any actions that jeopardize the safety and efficiency of the W.K. Kellogg Airport would have a detrimental economic impact in our region and beyond. According to data provided by the FAA’s online Air Traffic Activity Data System (ATADS), the W.K. Kellogg Airport totaled 81,337 operations during 2012. Given the strong economic, educational, and national security interests invested in the Battle Creek operation as well as its active use, the methodology used by the FAA in determining its closures demands greater explanation. The case of Battle Creek also begs a larger question of how the sequester cuts are being implemented at the FAA. On March 26, 2013, the President signed into law a continuing budget resolution (H.R. 933) to fund the federal government for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2013. As you well know, that six-month appropriation grants federal agencies, including the FAA, the authority and flexibility to reprioritize funding and avoid closing air traffic control towers. As a matter of great importance to the people and businesses of Southwest Michigan, I would appreciate your consideration of these issues and look forward to your timely response. Should you have any questions or require additional information from my office, please do not hesitate to contact my Washington, DC office for assistance: (202) 225-3761. Sincerely, Fred Upton Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Ray LaHood, Secretary of Transportation
03.25.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today announced that Ryan Mavity of St. Joseph has been accepted to attend the United States Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA) at Kings Point, New York. Upton, who recommended Mr. Mavity for selection to the prestigious service academy, personally congratulated him on his appointment. Ryan is currently a senior at Lakeshore High School. “It is truly an honor to announce Ryan’s appointment to Kings Point,” said Upton. “Ryan has worked hard and undergone a rigorous selection process to earn a formal appointment to this prestigious academy. As a future midshipman, Ryan will represent the very best that Southwest Michigan has to offer. We are so proud of his many accomplishments and desire to serve his country. I encourage local students who aspire to follow in Ryan’s footsteps to contact my office to open a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our country.” Each year, Upton nominates students from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in their respective schools and have gone through a rigorous selection process. The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board, which is comprised of community leaders. Upon approval by the board, Ryan’s name was then passed on to Upton, who then officially nominated the Lakeshore High School senior to USMMA. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office for further information: (269) 982-1986.
03.22.2013	Representatives from the Michigan Farm Bureau travelled to our nation’s capital to meet with Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) and recognize him with the “Friend of Farm Bureau” award for his “outstanding service during the 112th Congress.” This is the seventh consecutive time that Michigan Farm Bureau has recognized Upton for his strong commitment to agricultural issues impacting local farmers. “It is a great honor to be recognized as a friend of the Michigan Farm Bureau,” said Upton. “Agriculture is such an important part of our economy and way of life in Southwest Michigan. These hardworking men and women are to be commended for all they do to keep a reliable supply of fresh, local food on our plates. I will continue to work to ensure that our area farmers have the support they deserve at home and in Washington.” Upton has been a longtime advocate of Michigan’s farmers. Last spring, Upton toured local farms and met with growers from across the district who faced one of the worst crop losses in decades. Upton joined other members of Michigan’s congressional delegation in successfully urging the Secretary of Agriculture to issue a disaster declaration, which extended to farmers in Allegan, Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, and Van Buren counties. “We are pleased to recognize Congressman Upton with our Friend of Farm Bureau Award and are grateful for his service,” said Michigan Farm Bureau President Wayne H. Wood. “The congressman and his staff are true friends of southwestern Michigan agriculture, spending time with our farmers in the countryside, attending county Farm Bureau events and listening to our concerns. “The working relationship Farm Bureau enjoys with Congressman Upton is second to none and we appreciate his efforts on behalf of Michigan agriculture. He clearly understands the issues we deal with and we always appreciate his open door.” As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Upton helped usher a number of bills through committee to support Michigan farmers, including legislation to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from regulating “farm dust” as well as a measure to ensure farmers have access to the certain agricultural fumigants for critical uses. Upton also supported the successful passage of free trade agreements with Columbia, Panama, and South Korea, which are expected to increase Michigan’s agriculture exports by nearly $45 million per year and provide hundreds of agriculture-related jobs in the state. The “Friend of Farm Bureau” award is given at the end of each Congress to Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate who were nominated by their respective state Farm Bureaus and approved by the American Farm Bureau Federation (AFBF) Board of Directors.
03.21.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) issued the following statement upon today’s House passage of legislation that keeps the federal government funded through the remainder of the fiscal year, averting a government shutdown next week. “We have a responsibility to the American people to cut our federal deficit and enact a balanced budget,” said Upton. “Today’s bipartisan agreement ensures essential government services remain operational and builds upon the efforts of the House to reduce spending and replace the sequester with targeted savings. With the government funded through the remainder of the fiscal year, we can focus our full attention on our top priority: supporting the creation of jobs and enacting policies that make our economy stronger and more competitive.” Government operations for Fiscal Year 2013 were funded under a six-month continuing resolution that was enacted on September 28, 2012, and expires on March 28, 2013. Today’s continuing resolution (H.R. 933) maintains the $85 billion in sequestration cuts that went into effect on March 1 while granting agencies including the Department of Defense some flexibility to better deal with the sequester. The bipartisan measure passed the House and Senate this week by nearly three-to-one margins – 318 to 109 and 73 to 26, respectively – and now heads to the President’s desk.
03.19.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) joined Congressmen Dave Camp (R-Midland), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and Bill Huizenga (R-Zeeland) in calling on the U.S. Senate to prevent the Obama administration from waiving longstanding work requirements for federal welfare recipients. Enacted in 1996 as part of welfare reform under the Clinton administration, federal law has required states to impose a work requirement for those receiving welfare benefits. Specifically, 50 percent of all families and 90 percent of two-parent families that receive Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) benefits must work or be engaged in a work-related activity, such as job training. On July 12, 2012, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) issued “guidance” suggesting that it would allow states to opt out of the TANF program’s work requirement for the first time since 1996. Last week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation authored by Chairman Camp that prohibits HHS from implementing its waiver plan and prevents the administration from waiving federal work requirements. The legislation also reauthorizes the TANF program through year’s end. The Preserving Work Requirements for Welfare Programs Act of 2013 (H.R. 890) passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 246 to 181 (228 Republicans and 18 Democrats supported the measure; 3 Republicans and 178 Democrats opposed it) and now awaits consideration before the Senate Finance Committee. In September 2012, the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) confirmed that the Obama administration circumvented Congress to waive the welfare work requirements. “Today’s vote shows that there is clear, bipartisan opposition in Congress to the Obama Administration’s efforts to dismantle the welfare work requirements,” said Camp. “These work requirements, along with the other landmark 1996 welfare reforms, have been essential to increasing work and earnings and decreasing welfare dependence and poverty among low-income Americans. I urge my Senate colleagues to pass this legislation and send it to the President’s desk for his signature.” “Waiving these essential bipartisan work requirements is a step backwards in the effort to reduce welfare dependence among low-income Americans,” said Huizenga. “We cannot afford to revert back to a welfare system that encourages dependency instead of helping low income Michiganders become self-sufficient. Now, more than ever, the focus must be on getting people off the aid roll and back on the payroll, and that is why I urge the Senate to quickly take up this legislation, pass it, and send it to President Obama for his signature.” “We should be doing everything in our ability to help our nation’s most vulnerable find gainful employment and get back on their feet. Folks in Michigan would rather be supporting their families and paying taxes than depending on Washington,” said Upton. “Waiving the bipartisan work requirements as we are trying to get our nation back to work would seriously undermine the progress we have made to lift struggling families out of poverty. We also owe it to the American people to ensure their hard-earned tax dollars are wisely spent.”
03.15.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, welcomed Diane Kniowski, President and General Manager of WOOD-TV, WOTV, and WXSP, as an expert witness at yesterday’s Communications and Technology Subcommittee hearing. Entitled “Oversight of FirstNet and Emergency Communications,” the hearing focused on how public safety officials and the general public communicate in times of emergency. “Local broadcasters do a tremendous job of keeping our communities in southwest Michigan informed with their regular news coverage and when disaster strikes,” said Upton. “While we pray for the best, it is crucial that we are prepared for the worst. The participation of local broadcasters is critical to the success of national Emergency Alert System as well as in ensuring the lines of communication remain open in times of emergency.” Kniowski appeared as a representative of the broadcast industry on the hearing’s second panel, which focused on tools for communicating with the public, such as 9-1-1 service and the broadcast and wireless emergency alert systems. In her prepared testimony, Kniowski noted, “Broadcasters’ commitment to public service is never more apparent than during times of crises. During an emergency, particularly one that arises with little notice, no other industry can match the ability of broadcasting to deliver timely warnings as well as on-going, comprehensive information as the situation unfolds to millions of people simultaneously.” What is now the Emergency Alert System (EAS) began as the 1950s CONELRAD System, designed to use the nation’s broadcast infrastructure to deliver civil defense information. The Emergency Broadcast System, which replaced CONELRAD in 1963, expanded beyond civil defense information to provide the public information about storms and other emergencies. As the scope of the alerts expanded, so did the number of participating outlets. Currently, EAS incorporates participation by broadcast radio, broadcast television, cable systems, satellite television providers, and satellite radio providers. The EAS has a national plan—coordinated by the Federal Communications Commission, the Federal Emergency Management System, and the National Weather Service—in addition to plans that are maintained by individual states. Watch Kniowski’s live testimony here Read Kniowski’s full testimony as prepared for delivery here.
03.15.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) voted today for legislation to streamline the current maze of federal job-training programs in order to provide American workers with a more effective network of job training services. Even as the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that some 3.6 million job openings remain unfilled, approximately 12 million Americans are currently unemployed and trying to find work. And while taxpayers spend roughly $18 billion each year on a myriad of federal job-training programs, many workers are not acquiring the critical skills needed to fill in-demand jobs. The Supporting Knowledge and Investing in Lifelong Skills (SKILLS) Act (H.R. 803), in part, eliminates and streamlines 35 ineffective and duplicative federal programs and creates a flexible Workforce Investment Fund to serve as a single source of support for workers, employers, and job seekers. H.R. 803 passed the House this afternoon by a bipartisan vote of 215 to 202 and now awaits consideration in the Senate. “Our federal workforce training system is a tangled, bureaucratic mess that is failing to give Michigan job seekers the skills they need to find gainful employment,” said Upton. “While we are seeing many promising signs of an economic turnaround here in Southwest Michigan, statewide unemployment and underemployment remain far too high. This legislation genuinely invests in our workforce by promoting a stronger, employer-driven training system.” Testifying on February 26, 2013, before the House Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Training, Todd Gustafson – Executive Director of Michigan Works! for Berrien, Cass, and Van Buren counties – spoke favorably of the reforms sought by the SKILLS Act. “Eliminating and streamlining the existing 35 federally funded workforce programs is vital to upgrading the nation’s workforce system. The system has to change,” said Gustafson in his prepared testimony. “I support the concept of creating an overarching Workforce Investment Fund at the federal level. If done equitably with the interests and needs of the states and the locals included in the design it can work. And although the Michigan model works, continuous improvement via the elimination and streamlining of funding streams at the federal level will further benefit Michigan’s workforce system.” The SKILLS Act reforms have been embraced by a number of our nation’s governors, who benefit from the greater administrative flexibility and reduced paperwork requirements. “In today’s global economy, business development, talent development, infrastructure and adult education must work together on a region-wide basis, to leverage scarce resources and drive economic prosperity,” wrote Michigan Governor Rick Snyder in a March 5th letter to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “By removing bureaucratic barriers and limiting prescriptive funding provisions, the SKILLS Act will provide states with the flexibility to address unique workforce development challenges with solutions that will develop the talent our new economy demands.” In addition to consolidating federal job-training programs, the SKILLS Act requires states to reserve a certain percentage of funds to specifically target individuals with unique barriers to finding employment, such as at-risk youth and low-income workers. The legislation also eliminates 19 federal mandates regarding the makeup of local Workforce Investment Boards and ensures that two-thirds of state and local board members are employers, the end-user of the job-training system.
03.15.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) joined the United States Army Corps of Engineers this afternoon in announcing emergency funding to dredge the St. Joseph harbor. The harbor, which is essential to jobs and economic activity in Southwest Michigan, has become inaccessible to commercial traffic on account of severe sand build up, or shoaling. Upton has been in close contact with local dock owners and Berrien County officials concerning the issue, and recently sat down with the Army Corps in his Washington, DC office to work toward a solution. “Our Great Lakes harbors are gateways of economic opportunity, providing good-paying jobs as well as vital resources for economic activity in our region and beyond,” said Upton. “Whether for commercial or recreational traffic, it is critical that our local harbors are well maintained and remain open for business. The Army Corps recognizes this and their Detroit and Grand Haven offices been tremendous partners for all involved here at the local level. The regular commercial disruptions caused by seasonal shoaling underscore the importance of ensuring that that the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund is properly used for its intended purposes: maintaining our nation’s harbors. The continued misallocation of Trust Fund dollars have left our nation’s ports and waterways seriously underfunded.” Keeping the St. Joseph harbor open to commercial traffic has long been a top priority for Upton, as our Great Lakes harbors are essential to economic growth, infrastructure development, and countless local jobs. From emergency dredging to maintaining standard operations, Upton has fought to keep these vital resources open. "Lafarge North America is appreciative of Congressman Upton's leadership in securing the funding for the harbor dredging project,” stated Rick Moore, Senior Terminal Manager for the Lafarge St. Joseph cement terminal. “Having the dredging project completed prior to the 2013 Great Lakes shipping season is critical to ensuring a ready supply of cement for roads and bridges, area homebuilders, and construction projects throughout Southwest Michigan and Northern Indiana." Upton is also a strong supporter of the bipartisan Realize America’s Maritime Promise (RAMP) Act (H.R. 335), which would ensure that all federal revenues collected for harbor maintenance through the Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) are fully used and not left unspent in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF). Revenue in the HMTF has increased over the past decade, with a current surplus of more than $7 billion. Because the HMTF is not a separate account within the federal budget, many of the HMT revenues paid by users have been left unspent as a budgetary gimmick to offset other federal spending.
03.14.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today announced that Benjamin Shoichi Miota of Coloma has been accepted to attend the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado. Upton, who recommended Mr. Miota for selection to the prestigious service academy, personally congratulated him on his appointment. Benjamin is currently a senior at Grace Christian School in Watervliet. “It brings me great pleasure to announce Ben’s appointment to U.S. Air Force Academy,” said Upton. “Ben has been a standout student at Grace Christian School and represents the very best Michigan has to offer. This appointment comes through much hard work and dedication, setting Ben on the path of some of our nation’s greatest military leaders. Our entire community is so proud of him and his many accomplishments. I encourage local students who aspire to follow in Ben’s footsteps to contact my office to open a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our country.” Each year, Upton nominates students from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in their respective schools and have gone through a rigorous selection process. The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board, which is comprised of community leaders. Upon approval by the board, Benjamin’s name was then passed on to Upton, who then officially nominated the Grace Christian School senior to the United States Air Force Academy. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office for further information: (269) 982-1986.
03.14.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) gave the following tribute in recognition of Pat Moody’s 40 years on WSJM Radio. Upton made his tribute in the Congressional Record on March 14, 2013. The full text of Upton’s remarks follows below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a legend in Michigan broadcasting, Pat Moody, on forty remarkable years of service to the greater Michiana area. A native of Grand Rapids, Michigan, Pat came to Berrien County in 1973 as news director of WSJM Radio. We didn’t let him get away. Now four decades later, Pat is the area’s most well-recognized on-air personality and host of the popular “Moody in the Morning” radio show. Thousands of households and commuters tune in every morning as Pat informs, enlightens, and entertains. Like that first cup of coffee or newspaper over breakfast, Pat has become a morning staple for folks in Michigan’s Great Southwest. While perhaps best known as the area’s favorite radio personality, Pat is also widely recognized as a passionate and engaged member of his community and an outspoken champion of all things Michigan. Pat has served as Executive Vice President of the Cornerstone Chamber of Commerce for nearly two decades; authors a weekly business column, “Moody on the Market;” and has participated in a diverse array of civic organizations and boards, including Lake Michigan College, the Lakeland Regional Health Foundation, Michiana public broadcasting, and the Berrien Community Foundation, just to name a few. Pat’s hard work and selfless commitment to make Southwest Michigan a better place to live, work, and play has rightfully earned him the respect and admiration of the entire region. It is truly an honor to recognize Pat Moody on reaching this tremendous milestone; to have worked alongside him on so many issues and to call him friend for so many years. Well done and congratulations! He is a local treasure, and we look forward to many, many more years of waking up to his welcoming voice. But, he’s more than just a voice … he’s a friend. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
03.13.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today announced that William Fry of Sturgis has been accepted to attend the United States Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA) at Kings Point, New York. Upton, who recommended Mr. Fry for selection to the prestigious service academy, personally congratulated him on his appointment. William is currently a senior at Sturgis High School. “It is a pleasure to announce Will’s appointment to Merchant Marine Academy,” said Upton. “Will is a remarkable young man who has excelled at Sturgis High School in the classroom and beyond. He has successfully undergone a rigorous selection process, athletically and academically, and our entire community should be proud of his achievements. By attending Kings Point, Will follows the path of past midshipmen who have honorably served and led our nation. This exemplary young man represents the very best that Michigan has to offer. I encourage local students who aspire to follow in Will’s footsteps to contact my office to open a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our country.” Each year, Upton nominates students from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in their respective schools and have gone through a rigorous selection process. The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board, which is comprised of community leaders. Upon approval by the board, William’s name was then passed on to Upton, who then officially nominated the Sturgis High School senior to USMMA. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office for further information: (269) 982-1986.
03.13.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) voted today to prevent the Obama administration from waiving longstanding work requirements for recipients of federal welfare benefits. Enacted in 1996 as part of welfare reform under the Clinton administration, federal law has since required states to impose a work requirement for welfare recipients. Specifically, 50 percent of all families and 90 percent of two-parent families that receive Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) benefits must work or be engaged in a work-related activity, such as job training. On July 12, 2012, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) issued “guidance” suggesting that it would allow states to opt out of the TANF program’s work requirement for the first time since 1996. Today’s legislation, the Preserving Work Requirements for Welfare Programs Act of 2013 (H.R. 890), would directly prohibit HHS from implementing its waiver plan and prevent the administration from waiving federal work requirements. The legislation also reauthorizes the TANF program through year’s end. H.R. 890 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 246 to 181 and will head to the Senate for further consideration. “We should be doing everything in our ability to help our nation’s most vulnerable find gainful employment and get back on their feet. Folks in Michigan would rather be supporting their families and paying taxes than depending on Washington,” said Upton, who supported the enactment of welfare reform under the Clinton administration. “Waiving the bipartisan work requirements as we are trying to get our nation back to work would seriously undermine the progress we have made to lift struggling families out of poverty. We also owe it to the American people to ensure their hard-earned tax dollars are wisely spent.” In September 2012, the non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) confirmed that the Obama administration circumvented Congress to waive the welfare work requirements. Later that month, Upton joined fellow House members in passing a bipartisan measure (H.J.Res.118) disapproving of the administration’s waiver rule. The Senate did not act on this or related legislation before the end of the 112th Congress. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that enacting H.R. 890 would reduce direct federal spending by $61 million over the next decade.
03.08.2013	As most Americans sleep this Sunday night, daylight saving time (DST) will go into effect, bringing with it evening sunshine that will last longer and increased savings for millions of American families on their energy bills. All of this comes from an extension of the program co-authored by Representatives Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee. “As the Beatles promised, here comes the sun. Although we are a bit away from warmer weather, backyard barbeques, and weekends at the lakeshore, our days will be getting a bit sunnier this weekend as we spring ahead for daylight saving time,” said Upton. “An annual rite of spring, daylight saving time is also a matter of energy conservation. By having a little more natural daylight at our disposal, we can help keep daily energy costs down for families and businesses. Much can be done to help keep prices low and reduce our dependence on overseas energy suppliers, and every bit of savings can help.” “This has been a winter full of snowstorms and long, dreary days. Daylight Saving Time coming earlier helps clear away the winter blues a little earlier, and happens to save some energy and money along the way,” said Rep. Markey. “Government analysis has proven that extra sunshine provides more than just smiles. Daylight Saving Time saves consumers money and also curbs the nation’s energy consumption, which means lower energy bills, less pollution, and more reasons to enjoy the outdoors.” As part of the 2005 Energy Bill, Reps. Upton and Markey amended the Uniform Time Act of 1996 to increase the portion of the year that is subject to DST, providing longer hours of daylight and helping consumers cut back on peak-hour electricity usage. The Upton-Markey Amendment extended the duration of DST in the spring by changing its start date from the first Sunday in April to the second Sunday in March, and in the fall by changing its end date from the last Sunday in October to the first Sunday in November. The amendment required that the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) prepare a report evaluating the impact of the extended DST program. The key findings of the DOE report, issued in October 2008, included: The total electricity savings of Extended Daylight Saving Time were about 1.3 Tera Watt-hour (TWh). This corresponds to a reduction in total use per individual of 0.5 percent per each day of Extended Daylight Saving Time. These savings translate to $498 million in electricity savings and reduced oil usage of 2.9 million barrels of oil. During Extended Daylight Saving Time, electricity savings generally occurred over a three- to five-hour period in the evening with small increases in usage during the early-morning hours.
03.04.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) spoke on the Floor of the House of Representatives today in strong support of bipartisan legislation to continue strengthening the nation’s preparedness infrastructure and support the development of medical countermeasures to better respond to potential chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear attacks. The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013 (H.R. 307) was initially passed by the House on January 22, 2013. A near identical version of the bill passed the Senate last Wednesday, February 27, by unanimous consent. The amended Senate bill passed the House this evening by a bipartisan vote of 370 to 28 and will next head to the President to be signed into law. Video and text of Upton’s full Floor remarks follow: (Click Here to View Video of Fred's Remarks) Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and certainly tonight I stand in support of this legislation, H.R. 307, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013. This legislation is going to help our nation’s families, local communities, first responders, and innovators as we prepare for, and respond to, public health emergencies, including those caused by terrorist attacks. As the nation recovers from a severe flu season, the need to pass this legislation is ever more apparent. This bill is going to help families by requiring that the special needs of our nation’s children are taken into account as medical countermeasures move through the FDA process and are purchased for the Strategic National Stockpile. The bill also would require the Department of Health and Human Services to improve public health emergency preparedness, response, outreach, and communications with respect to children. H.R. 307 also would aid local communities and those on the front lines in disaster response, providing assistance to local law enforcement, emergency management, and public health officials in planning, training, and preparing for emergencies, so that if disaster strikes, their communities are ready. Last month, I had the opportunity to address the American Burn Association here in Washington. The bill’s Hospital Preparedness Program is critical to help them as it helps hospitals prepare for disasters that would result in a surge in the need for medical care. In addition, this legislation is going to help innovators as they develop medical countermeasures that may be necessary in the event of a biological, nuclear, radiological, or chemical attack. The bill contains provisions to improve the predictability, consistency and transparency of the FDA process. These improvements will assist innovators in getting their medical countermeasures across the finish line. It is also important to note that H.R. 307 would reauthorize programs for five years at the Fiscal Year 2012 appropriated level. This bill would not create new programs, and according to CBO as Mr. Pitts said, would not increase spending. The House bill passed back in January, and the Senate passed a nearly identical version of the bill last week by unanimous consent. Upon House approval today, this critical legislation will in fact head to the President to be signed into law, ensuring that our nation is preparing for the unthinkable. I want to thank all of the members who have worked on this issue, not only this year but last year. Certainly Mr. Rogers of Michigan, Chairman Pitts, Mr. Waxman, Mr. Pallone, and Mrs. Eshoo. I also want to thank Senators Harkin, Alexander, Enzi and Burr for their leadership on this issue as we got together and got this bill ready tonight. At this point, I would yield back and urge my colleagues to support the bill. I yield back the balance of my time.
02.27.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) was honored to attend a ceremony in the U.S. Capitol this morning for the unveiling of a statue of civil rights icon Rosa Parks. President Obama, congressional leaders, and more than 50 of Mrs. Parks’ relatives came together for the historic ceremony in National Statuary Hall inside the U.S. Capitol. The nine-foot bronze statue of the Presidential Media of Freedom recipient is now a part of the National Statuary Hall Collection, which includes 100 statues of historic figures from all 50 states. Upton is the cosponsor of bipartisan legislation that directed the Joint Committee on the Library to obtain a statue of the late civil rights hero for placement in the U.S. Capitol. “In a single courageous act, Rosa Parks changed the course of our nation’s history in an extraordinary way,” said Upton, who had the great honor of meeting Mrs. Parks in 1999 when she received the Congressional Gold Medal, the nation’s highest civilian honor. “As the Mother of the Civil Rights Movement, her statue is a permanent reminder of the great challenges our nation has overcome, giving greater hope to future generations. Rosa Parks is a testament to the significant difference that an individual can make by taking a stand against adversity and injustice. She is a true American legend – her legacy and spirit will forever live on.” In November 2005, Upton was asked by then-Speaker of the House of Representatives J. Dennis Hastert to lead the bipartisan House delegation to Mrs. Parks’ funeral in Detroit. Later, Upton worked closely with Congressman Bobby Rush (D-Chicago) in calling for a commemorative stamp to be issued by the U.S. Postal Service to honor the late Mrs. Parks, waiving the Postal Service policy against honoring individuals before the tenth anniversary of their death. As a member of the non-partisan Faith & Politics Institute, Upton has previously co-chaired the organization’s annual Civil Rights Pilgrimage, commemorating the March to Selma. During the pilgrimage, Upton visited the exact spot in Montgomery, Alabama, where Mrs. Parks refused to give up her seat on a city bus on December 1, 1955.
02.26.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today announced that Adam Taggett of Portage has been accepted to attend the United States Military Academy at West Point. Upton, who recommended Mr. Taggett for selection to the prestigious service academy, personally congratulated him on his appointment. Adam is currently a senior at Portage Central High School. “I am honored to announce Adam’s appointment to West Point,” said Upton. “Adam is a remarkable young man who has excelled at Portage Central in the classroom and beyond. He has successfully undergone a rigorous selection process, athletically and academically, and our entire community should be proud of his achievements. By attending West Point, Adam follows in the footsteps of past cadets who went on to become some of the greatest leaders and public figures in American history. This exemplary young man represents the very best that Michigan has to offer. I encourage local students who aspire to follow in Adam’s footsteps to contact my office to open a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our country.” Each year, Upton nominates students from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in their respective schools and have gone through a rigorous selection process. The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board that is comprised of community leaders. Upon approval by the board, Adam’s name was then passed on to Upton, who then officially nominated the Portage Central High School senior to the United States Military Academy. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office for further information: (269) 982-1986.
02.17.2013	Congressmen Bill Huizenga (R-Zeeland) and Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) voted Friday in favor of a Resolution (H.Res.65) condemning the North Korean government for its February 12, 2013, test of a nuclear device in direct violation of the United Nations Security Council. The non-binding resolution, in part, calls on the Obama administration to work with U.S. allies to exert as much pressure as possible on North Korea through stronger sanctions. The bipartisan resolution passed the House by a nearly unanimous vote of 412 to 2. “North Korea's testing of a nuclear device poses a threat to America's allies in the Pacific Rim and must be addressed,” said Huizenga. “It's clear that this tyrannical regime is more interested in threatening its neighbors than ensuring its people have access to basic necessities such as food and shelter. This vote in the House shows overwhelming bipartisan support for President Obama to take the next step and work with the international community to explore stronger sanctions against these despots.” “The recent provocations by the North Korean government pose a serious threat to global peace and security and must be stopped,” said Upton, who, in 2005, was part of a congressional delegation that traveled to the East Asian country in hopes of discussing nuclear disarmament with its leaders. “While its own people suffer under the most oppressive conditions imaginable, the regime remains uncooperative, blinded by its own nuclear ambitions. The consequences of inaction are grave for the United States and our allies in the region and beyond. “It is imperative that North Korea cease its hostile actions immediately.”
02.15.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) voted today (H.R. 273) to extend the current freeze on federal employee pay through year’s end. The pay adjustment freeze applies to federal employees and officials, including Members of Congress, Members of the President’s Cabinet, and the Vice President. In late December 2012, President Obama issued an Executive Order that provides for an across-the-board 0.5 percent pay increase for all federal civilian employees, regardless of merit, beginning when the current freeze expires on March 27, 2013. The current employee pay adjustment freeze was part of last year’s six-month extension to fund the federal government through early spring 2013. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), H.R. 273 would save taxpayers approximately $11 billion during the next decade. H.R. 273 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 261 to 154 and soon heads to the Senate for consideration. “Southwest Michigan families should not be asked to shoulder the extra cost so the President can give the federal government an across-the-board pay raise,” said Upton. “Of all possible times, the idea of a federal pay hike in the midst of our fiscal crisis is nothing short of reckless. Rather than saddling future generations with greater debt, we should be looking for ways to reduce federal spending in a real and meaningful way.” While the President has missed the statutory deadline to submit his budget for Fiscal Year (FY) 2014, it is expected that it will include an additional 1.0 percent pay adjustment. With passage of the American Taxpayer Relief Act (H.R. 8) in January, Congress continued its pay adjustment freeze at 2009 levels through the remainder of Fiscal Year 2013, which ends on September 30, 2013. H.R. 273 would further extend the freeze on congressional salaries for three months, through the remainder of the 2013 calendar year.
02.12.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) issued the following statement Tuesday evening following President Obama’s State of the Union Address: “Our nation continues to face enormous challenges; time is short and it is critical we work together to address them. Jobs and the economy must remain our focus as we work to provide relief for middle class families and small businesses here in Michigan and across the country. By all accounts, they have been hit most directly in our economic downturn. That is why we desperately need policies that support the creation of good-paying jobs, not endanger them; promote economic competitiveness and innovation, not stifle them. “Further, we owe it to our children and grandchildren to get our nation back on track to a balanced budget. It is time for a renewed era of fiscal responsibility that breaks from the historic deficits of years past. We addressed the revenue side of the equation in January, now we need to take a sober look at where savings can be made and how government can operate more efficiently. “I was heartened by the President’s repeated call to work beyond party lines on the many pressing issues before us. Meeting these challenges will not be easy, but it is necessary for the future prosperity of our nation.”
02.06.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today renewed his call for the repeal of a new 2.3 percent excise tax on all U.S. sales of medical devices. Devised under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), this nearly $30 billion tax took effect on January 1, 2013, and has already resulted in employee layoffs at U.S. medical device manufacturers like Kalamazoo-based Stryker Corporation. In addition to endangering tens of thousands of American jobs, this new tax hurts patient access to medical innovation and the competitiveness of this important sector for manufacturing and high-skilled jobs. Upton is an original cosponsor of the bipartisan Protect Medical Innovation Act (H.R. 523) to repeal the medical device tax in full, which was reintroduced today in the U.S. House of Representatives. Similar legislation to repeal the device tax passed the House last summer by a bipartisan vote of 270 to 146, but was never considered by the Senate. “Only a month since its implementation and we have already witnessed the devastating impact that this harmful new tax is having on manufacturing jobs and innovation here in Michigan and around the country,” said Upton. “These are dollars that could be better spent on creating local jobs and making critical investments in life-saving technologies. The President has promised to do whatever it takes to move our economy forward and protect struggling middle class families. Repealing the device tax would be a good step in that direction.” In November 2011, Stryker formally announced its intention to restructure and reduce its global workforce in anticipation of the new tax. In November 2012, Stryker confirmed that the company will lay off roughly 1,000 employees.
02.04.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this evening in strong support of legislation to help improve the health and well-being of children afflicted with rare pediatric and genetic diseases. The bipartisan National Pediatric Research Network Act of 2013 (H.R. 225) allows the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to fund pediatric research consortium that are formed from cooperating institutions to promote greater research efficiency and collaboration. Upton has met on numerous occasions with Southwest Michigan families concerning this and other legislation to support children with rare and genetic diseases. The House passed similar bipartisan legislation in 2012, which did not clear the Senate to reach the President’s desk. H.R. 225 passed this evening by a vote of 375 to 27. Click HERE to watch Upton's full Floor remarks. “… I have met a number of times with one family in my district, the Kennedys, who have two precious little girls, Brielle and Brooke – I actually call them Sleeping Beauty and Cinderella. They have the rare disease called Spinal Muscular Atrophy. They are great kids, and Brielle and Brooke have been little warriors in our effort to make the National Pediatric Research Network a reality. It is so difficult to conduct research into these diseases due to the very small number of people with the disease. But today we are working to provide families like the Kennedys and so many others with greater hope for a cure and advances in treatment. …”
01.30.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement on the passing of his friend, lifelong Sturgis resident and community leader Ray Dresser, Jr.: “Ray was a dear friend of mine and really to everyone in Sturgis and St. Joe County. I dare say there isn’t a project impacting the quality of life in the Sturgis community that didn’t have his elbow grease and fingerprints. He was a guy that always wanted the job to get done with a smile on his face. He simply cared about and for everyone he touched, which was very many of us who have the sad task of saying goodbye and God bless. We will all miss him.”
01.29.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today requested that the United States Air Force locate a new airlift mission at the Battle Creek Air National Guard base. The Air Force is soon expected to decide where it will be basing a mission of 32 C-130 or C-27J aircraft as required by the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year (FY) 2013. Upton has long been a strong supporter of the base and the 110th Airlift Wing and was a vocal advocate during the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC). The full text of Upton’s sent letter to Michael B. Donley, Secretary of the Air Force, is below: January 29, 2013 The Honorable Michael Donley Secretary of the Air Force United States Department of Defense 1670 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330-1670 Secretary Donley: As you know, the 2013 National Defense Authorization Act requires the Air Force to retain an additional 32 C-130 or C-27J aircraft beyond what was included in the Air Force’s force structure proposal presented to Congress on November 2, 2012. The Michigan Air National Guard’s 110th Airlift Wing in Battle Creek is an ideal candidate for basing a C-27J or C-130 mission, and I fully support the request made by Governor Snyder and Adjutant General Vadnais to base either mission there. Since the Base Realignment and Closure Commission was completed in 2005, the 110th Airlift Wing has been expecting to receive a C-27J aircraft mission and has prepared accordingly – but the base and its personnel are also more than capable of accepting a C-130 mission instead. The Battle Creek Air National Guard Base has continually modernized its assets and already has nearly everything needed to host either of these missions – including three runways, one of which measures in at 10,000 feet. Battle Creek Air National Guard Base also has up-to-date hangars with adequate space, modern maintenance facilities, talented staff, fuel capabilities, a secure perimeter, and a fire department. In fact, very few physical improvements will need to be made to the Battle Creek Air National Guard Base to support a C-27J or C-130 mission – which is critical in this era of tight budgeting across the Armed Forces. Additionally, the Battle Creek Air National Guard Base has the benefit of a strategic location, with few active duty Air Force installations located in the upper Midwest. It is well-placed to deliver goods and personnel anywhere in the country on short notice, especially to major population centers in the Midwest and in cases of natural disasters, and is also in a prime location near the Canadian border. It is with great confidence in the Michigan Air National Guard that I support the formal request made by Michigan’s Governor and military leaders for the basing of a C-27J or C-130 mission at the Battle Creek Air National Guard Base. Sincerely, Fred Upton Member of Congress
01.25.2013	Now nearly one month into the 113th Congress, the voting record held by Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) continues. According to Congressional Quarterly’s 2011 and 2012 Vote Studies, Upton was one of only nine Members in both the House of Representatives and the Senate to have a perfect record of attendance for the entire 112th Congress. CQ reports that the House held 1,602 roll call votes in 2011 and 2012 combined, while the Senate held 486. “Voting is the cornerstone of our democratic system, a sacred right to ensure our government reflects the will of the people,” said Upton. “I have been entrusted by the families of Southwest Michigan with the great responsibility of making sure their voices are heard in Washington. It is a duty that I do not take lightly, which is why I have always made it a priority to be well-informed and present when the important votes need to be cast.” Upton was listed along with Representatives Adams (R-FL), Conaway (R-TX), LoBiondo (R-NJ), and Womack (R-AR) as well as Senators Collins (R-ME), Grassley (R-IA), Levin (D-MI), and McConnell (R-KY). Upton represents Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District, which since the beginning of 2013 is comprised of Allegan, Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, and Van Buren counties. To stay informed of the views of those he represents, Upton regularly meets with constituents both at home in the district and in Washington, DC, while the House is in session. Upton is notably one of the few Members of Congress who personally signs all of his legislative mail.
01.23.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) voted this afternoon to pass “No Budget, No Pay” legislation (H.R. 325) that requires the House and the Senate to each pass a budget; failure to do so would result in pay being withheld for Members of that legislative body. To date, it has been 1,365 days since the Democratic-controlled Senate has passed an annual budget resolution. H.R. 325 also temporarily raises the debt ceiling to allow the U.S. government to meet its obligations through May 18, 2013. H.R. 325 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 285 to 144 and now heads to the Senate for consideration. “It’s a straightforward concept: if you don’t do your work, you don’t get paid,” said Upton. “It is absolutely shameful that the Senate has not done its job, failing to pass a single budget in nearly four years. Every American family and business operates on a budget – without that fundamental blueprint, how can the Senate reasonably expect to address our nation’s complex fiscal challenges?” The Congressional Budget Act of 1974 requires both the House and the Senate to pass a budget resolution, which the Senate has failed to do since April 29, 2009. H.R. 325 requires both chambers of Congress to pass a Fiscal Year 2014 budget resolution by April 15, 2013. In the event a resolution is not agreed to, the salaries that would have otherwise been paid to the Members of the chamber failing to agree to a budget resolution will be placed in escrow. In accordance with the Twenty-seventh Amendment to the United States Constitution, withheld funds will be released when a budget is adopted or the last day of the 113th Congress. The national debt limit was most recently raised as part of the Budget Control Act of 2011. At the end of 2012, the U.S. Department of the Treasury reached its authorized borrowing limit of $16.4 trillion and has been utilizing “extraordinary measures” to meet our nation’s obligations. Those measures are expected to be exhausted by late February or early March without the enactment of this legislation, causing a default.
01.02.2013	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) issued the following statement following the vote in the House to provide permanent tax relief for struggling families and small businesses as well as stop the federal government from going over the so-called "fiscal cliff": "Last night, the House passed a plan to permanently extend tax relief for Southwest Michigan families and small businesses and to stop our government from going over the ‘fiscal cliff.’ This plan is not the one I would have written, but I would not sit idly by and watch taxes go up on every American, impacting the average Southwest Michigan family to the tune of thousands of dollars. "The plan permanently locks into place current tax rates for middle class families as our economy continues to struggle. It holds down the estate tax for our farmers and small business owners. It permanently fixes the alternative minimum tax (AMT). It provides assurance to our agriculture community by extending the existing farm bill for one year as we work toward a new long-term bill. Finally, it stops the President from giving members of Congress a pay increase as he proposed last week. "This deal is an important first step to protect middle class families and small businesses from higher taxes. But our work will not be complete until we tackle the driver of our debt – spending. Folks are looking for bipartisan solutions and concrete action to right the ship on spending. Every single day, families in Michigan and across America must make tough decisions to balance their checkbooks, pay the bills, and make ends meet, and they expect the same out of their government. We must continue working toward a more sound fiscal future to ensure the next generation has the same opportunities that we do today."
12.12.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) has announced his service academy nominees for the 2013-2014 academic year. The nominees have excelled both academically and athletically at their respective schools and have gone through an extensive selection process. “It brings me great pleasure to nominate these fine young men and women to our nation’s military academies. It is a responsibility I do not take lightly,” said Upton. “Like those who came before them, each member of this distinguished group has undergone a rigorous selection process and represent the finest southwest Michigan has to offer. Our entire community is so proud of their many accomplishments and commitment to the security of our nation.” The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board, which is comprised of local community leaders. Upon approval by the board, the students’ names were then passed on to Upton, who then officially nominated the students to our nation’s military academies. The individual academies will make the final decisions on military appointments. All applicants to military academies must be nominated by a Member of Congress, the President, or the Vice President. “It is truly an honor and privilege to nominate these students as they serve as an outstanding example for other local youth who might aspire to follow in their footsteps,” said Upton. “I strongly encourage local students to contact my St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office if they are interested in applying to the academies and opening a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our nation.” Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office for further information: (269) 982-1986. Upton has nominated the following students for the class of 2017: United States Military Academy (Army) Joseph Livingston Kalamazoo Portage Northern High School Adam Taggett Portage Portage Central High School United States Naval Academy Jason German Three Oaks River Valley High School Jonathan McDougall Stevensville Lakeshore High School David McKeever Allegan Allegan High School Theo Haubold Hartford Hartford High School Colin Howard Portage Portage Northern High School Rachael Armstrong St. Joseph Lakeshore High School Alex Gamso Niles Niles High School United States Air Force Academy Ainnie Husain Kalamazoo Michigan State University Christopher Lucas Mattawan Hackett Catholic Central Kathryn Hawkins Three Rivers Three Rivers High School Vincent Cogswell Kalamazoo Hackett Catholic Central Benjamin Miota Coloma Grace Christian School Amanda Starrett St. Joseph St. Joseph High School Jordan Vuckovich Mattawan Mattawan High School United States Merchant Marine Academy William Fry Sturgis Sturgis High School Ryan Mavity St. Joseph Lakeshore High School
11.28.2012	After once again being selected by his colleagues to serve as Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) today announced the committee leadership he intends to appoint for the 113th Congress and commented on key priorities for the future. Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE) will succeed Rep. Mary Bono Mack (R-CA) leading the Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee and Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA) will take the helm of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee from outgoing Rep. Cliff Stearns (R-FL). Upton also announced that Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) will serve as the full committee Vice Chair, a position previously held by Rep. Sue Myrick (R-NC). The committee's leadership team is expected to be rounded out by returning members including Energy and Power Subcommittee Chairman Ed Whitfield (R-KY), Environment and the Economy Subcommittee Chairman John Shimkus (R-IL), Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-PA), Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR), and Chairman Emeritus Joe Barton (R-TX). Upton also intends to name five new subcommittee Vice Chairs, including tapping Rep. Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), for the key slot on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, in addition to his current role as Vice Chair of the Health Subcommittee. Burgess is a physician with extensive oversight experience who will play a significant role in the continued oversight of the Affordable Care Act. “I am grateful to my colleagues for continuing to place their trust in me and the entire Energy and Commerce team. We have a talented group of leaders with the experience, expertise, and diverse backgrounds that make us well positioned for the important work that lies ahead in the next Congress,” said Chairman Upton. “We delivered a slate of bipartisan achievements to be proud of in the 112th Congress, including key legislation that has been signed into law to create jobs, spur innovation, and protect consumers. I applaud all of our members for their hard work, and I especially extend heartfelt gratitude for the contributions of our departing members. I am confident the Energy and Commerce Committee will continue this record of accomplishment as we welcome new members to the panel and elevate members to new positions of leadership.” The Energy and Commerce Committee leadership team for the 113th Congress is expected to include: Full Committee Chair: Fred Upton (R-MI) Vice Chair: Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) Chairman Emeritus: Joe Barton (R-TX) Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Chair: Lee Terry (R-NE) Vice Chair: Leonard Lance (R-NJ) Communications and Technology Chair: Greg Walden (R-OR) Vice Chair: Bob Latta (R-OH) Energy and Power Chair: Ed Whitfield (R-KY) Vice Chair: Steve Scalise (R-LA) Environment and the Economy Chair: John Shimkus (R-IL) Vice Chair: Phil Gingrey (R-GA) Health Chair: Joe Pitts (R-PA) Vice Chair: Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) Oversight and Investigations Chair: Tim Murphy (R-PA) Vice Chair: Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) (NOTE: Republican committee members must be officially ratified by the GOP Conference. A final committee membership list will be released when available.) “For the last two years, Energy and Commerce has been a productive and inclusive committee that prioritized successful legislating and substantive investigations and oversight,” said Upton. “From fighting regulations that destroy jobs to passing landmark FDA and spectrum reforms and improving pipeline safety, nearly every bill reported out of our committee, as well as those passed by the House, enjoyed bipartisan support. “Jobs are, and will continue to be, job one. We must strive for a smaller, modernized government geared for the innovation era, where the obsolete programs of yesterday are abandoned for fresh approaches that unleash growth and advancement in all sectors - communications, health, manufacturing, and energy. We must also stand up for families, communities, and successful civic initiatives that are working at the state and local level.” Vice Chairman Marsha Blackburn added, “We will do everything we can to protect job creators from harmful and economically destructive regulations and identify opportunities to put Americans back to work. That includes pursuit of a visionary, all-of-the-above approach to energy that proudly embraces all of our natural resources including coal, oil and gas, nuclear, and renewables. With recent breakthroughs in technology, North American energy independence is within our grasp. “We will continue our work identifying savings in the health system and eliminating unaffordable new programs in the ongoing effort to help reduce the cost of health care. Thoughtful, rigorous oversight will also remain a hallmark of our committee in the next Congress as we fight government waste and abuse and ensure that the interests of American taxpayers are always being put first.” Upton concluded, “With a $16 trillion debt, we simply must confront our economic, fiscal, and structural challenges head on - entitlement reform, spending cuts, and tax reforms are a responsible and necessary way forward. Our very economic foundation is at risk if we do not get our fiscal house in order. We have much work to do.”
11.20.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) is reminding folks in southwest Michigan to keep our troops and veterans foremost in their thoughts by participating in the Holiday Mail for Heroes program. The American Red Cross and Pitney Bowes Inc. have again joined forces for the Holiday Mail for Heroes program to provide Americans with the opportunity to extend holiday greetings and thanks to service members and veterans. “A holiday greeting is a simple yet powerful reminder to a member of our military or one of our heroic veterans of how much their service means to us,” said Upton. “With the holidays right around the corner, I hope that you will join me in sharing the spirit of the season with those who answered the call to serve.” Each year, the American Red Cross provides assistance to over 2 million service members and many of our nation’s 24 million veterans. The holiday season is the perfect time to extend a warm greeting and word of gratitude to those who have served and continue to do so. The Red Cross has requested that folks keep in mind a few guidelines: Do... • Include your heartfelt sentiments and sign all cards • Entitle cards with generic salutations such as “Dear Service Member” • Bundle groups of cards in single, large mailing envelopes or flat rate postal shipping boxes. Don’t... • Send letters, care packages, or monetary gifts – only cards are being accepted • Include personal information such as home or email addresses • Use glitter – excessive amounts can aggravate health issues of ill and injured warriors • Include inserts of any kind as they must be removed in the screening process Cards must be received by Holiday Mail for Heroes no later than Friday, December 7th. Cards received after this date cannot be guaranteed delivery. Holiday cards should be addressed and sent to: Holiday Mail for Heroes P.O. Box 5456 Capitol Heights, MD 20791-5456 Upton is also collecting cards at both of his district offices in St. Joseph and Kalamazoo – Upton will forward cards to Holiday Mail for Heroes that are received in either office by Tuesday, December 4th. Those interested may send cards to either office or drop them off in person. St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office 800 Centre 800 Ship Street St. Joseph, MI 49085 269-982-1986 Kalamazoo District Office 157 South Kalamazoo Mall Suite 180 Kalamazoo, MI 49007 269-385-0039 Every card received will be screened for hazardous materials by Pitney Bowes and distributed to participating Red Cross chapters nationwide. Once the cards arrive at the Red Cross chapters, they are sorted and reviewed by volunteers who then distribute them to service members, their families and veterans in communities across the country. For additional information and card requirements, please visit with www.redcross.org/support/get-involved/holiday-mail-for-heroes.
11.15.2012	Today, U.S. Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) issue the following statement on the looming fiscal cliff: “I’ve long said, with a $16 trillion debt we simply must confront our economic, fiscal, and structural challenges head on - entitlement reform, spending cuts, and tax reforms are a responsible and necessary way forward. The fiscal cliff threatens our very economic foundation – and the wild fluctuations of our financial markets serve as a dire warning. We have much work to do, and I am pleased to work with the Speaker and our leaders on crafting a responsible, bipartisan solution.”
11.14.2012	Click here to watch Fred's opening statement At this morning’s Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hearing, U.S. Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) expressed his outrage over the ongoing fungal meningitis outbreak and called for the full cooperation of all involved parties to ensure such a tragedy never happens again. The investigative hearing examined the facts surrounding the current outbreak, the history of complaints associated with the culpable drug compounding facility, and the actions taken by state and federal regulators. “Our prayers are with the victims and their loved ones here in southwest Michigan across the country whose lives have been forever changed because of this deadly outbreak. The loss of innocent lives is heartbreaking and simply inexcusable,” said Upton. “As Chairman, I am fully committed to determining what went wrong and ensure we never endure a deadly outbreak like this again. The Energy and Commerce Committee has had a long, bipartisan tradition to first identify and then pass corrective legislation when tragedies like this occur. The hearing today is just the first step as I am not at all satisfied given the failures at the appropriate oversight agencies.” Testimony was provided at today’s hearing by Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Margaret Hamburg, Massachusetts Department of Public Health (MDPH) Interim Commissioner Dr. Lauren Smith, and Mrs. Joyce Lovelace whose husband died after receiving contaminated steroid injections made and distributed by the New England Compounding Center (NECC) in Framingham, Massachusetts. NECC President, Co-Owner, and Director of Pharmacy Barry Cadden appeared at today’s investigative hearing under congressional subpoena but invoked his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination. Upton’s committee launched its bipartisan investigation in October, requesting an initial briefing from FDA, CDC and the New England Compounding Center. As part of the investigation, the committee has sought documents from the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Pharmacy, the FDA and the NECC. According to the CDC, the outbreak has reached 438 cases, including at least 32 deaths. Michigan is among 19 states reporting illness, accounting for 128 cases and eight deaths in addition to the death of a Cass County grandmother who received contaminated injections from an Indiana facility. According to the Michigan Department of Community Health, the suspected steroid medication was shipped to four facilities in Michigan: Michigan Neurosurgical Institute in Grand Blanc, Michigan Pain Specialists in Brighton, Neuromuscular & Rehabilitation in Traverse City, and Southeast Michigan Surgical Hospital in Warren. Additional background documents and details on today’s hearing may be found here.
11.09.2012	U.S. Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) issued the following statement in recognition of Veterans Day: Every November, we honor the brave men and women of our Armed Forces who have answered the call to serve. Veterans Day is a solemn celebration of all those in uniform who have given so much for our country and the freedoms that we cherish. We remember those who have served in wars past and keep in mind those fighting on the front lines today. We owe all who served – past and present – an enormous debt of gratitude. America’s veterans proudly span the generations since our nation’s founding nearly 24 decades ago. While they come from many different backgrounds, they fought for us and for one another as brothers and sisters in arms. We honor them for their courage and devotion. This Veterans Day we are reminded that freedom does not come without a price. All of our service members and their families have been asked to give something of themselves – many have given everything. We can never fully repay the men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice, but it is our sacred duty to remember the fallen today. These men and women were still in the prime of their lives and followed a selfless path that led them to serve. They leave behind a community of loved ones that misses them deeply every day. We also remember the troops who are still fighting for our nation today. As we wind down our military presence in Afghanistan, we must continue to give our soldiers and their families the support they deserve, both on the battlefield and back home. They deserve nothing less than the best. Our thoughts and prayers are with them and their families, and we all look forward to their safe return home. We are forever grateful to all veterans who defended our homeland in times of peace and war. We truly remain the land of the free because of our brave.
11.05.2012	Continuing his committee’s investigation of the deadly meningitis outbreak, U.S. Representative Fred Upton (R- St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today joined other committee leaders in announcing the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations will convene a hearing on Wednesday, November 14, 2012. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Margaret Hamburg is scheduled to testify. The subcommittee has also invited James Coffey, Director of the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Pharmacy, and Barry Cadden, Director of Pharmacy and owner of the New England Compounding Center. Upton, Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman, Subcommittee Chairman Cliff Stearns, and Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette said, “Our committee has a long, bipartisan history of conducting drug safety oversight. Since the meningitis outbreak, we have been in close contact with the involved agencies and parties, but many unanswered questions remain. The NECC has a history of problems, some of which were documented in an FDA warning letter in 2006 – we want to know what went wrong at this facility, the views and actions of its regulators, and what steps can be taken to ensure such an outbreak never happens again.” The committee launched its bipartisan investigation in October requesting an initial briefing from FDA, CDC and the New England Compounding Center. As part of the investigation, the committee has sought documents from the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Pharmacy, the FDA and the NECC. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the outbreak has reached 419 cases, including at least 30 deaths. Michigan is among 19 states reporting illness, accounting for 119 cases and seven deaths. According to the Michigan Department of Community Health, the suspected steroid medication was shipped to four facilities in Michigan: Michigan Neurosurgical Institute in Grand Blanc, Michigan Pain Specialists in Brighton, Neuromuscular & Rehabilitation in Traverse City, and Southeast Michigan Surgical Hospital in Warren. The CDC advises that patients who feel ill or are concerned that they may have been a recipient of the NECC steroid should contact their healthcare provider immediately. The CDC also reports that this form of meningitis is not contagious. Additional hearing details will be posted online here when available.
11.01.2012	The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM), the nation’s largest industrial trade association representing small and large manufacturers, has presented Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) with its “NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence” for his support of a pro-growth, pro-manufacturing policy agenda in the 112th Congress. Among other issues, Upton was recognized for his work to promote the production of North American energy; repeal the overreaching healthcare law; support free trade; provide necessary tax relief; and reduce the costly regulatory burden imposed on the nation’s manufacturers. “From auto parts to medical devices, southwest Michigan manufacturers lead in innovation and the creation of good-paying jobs,” said Upton. “The continued strength of our manufacturing sector is essential to future job creation and economic growth here in Michigan. That means removing the unnecessary regulatory burdens that stand in the way of our employers as well as supporting commonsense policies that keep taxes and energy costs down.” “Manufacturers today compete in a global marketplace,” said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. “It is critical that Washington creates policies to keep us competitive and maintain our mantle of economic leadership. Congressman Upton understands this and has consistently supported the pro-manufacturing agenda through his votes in Congress.” NAM bestows its award at the end of each Congress to Members of the House of Representatives and Senate whose voting records are 70 percent and above in support of NAM’s positions on Key Manufacturing Votes. Upton received a score of 97 percent for his legislative record this Congress (2011-2012). A complete list of Key Votes in the 112th Congress and the voting records of Members may be found on NAM’s website at www.nam.org/votingrecord. Consisting of 11,000 manufacturing companies, the National Association of Manufacturers is the largest manufacturing association in the United States, representing manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states.
10.31.2012	This morning at his Kalamazoo District Office, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) presented service medals to local Iraq War veteran Chadwick L. “Chad” Dillon for his service in the Michigan Army National Guard. Dillon is currently a senior political science major at Western Michigan University. “It is a great honor to recognize Chad Dillon for his exemplary service to our country,” said Upton. “Chad is a remarkable young man, belonging to the first generation of brave American veterans to answer our nation’s call in a post-September 11th world. We are forever indebted to our courageous warriors like Chad Dillon for their countless sacrifices to keep our nation safe and secure.” Born in 1987, Dillon joined the Michigan Army National Guard in December 2004 and completed his service in December 2010. During his time of service, Dillon served as an infantryman during Operation Iraqi Freedom from January 2008 to January 2009, providing convoy security in southern Iraq. Upton presented Dillon with the Army Good Conduct Medal; the National Defense Service Medal; the Armed Forces Reserve Medal (with an “M” device for mobilization); the Army Reserve Components Achievement Medal; the Army Service Ribbon; the Driver and Mechanic Badge (with Driver “W” Bar for wheeled vehicles); the Global War on Terror Expeditionary Medal; the Global War on Terror Service Medal; and the Iraq Campaign Medal with one bronze service star.
10.11.2012	U.S. Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has requested bipartisan briefings from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) regarding the recent fungal meningitis outbreak linked to contaminated spinal steroid injections. A briefing has also been requested from the New England Compounding Center (NECC) of Framingham, Massachusetts, which federal officials have linked to the contaminated steroid solution. According to the CDC, the outbreak has reached 170 cases, including at least 14 deaths. Michigan is among eleven states reporting illness, accounting for 39 cases and three deaths. The number of confirmed cases is expected to rise in the coming weeks given that 13,000 patients have been injected with the steroid nationwide. “Our prayers are with the families here in Michigan and across the country whose loved ones have been lost or endangered because of this outbreak,” said Upton. “As Chairman, my committee is now focused on uncovering the details of this outbreak, finding out what went wrong, and working to prevent another outbreak of this nature.” Upton’s committee staff first contacted the FDA last Friday, October 5, 2012, to request a briefing on the outbreak. On Tuesday, October 9, Upton was joined by other committee members requesting that the FDA and CDC briefings occur no later than Friday, October 12. On October 11, Upton and fellow committee members requested full compliance from the NECC, including preservation of “all documents and communications that may be relevant to understanding how the product was contaminated and distributed as well as the business practices of the NECC in general.” A briefing from the NECC has been requested no later than October 18. According to the Michigan Department of Community Health, the suspected steroid medication was shipped to four facilities in Michigan: Michigan Neurosurgical Institute in Grand Blanc, Michigan Pain Specialists in Brighton, Neuromuscular & Rehabilitation in Traverse City, and Southeast Michigan Surgical Hospital in Warren. The CDC advises that patients who feel ill or are concerned that they may have been a recipient of the NECC steroid should contact their healthcare provider immediately. The CDC also reports that this form of meningitis is not contagious.
10.10.2012	This morning in his Kalamazoo District Office, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) presented overdue service medals to local veteran Donald W. Morris, who served in the United States Air Force from 1965 to 1968. “It is a great honor to pay tribute to Donald Morris for his heroic service to our nation,” said Upton. “Fresh out of high school, Donald left all that he knew behind to serve his nation. We are so grateful for the countless sacrifices made by veterans like Donald Morris. It is because of men and women like Donald that our nation remains safe and secure.” Born in Kalamazoo in 1947, Morris enlisted in the Air Force at the age of 18 and served for more than three years before being honorably discharged from the service in 1968. From March 1967 to August 1968, Morris was assigned to the 4157th Strategic Wing (soon to become the 6th Strategic Wing) at Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska. Morris now resides in Paw Paw, Michigan. Upton presented Morris with the Air Force Good Conduct Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, and the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award.
10.09.2012	The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) has honored Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) with its prestigious “Guardian of Small Business Award” for his legislative work on behalf of small business owners in the 112th Congress. Among other issues, Upton was recognized for his leadership to protect America’s job creators from costly federal regulations; efforts to promote North American energy production to create jobs and reduce energy costs; opposition to the President’s healthcare law mandates; and support for a Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. “Small businesses are at the forefront of our economic recovery here in Michigan, leading the way for job creation and innovation in the private sector,” said Upton. “In speaking with our area employers, their message is clear: give them greater certainty so they can focus on what they do best, namely creating good-paying jobs in our local communities.” NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner praised Upton for “standing for small business.” “The record shows that Rep. Upton is a true champion of small business, having stood strong on the key small-business votes in the 112th Congress,” said Danner. “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business.” Founded in 1943, NFIB is the leading small business association representing small and independent businesses. NFIB recognizes Members of Congress based on rankings it gives for key small business votes outlined in its publication How Congress Voted. Upton earned a 100 percent ranking with NFIB for the 112th Congress.
09.20.2012	Click here to watch Upton's floor statements Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives last night in strong support of legislation to advance vital health research. The two bipartisan bills – the Recalcitrant Cancer Research Act of 2012 (H.R. 733) and the National Pediatric Research Network Act of 2012 (H.R. 6163) – passed Upton’s Energy and Commerce Committee last week by voice vote and did the same yesterday before the full House. Upton is hopeful that the Senate will act quickly to pass both bills to ensure that they reach the President’s desk in the coming days. “The breakthrough advancements made in this research at the national level are so important to so many families on the personal level,” said Upton. “For someone diagnosed with a hard-to-treat cancer or a parent whose child suffers from an untreatable genetic disease, hope can be hard to come by. But by giving these often-fatal conditions the attention they rightfully deserve, we offer patients and their families a little more hope.” H.R. 733 supports research of cancers with low survival rates – such as pancreatic, liver, and esophageal cancers – by directing the National Cancer Institute to establish a scientific framework to advance diagnosis and treatment. With their unique molecular structure, these cancers spread under the radar of traditional diagnostic tools. When they are eventually diagnosed, the damage is substantial, the treatments are ineffective, and the prognosis is poor. The Recalcitrant Cancer Research Act is an important step in working toward breakthrough advances in cancer research. H.R. 6163 seeks to further research of rare and genetic diseases in infants and children. The legislation allows the National Institutes of Health to fund pediatric research consortium that are formed from cooperating institutions to promote greater research efficiency and collaboration. Upton has long been a leading proponent of efforts to advance lifesaving biomedical research. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Upton championed the successful reauthorization of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fee programs for prescription drugs and medical devices – helping U.S. manufactures better compete and bring their life-saving products to patients faster. The FDA user fee reauthorization also included provisions to support generic drugs and biosimilars, prevent drug shortages, and promote treatment options for children with rare diseases.
09.14.2012	The U.S. House of Representatives voted this afternoon to pass the “No More Solyndras Act” (H.R. 6213), legislation authored by Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph). The “No More Solyndras Act” is a product of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s extensive year-and-a-half investigation into the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) $535 million loan guarantee to Solyndra, the California solar panel manufacturer that went bankrupt last September. The committee’s investigation revealed DOE’s loan guarantee program to be poorly managed and lacking sufficient safeguards for American taxpayers. Solyndra filed for bankruptcy just over a year ago on September 6, 2011, and two days later was raided by the FBI on September 8, 2011. H.R. 6213 passed the House by a vote of 245 to 161 and now heads to the Senate. “At a time when our focus is job creation and the economy, the very last thing that folks in Michigan should have to worry about is whether or not their hard-earned tax dollars are being used responsibly,” said Upton. “We can create good-paying jobs and reduce energy prices through a commitment to North American energy production, but as the case of Solyndra proves, government should not be in the business of picking winners and losers. The ‘No More Solyndras Act’ phases out this costly, ineffective, and mismanaged program to ensure that Michigan families and businesses are never again left holding the bag for Washington’s risky bets.” The “No More Solyndras Act,” authored by full committee Chairman Upton and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Cliff Stearns (R-FL), would protect American taxpayers by phasing out the DOE’s mismanaged loan guarantee program and provide taxpayers strong new protections for any pending applications in the program. The legislation provides greater loan guarantee transparency and prohibits DOE from restructuring the terms of any loan guarantee without Treasury consultation. The Act also reaffirms that the interests of U.S. taxpayers are not to be subordinated to those of other investors. Watch Upton’s full Floor remarks HERE Read Upton’s September 14th Washington Times op-ed HERE
09.13.2012	Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) voted last evening for bipartisan legislation that will help manufacturers in Michigan and across the United States compete and create jobs. The American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act (H.R. 5865) will establish a public-private American Manufacturing Competitiveness Board to advise the President on manufacturing issues and conduct a rigorous analysis of America’s manufacturing sector. The Board will also develop and submit to the President a national manufacturing competitiveness strategy, which will help eliminate red tape, encourage investment, and create more American manufacturing jobs. H.R. 5865, which passed Upton’s Energy and Commerce Committee by voice vote this summer, passed the House by a vote of 339 to 77 and now heads to the Senate for further consideration. “No one has felt the pain of our economic recession greater than our manufacturers here in Michigan; ensuring their strong comeback is absolutely essential to our national recovery and the renewed creation of good-paying jobs,” said Upton. “This commonsense, bipartisan legislation gives our manufacturing renaissance the priority it deserves. I applaud my colleagues, particularly those on the Energy and Commerce Committee, for working together to put our nation’s job creators first.”
09.11.2012	Today marks the eleven year anniversary of the horrific attacks against our nation on the morning of September 11th, 2001. Even now – more than a decade later – the memories and emotions of that fateful day seem as fresh as ever before. The world as we know it was turned upside down by those unthinkable acts of violent extremism, which took the lives of nearly 3,000 individuals in New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia – leaving a mark on every American. From the smoldering ruins of the Twin Towers and the Pentagon to the wreckage of United Airlines Flight 93, the painful images and heartbreaking personal stories of that day will not be forgotten. This Patriot Day, we remember the thousands of innocent lives lost and the communities of loved ones they left behind. We also honor the countless acts of heroism and leadership shown by brave American men and women in those hours pandemonium and in the days, weeks, and months that followed. This anniversary, we are also reminded of those who have answered the call to keep our nation safe and secure from future terrorist attacks. From our emergency responders to the members of our Armed Forces, they have dedicated their lives to protecting our own. We are so grateful for their service and our thoughts and prayers are with them every day. We will never forget the events that began at 8:46 in the morning on September 11th, 2001, as we have been forever changed by them. The world has become a much smaller and more uncertain place – and yet, we as Americans are closely united in our commitment to the principles of life, liberty, and justice for all.
08.02.2012	The House Energy and Commerce Committee, Chaired by Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), today released an extensive report detailing the findings of its investigation into the Department of Energy’s management of its loan guarantee program. The 147-page report chronicles the committee’s 18-month investigation into DOE’s failed $535 million loan guarantee to Solyndra, which included the review of over 300,000 pages of documents, interviews with numerous individuals, and five committee oversight hearings. The report was released following the committee’s approval yesterday of the “No More Solyndras Act,” legislation authored by Upton and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Cliff Stearns (R-FL) to ensure taxpayers will never again be left on the hook for risky bets like Solyndra or other stimulus failures. The report states, “Now, after a thorough review of the record, the Committee is able to present a complete picture of the facts and circumstances surrounding the DOE’s decision to award a loan guarantee to Solyndra, and the roles various Executive Branch agencies, including the White House, played in these events.” The report details the evidence gathered during the course of the investigation and the committee’s conclusions. The evidence demonstrates administration officials knew Solyndra was a bad bet from the beginning, but the White House was determined to make Solyndra a stimulus success story at any cost. Despite repeated warnings that Solyndra was doomed to fail, the Obama administration went ahead in backing the solar company, cutting corners in the process, and rushed the loan guarantee out the door. The investigation also found DOE knowingly violated the law when it restructured the terms of the loan guarantee and subordinated taxpayers’ interest to the interests of private investors. Documents obtained by the committee exposed a startling relationship between Solyndra and another stimulus-backed project. The report details Solyndra’s role as a supplier for Prologis’ Project Amp, a solar panel installation project and the recipient of a partial loan guarantee for $1.4 billion. The White House was well aware of Solyndra’s deteriorating financial condition when it allowed DOE to move forward with Project Amp. DOE would later use the relationship between Project Amp and Solyndra as a key bargaining tool to push for a second restructuring while directly engaging in last minute negotiations between Solyndra and the Project Amp sponsor. The report also gives an in-depth look into the role played by one of President Obama’s prominent backers in the administration’s decision to issue the loan guarantee and the loan’s restructuring that put taxpayers behind two private investors. Key decision makers at DOE, including head of the loans program office Jonathan Silver, knew of billionaire George Kaiser’s influence and attempted to leverage it. According to the report, “Individuals connected to the George Kaiser Family Foundation (GKFF) — whose primary investment arm, Argonaut, was Solyndra’s largest shareholder — played important roles in a series of critical discussions and negotiations with DOE. George Kaiser, whose fortune funds the GKFF, was closely involved in financial decisions related to Solyndra, often authorizing key disbursements and restructuring proposals, as well as in Solyndra’s lobbying, public relations, and government procurement strategies in Washington.” “Solyndra will be remembered in the history books as a sad hallmark of a newly installed administration that felt it was above the rules, lusting for positive headlines rather than focused on delivering results. We now know the first domino of the Solyndra mess was DOE cutting the Treasury Department out of the approval process in the rush to send what will go down as the most expensive press release known to man. Now, Solyndra is a painful reminder of why the federal government should not be in the venture capital business. Our investigation revealed a shocking episode where politics were put before taxpayers and integrity was sacrificed for the sake of corporate favoritism,” said Upton. “We discovered the problem, and now we reported legislation to correct the situation in The No More Solyndras Act to ensure that taxpayers will never again be the victims of the administration’s blind political ambition and gross negligence.” “What was once the poster child for the administration’s green energy spending plan, Solyndra is now a symbol of President Obama’s failed stimulus economy,” said Stearns. “Our investigation uncovered a political saga starring key White House officials and big Obama donors. The story reaches a turning point when DOE subordinates taxpayers to outside funding and then Solyndra files for bankruptcy, laying off employees and leaving taxpayers on the hook for millions of dollars. While this may make for a great Hollywood drama, it is a disturbing truth for taxpayers. We must ensure that the Solyndra story is never repeated.” Below is a summary of the committee’s findings included in the report: The timing of the Solyndra Conditional Commitment was coordinated with the White House, and scheduled before DOE had reached an agreement with the company on key terms. DOE failed to consult with the Department of the Treasury during the course of its review of Solyndra’s application, as required by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Instead, DOE asked Treasury to review the terms only after it had made the decision to issue the conditional commitment to Solyndra. Even then, Treasury was only given one day to review the terms. The Department of Energy should have better anticipated the market challenges that contributed to Solyndra’s financial condition. The Department of Energy ignored critical red flags about Solyndra’s financial condition prior to closing the loan guarantee in September 2009. The White House and the Department of Energy scheduled a public announcement event to commemorate the closing of the Solyndra loan guarantee before OMB had reviewed the transaction, impacting the length and quality of OMB’s review. DOE closed the Solyndra loan guarantee and moved forward with Solyndra’s second loan guarantee application before DOE had the capability to monitor the first loan guarantee. Solyndra’s financial strategy was dependent on additional government support in the form of sales contracts and a second loan guarantee. DOE agreed to subordinate its interest to Solyndra’s investors in the restructuring before determining whether the Energy Policy Act permitted subordination. DOE’s financial analysis of the restructuring was flawed. OMB’s oversight and review of restructuring failed – the agency identified risks but still allowed the restructuring to move forward. DOE approved the conditional commitment for Project Amp while knowing Solyndra—the sole supplier for the project’s first phase—was in desperate financial shape. The relationship between Solyndra and Project Amp was understood by the White House and became a critical bargaining piece of the second restructuring negotiations with Solyndra and its investors. George Kaiser was closely involved in important decisions related to Solyndra throughout the life of the loan guarantee. Despite the administration’s furious efforts to save Solyndra, Ron Klain’s unvarnished assessment of the loan guarantee program in an email to a reporter on November 10, 2010 sums up the pitfalls of the program. At the time, Klain was Vice President Biden’s Chief of Staff. In a November 10, 2010, email, Mr. Klain discussed with a reporter some of the challenges facing the DOE Loan Guarantee Program. Mr. Klain explained “loan guarantees present harder problems than just giving people cash . . . [b]ecause with a loan guarantee, we are presumably expecting to get paid back.” The challenge, according to Mr. Klain, was determining which companies should receive loans. Mr. Klain noted, “If you loan money to people doing super risky things, like Solyndra (a plant to build a new kind of solar collector never used before) there’s some chance (a decent chance) you won’t get paid back. If you loan money to people doing proven (but larger) things like [REDACTED], folks argue, ‘hey, that’s just an old technology, those guys could get bank funding if they really tried to.’ So on loan guarantees, you are searching for Goldilocks projects – too risky for the banks, but safe enough to have a high likelihood of repayment. That’s a pretty narrow fit.” -Excerpt pulled from page 71, The Solyndra Failure To view the entire report, click here. To view the supporting documents, click here. To view additional materials relating to the Solyndra Investigation, click here.
08.02.2012	Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) voted today for legislation that lays the groundwork for enacting pro-growth tax reform in 2013. The “Pathway to Job Creation through a Simpler, Fairer Tax Code Act of 2012” (H.R. 6169) would establish an expedited timeline for Congress to consider comprehensive tax reform legislation this upcoming spring. Upton supports broad restructuring of the federal tax system to provide relief for Michigan families as well as to give American businesses the certainty they need to compete and create good-paying jobs. H.R. 6169 passed the House by a vote of 232-189 and now heads to the Senate for consideration. Today’s vote to overhaul the nation’s tax system coincides with yesterday’s House passage of bipartisan legislation (H.R. 8) that blocks a massive tax increase from hitting all U.S. taxpayers on January 2, 2013, in part by extending current income tax rates for one year. “If there is one thing that Michigan job creators need right now it is greater certainty to hire, invest, and plan for the long term,” said Upton. “In the face of high unemployment, the administration remains tone deaf to the plight of American employers, adding to the costs of doing business through higher taxes and increased regulation. Simplifying our massive and overly complex federal tax code will help Michigan employers compete and provide much needed relief for struggling families here at home and around the country.” In order for such tax reform legislation to receive expedited treatment in the House and Senate next year, H.R. 6169 further stipulates that such a package must contain proposals to: 1) consolidate the six current individual income tax brackets into two brackets of 10 and not more than 25 percent; 2) reduce the corporate income tax rate to not more than 25 percent; 3) repeal the alternative minimum tax (AMT); 4) broaden the tax base so that revenues comprise between 18 and 19 percent of gross domestic product (GDP); and 5) reform the current system of foreign taxation. Providing tax relief is particularly important as the national unemployment has remained above 8 percent for 41 consecutive months – 48 months in Michigan – and nearly 13 million Americans find themselves looking for work.
08.01.2012	The House Energy and Commerce Committee voted today to pass legislation coauthored by Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the committee, to protect American taxpayer dollars from risky federal bets in the energy industry. The “No More Solyndras Act” (H.R. 6213) is the product of the committee’s long-running investigation into the $535 million U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) loan guarantee to the California solar panel manufacturer Solyndra. The company’s predicted bankruptcy cost thousands of jobs and left taxpayers on the hook for more than half a billion dollars. The measure passed committee by a bipartisan vote of 29 to 19 and will next head to the House Floor. “As we work to put our nation’s fiscal house back in order, folks in Michigan deserve the peace of mind in knowing that their hard-earned tax dollars are not squandered on risky bets like Solyndra,” said Upton. “As our investigation of the stimulus-backed loan guarantee revealed, the Obama administration ignored the warnings time and again, ultimately leaving taxpayers on the hook for more than half a billion dollars. The ‘No More Solyndras Act’ demands greater transparency to protect the American taxpayer and phases out the failed loan guarantee program.” As the committee’s investigation revealed, the Obama administration put Solyndra’s loan on the fast track despite repeated red flags and warnings from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and DOE officials. When the warnings came to fruition and Solyndra was out of cash in the fall of 2010, the Obama administration doubled down on its bad bet, restructuring Solyndra’s loan in early 2011 and putting wealthy investors at the front of the line ahead of taxpayers. Upton coauthored H.R. 6213 with Representative Cliff Stearns (R-FL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, to ensure taxpayers are never again stuck paying hundreds of millions of dollars because of the Obama administration’s risky bets. The “No More Solyndras Act” will phase out DOE’s flawed loan guarantee program under Title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and provide taxpayers strong new protections for any pending participants in the program. The bill provides greater loan guarantee transparency by requiring DOE to report to Congress on the decision-making process and details of the loan. The bill also prohibits DOE from restructuring the terms of any guarantee and forbids the subordination of U.S. taxpayers’ dollars to any other investors.
08.01.2012	Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) voted today for legislation to block a massive tax increase that will otherwise hit all U.S. taxpayers on January 1, 2013. The looming tax hike totals more than $4 trillion over the next decade, equating to a tax increase of nearly $2,200 for a family of four earning $50,000 a year. Among other provisions, the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act (H.R. 8) extends current income tax rates for one year, maintains the $1,000 child tax credit, extends marriage penalty relief, and continues the 15 percent top rate on dividends and capital gains, which are important to both young Michigan families and retirees. H.R. 8 passed the House by bipartisan votes of 256-171. Tomorrow, the House is expected to consider legislation (H.R. 6169) that sets into motion the process of drastically overhauling our nation’s overly complex tax code next year. “Allowing this massive tax hike to hit already struggling families and employers would have a chilling effect on our recovery – costing hundreds of thousands of jobs in the process. That is simply unconscionable,” said Upton. “Unemployment remains too high in Michigan and employers continue to face a hostile regulatory climate that breeds further uncertainty. By providing our job creators and families with this tax relief today, we set the stage for enacting what our economy desperately needs in the near future: comprehensive, pro-growth tax reform that makes our country more competitive and the current tax code simpler and fairer to all taxpayers.” Providing continued tax relief is particularly important as the national unemployment has remained above 8 percent for 41 consecutive months – 48 months in Michigan – and nearly 13 million Americans find themselves looking for work.
07.26.2012	Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) voted this afternoon to help give Michigan small businesses greater economic certainty by providing much-needed relief from costly federal regulations. Among other things, the Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act (H.R. 4078) would freeze costly new regulations until the national unemployment rate drops to 6 percent or lower. The bipartisan package also includes measures to streamline the federal permitting approval process for construction projects as well as permanently prevent “lame duck” administrations from promulgating a tidal wave of new regulations before leaving office, as has been past practice. The onslaught of costly new federal regulations remains an obstacle to job creators who face the slowest economic recovery in memory. Left unchecked, the administration’s aggressive barrage of new rules will drive up costs for employers by billions of dollars per year, harm employee wages and benefits, increase energy costs, and force countless American jobs overseas. H.R. 4078 passed the House by a vote of 245 to 172 and now heads to the Senate for consideration. “Small business owners are the risk takers leading our economic recovery here in Michigan and across the country,” said Upton. “But rather than encouraging our entrepreneurs and supporting local job creation, the Obama administration continues to propose new regulations on small business at an astounding rate. This bipartisan legislation brings this endless tide of costly regs to a halt, allowing our job creators to focus their time, money, and resources on the important task of putting our nation back to work.” As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Upton has helped lead the charge to protect Michigan families and businesses from unnecessary and overreaching regulations. Small businesses account for more than 90 percent of all Michigan employers and employ over half of the state’s private sector workforce. In a January 18, 2011, Wall Street Journal op-ed, President Obama wrote: “[T]oday I am directing federal agencies to do more to account for – and reduce – the burdens regulations may place on small businesses. Small firms drive growth and create most new jobs in this country. We need to make sure nothing stands in their way.” But in the year and a half since, the regulations continue to pile up at an historic rate. Since first taking office, the Obama administration has proposed more than 3,100 new regulations, 167 of which would have an impact on the economy at or above $100 million.
07.25.2012	Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, this afternoon joined the Subcommittee on Energy and Power in passing the “No More Solyndras Act.” The draft legislation, which is co-authored by Upton and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Cliff Stearns (R-FL), is the product of the committee’s long-running investigation into the $535 million U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) loan guarantee to the California solar panel manufacturer that ultimately went bankrupt, costing thousands of jobs and leaving taxpayers on the hook for half a billion dollars. The legislation is expected to be considered by the full committee in the near future. “The ‘No More Solyndras Act’ will help protect taxpayers against risky bets like Solyndra and the other stimulus failures where the government ignored red flags and ended up losing hundreds of millions of dollars,” said Upton. “With DOE's stimulus record sadly littered with failure, our bill combines new safeguards and a phase-out of the program to ensure that there will be No More Solyndras.” As the committee’s investigation revealed, the Obama administration put Solyndra’s loan on the fast track despite repeated red flags and warnings from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and DOE officials. When the warnings came to fruition and Solyndra was out of cash in the autumn of 2010, the Obama administration doubled down on its bad bet, restructuring Solyndra’s loan in early 2011 and putting wealthy investors at the front of the line ahead of taxpayers. Upton coauthored this draft legislation to ensure taxpayers are never again stuck paying hundreds of millions of dollars because of the Obama administration’s risky bets. The “No More Solyndras Act” will phase out DOE’s flawed loan guarantee program under Title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and provide taxpayers strong new protections for any pending participants in the program. The bill provides greater loan guarantee transparency by requiring DOE to report to Congress on the decision-making process and details of the loan. The bill also prohibits DOE from restructuring the terms of any guarantee and forbids the subordination of U.S. taxpayers’ dollars to any other investors. For text of the draft Upton-Stearns “No More Solyndras Act,” click HERE. For letters and statements of support for the “No More Solyndras Act,” click HERE.
07.24.2012	Ensuring the continued safety of the Palisades Nuclear Power Plant in Covert Township was Representative Fred Upton’s (R-St. Joseph) focus today at an Energy and Commerce joint subcommittee hearing with nuclear regulators. The hearing, entitled “NRC Policy and Governance Oversight,” focused on U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) decisions and actions relating to licensing and policy making, as well as governance of the agency. This was the first congressional hearing with newly appointed NRC Chairman Allison Macfarlane who appeared alongside NRC Commissioners Kristine Svinicki, William Magwood, and William Ostendorff to provide testimony to Upton and other Energy and Commerce members. During the hearing, Upton directly raised the situation at Palisades with members of the NRC. Upton and staff have received repeated briefings on Palisades from both the NRC and Entergy, which owns and operates the Southwest Michigan plant. “It is absolutely critical to ensure that our nation’s nuclear facilities operate at the highest possible level of safety,” said Upton. “Our communities deserve the assurance of knowing that when issues do arise that they will be immediately identified and addressed. Most important is to prevent any problems from occurring in the first place. This is why there are strict safety standards and safeguards in place. Every minute of every day, nuclear power plants have the immense responsibility of complying with these standards. As someone who lives just a short distance from two nuclear power plants, I share the concerns of many over the reports of degraded performance of the Palisades facility in Van Buren County. I appreciate the immediate attention of officials at Entergy and the NRC to address those concerns, and will continue to monitor this situation closely. Through proper oversight, nuclear power will continue to play a vital role in providing our nation with a safe, affordable, and reliable supply of American-made energy.” Created as an independent agency by Congress in 1974, the NRC is charged with ensuring the safe use of radioactive materials at commercial nuclear power plants and for other civilian purposes.
07.19.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) joined Members of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power in passing the draft “U.S. Agricultural Sector Relief Act of 2012,” which seeks to ensure American farmers have access to the agricultural fumigant methyl bromide for critical uses. The Subcommittee held a hearing on the draft legislation yesterday, where Upton welcomed testimony from Russ Costanza, owner of Russell Costanza Farms in Sodus, Michigan. As a southwest Michigan grower who employs 125 workers, Costanza provided first-hand testimony on the importance of ensuring methyl bromide remains available to farmers on a limited basis for critical uses. “With this spring’s devastating frosts and the subsequent summer drought, farmers in Michigan and throughout the country are already facing one of the worst growing seasons in decades,” said Upton. “For many crops and uses there are adequate substitutes, and as a result, methyl bromide usage is down by over 90 percent. But in those cases where no viable alternative is available, methyl bromide must remain available to our growers. This legislation is critical to the livelihood of countless Michigan farmers, farming communities, and thousands of spinoff jobs like trucking and processing, not to mention that the safety of our nation’s food supply hangs in the balance.” Costanza described the necessity of continued methyl bromide availability, and warned that the lack of alternatives was creating a farming crisis in America. “Due to the lost quality and yields associated with these crops, we have experienced decreased profits for our remaining workers and our farm. My family, our workers, and I pride ourselves on providing high quality and affordable food to U.S. consumers and to making a meaningful contribution to our country’s economy. Unfortunately, our ability to do so is vanishing due to the lack of methyl bromide or an effective, affordable alternative,” said Costanza. “I cannot overstate the importance of access to methyl bromide for my farm operation and my fellow Michigan growers. We are facing a crisis and need relief.” For decades, methyl bromide was widely used in the United States for agricultural applications, including for the cultivation of strawberries, tomatoes, eggplant, peppers, flowers, and tree and vine crops, and at food storage, processing and handling facilities. Under the Montreal protocol and Title VI of the Clean Air Act, the United States has phased out the use of methyl bromide except for critical uses and other exemptions. Since 2005, U.S. nominations for critical use exemptions have decreased by over 90 percent. The proposed legislation would direct the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to continue to seek critical use exemptions for methyl bromide under the treaty for the full amounts necessary, and to allow for the use of limited quantities of methyl bromide in response to emergency events.
07.16.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today released a report on the committee’s activities from the 2nd quarter of the 2nd Session of the 112th Congress. The report, the sixth such quarterly report that has been issued by Upton, was delivered to members of the committee and offers highlights of their efforts to create jobs, spur economic growth, protect taxpayers by limiting the size and scope of government, and strengthen protections for individual liberty and safety, all as part of their overall agenda crafted earlier this year. In the report Upton notes, “With the first half of the year now complete, and three-fourths of the 112th Congress now in the rearview mirror, it seems like a fitting time to revisit the goals we set forth a few short months ago. I am pleased to report to you that we have made significant progress on the legislative initiatives we identified at the beginning of the year, and work is underway to complete them all.” The report highlights a number of issues where the committee has been able to make strides toward the overall goal of creating a more efficient, limited government that provides the necessary conditions for job creation and economic growth. A summary of the committee’s progress on key initiatives follows: Supporting Job Creation and Economic Growth The committee’s work to support job creation and economic growth spanned a broad range of issues, from FDA and spectrum reform to expanded energy development and stronger support for American manufacturing. Following over a year of hearings and public input from patients and innovators before the Subcommittee on Health, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act moved through the committee, the House, and negotiations with the Senate; it was given final unanimous approval and signed into law. As part of the push for a true “all-of-the-above” energy strategy, the Subcommittee on Energy and Power continued pressing for approval of the Keystone XL pipeline and the jobs and energy security it would bring, fought against the costly agenda of the Obama EPA, and advanced legislation providing for increased hydropower development. And the Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade moved legislation aimed at reducing red tape and restoring America’s competitiveness in manufacturing. Standing Up for Taxpayers, Reducing the Size and Scope of the Federal Government The Energy and Commerce Committee has made it a priority to stand up for the interests of taxpayers and work to reduce the size and scope of the federal government, an important objective in this time of record debt and sustained deficit spending. Because it represents a dramatic increase in spending and government intervention into people’s lives, the committee continues working to repeal Obamacare in order to allow Congress to start again, by listening to the American people, to pursue commonsense reforms to our health care system. Eliminating elements of Obamacare was also an important component of the committee’s efforts to get rid of wasteful, unaccountable spending the country simply cannot afford. The Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations continues working to uncover and eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse in the Medicare program. At the same time, the Oversight and Investigations team’s investigation of the failed loan-guarantee to Solyndra is culminating in the “No More Solyndras Act,” legislation aimed at phasing out the loan guarantee program, which despite the claim of “enormous success” from the administration, has left taxpayers on the hook for hundreds of millions, perhaps billions of dollars in bad investments. And continuing the effort to promote good government, the House approved legislation out of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology that will bring increased efficiency, transparency, and predictability to the Federal Communications Commission. Protecting Individuals, Families, and Communities The committee’s efforts to protect individuals, families, and communities encompass everything from standing up for individual liberty to examining solutions to protect online privacy in a dynamic, digital age and to assuring the safety of our nation by prioritizing nuclear safety, cybersecurity, and much more. Cybersecurity remains a priority of several of the panel’s subcommittees, and the committee’s members are working diligently to assess both cyber threats and the costs and benefits of potential responses. The committee continued oversight of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to address major management failures and emphasize the importance of moving forward on long-term solutions for our nation’s nuclear sector. Likewise, the Environment and the Economy subcommittee continues to closely monitor the issues surrounding chemical plant security; the subcommittee also advanced a good-government solution to bring hazardous waste manifests into the 21st century with electronic reporting. Finally, the Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee continues to be at the forefront of the complex issues that surround online privacy and what can be done to protect and inform consumers without stifling the vast potential of the Internet. “Together we have crossed another milestone, wrapping up the first half of 2012 at the same aggressive pace that we have sustained throughout this busy 112th Congress. Our committee has a great deal to be proud of, with a long record of informative hearings, compelling investigations, and legislative accomplishments,” Upton concluded. “We have moved bills through regular order from a subcommittee hearing through passage on the House floor, and we will continue to do so as long as this Congress is in session.” Click here to read the 2nd Quarter Report.
07.12.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Cliff Stearns (R-FL) this week released the text of their draft bill the “No More Solyndras Act.” The legislation is a product of the committee’s investigation into the $535 million U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) loan guarantee to the California solar panel manufacturer that ultimately went bankrupt, costing thousands of jobs and leaving taxpayers on the hook for half a billion dollars. This morning, the Subcommittee on Energy and Power and the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations convened a joint legislative hearing on this draft legislation. Read Upton’s opening statement here. Upon releasing the bill, Upton stated, “Our investigation has uncovered a number of disturbing truths behind DOE’s loan guarantee program, ground zero of the Obama administration’s failed stimulus. Billions of dollars were hastily pushed out the door, with the Obama administration more worried about sending press releases announcing stimulus projects than if the projects were worthy and would create jobs. Sadly, the bankruptcies are starting to pile up. If oversight is done well, it should result in good legislation, and that is what we have in the ‘No More Solyndras Act.’ Our legislative fix will give folks in Michigan the peace of mind that such a disaster like Solyndra will never happen again. In light of the recent string of bankruptcies, Solyndra, Beacon Power, and Abound Solar just last week, our bill takes a stand for American taxpayers, declaring loud and clear that there will be ‘No More Solyndras.’” As the committee’s investigation revealed, the Obama administration put Solyndra’s loan on the fast track despite repeated red flags and warnings from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and DOE officials. When the warnings came to fruition and Solyndra was out of cash in the autumn of 2010, the Obama administration doubled down on its bad bet, restructuring Solyndra’s loan in early 2011 and putting wealthy investors at the front of the line ahead of taxpayers. Upton coauthored this draft legislation to ensure taxpayers are never again stuck paying hundreds of millions of dollars because of the Obama administration’s risky bets. The “No More Solyndras Act” will phase out DOE’s flawed loan guarantee program under Title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and provide taxpayers strong new protections for any pending participants in the program. The bill provides greater loan guarantee transparency by requiring DOE to report to Congress on the decision-making process and details of the loan. The bill also prohibits DOE from restructuring the terms of any guarantee and forbids the subordination of U.S. taxpayers’ dollars to any other investors. For text of the draft Upton-Stearns “No More Solyndras Act,” click HERE.
07.10.2012	Watch Video of Fred's House Floor Speech Here Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today made the following remarks on the House Floor in support of H.R. 6079, the Repeal of Obamacare Act, which fully repeals the President’s healthcare law: Transcript: “House Republicans promised the American people that if granted the majority, we would vote to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. “Let’s face it: Obamacare is nothing like what was promised. Former Speaker Pelosi said we would have to pass the bill to find out what was in it, and be assured, we have found out. Rather than reform health care, this law epitomizes Washington at its very worst: intrusive mandates, higher costs, red tape, unaffordable spending, taxes on employers and families, and control of personal health care decisions by boards, bureaus, and agencies in Washington. “Let's just consider the many broken promises. “President Obama promised that his reforms would lower family premiums by $2,500 by the end of his first term. Yet the cost of an employer-sponsored family plan has increased to $15,000 in 2011. And CBO projects that if we allow the rest of Obamacare’s mandates to kick in, premiums rise further. “The President told us over and over that if you liked your health care plan, you could keep it. Yet the law pushes employers to drop coverage. CBO estimates that up to 20 million American workers will lose their plan under Obamacare. “The President said his law would cost a mere $900 billion – as if spending nearly a $1 trillion on a new program was thrifty. Yet when it’s fully implemented, Obamacare is estimated to cost taxpayers $2.6 trillion over a decade. “The President promised to make Medicare stronger. Instead, Obamacare raided $575 billion from Medicare to pay for new programs and entitlement expansions. “The President pledged that he would not raise taxes for households with incomes under $250,000. Yet Obamacare includes 21 new tax increases that will cost taxpayers roughly $800 billion over the next decade. The IRS will impose new taxes on medical devices, prescription drugs, health coverage, and high-premium health plans. The agency will place new restrictions on health savings accounts and flexible spending accounts. Employers will face a tax for failing to provide health plans approved by HHS and a new surtax on investment. “The President promised American taxpayers they would not be forced to fund abortions and our conscience rights would be protected, yet HHS is moving forward with a mandate that requires religious institutions to violate their principles or pay a steep fine. “Or is the fine on faith going to be considered a tax as well, just like the individual mandate? The Supreme Court made clear that the mandate is a massive new tax – one that will primarily be levied on middle-class households. “Repeal is also the only way to honor and restore the promises the President wisely made but foolishly broke. The Supreme Court rendered its diagnosis, but the American people will be offering a second opinion. For now, we promised the American people that we would work to repeal this terrible law, and that is a promise we are keeping.”
07.09.2012	This afternoon, President Barack Obama signed into law the bipartisan Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Safety and Innovation Act (S.3187), which among other things streamlines the federal approval process for U.S. prescription drugs and medical devices. Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) has led the way in the House for these commonsense reforms, which will enable Michigan manufacturers like Perrigo, Pfizer, and Stryker to better compete with companies overseas, innovate, and create jobs. Reform will also significantly improve patient care by ensuring that lifesaving American-made products are brought to market in a safe and timely manner. “Through this bipartisan legislation, U.S. drug and device manufacturers will soon be able to compete on a level playing field with the rest of the world – that is very good news for jobs, medical innovation, and patient care here in southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “Local employers like Perrigo, Pfizer, and Stryker have long led the world in medical innovation, and will continue to do so through improved predictability, transparency, and efficiency at the FDA. This is an important bipartisan accomplishment, and I congratulate all of my colleagues who helped get the bill across the finish line.” S. 3187 is the product of an agreement reached between the Senate-passed FDA Safety and Innovation Act and Upton’s FDA Reform Act of 2012 (H.R. 5651), which passed the House earlier this year by a vote of 387 to 5 and the House Energy and Commerce Committee by a unanimous vote of 46 to 0. This spring, Upton visited with employees of local medical industry leaders Pfizer and Stryker who have been put at a competitive disadvantage because of current delays and inefficiencies at the FDA. “House passage of the FDA Reform Act of 2012 is a great step for Stryker, the med tech industry, and patients,” said Curt Hartman, Interim CEO and Vice President and CFO, Stryker Corporation. “This legislation, which includes reauthorization of the Medical Device User Free program, should bring greater consistency, predictability and efficiency to the medical device review process at the FDA and help provide more timely access to safe and effective medical devices for patients. Stryker appreciates the strong bipartisan support for this important legislation.” “Pfizer appreciates Fred’s leadership on PDUFA,” said Frank Foley, site leader of Kalamazoo operations for Pfizer, Inc. “This bill is vital to ensure the FDA has the resources it needs to review our products and inspect our manufacturing facilities.” Like H.R. 5651, this bicameral agreement reauthorizes for five years the FDA evaluation and approval processes for prescription drugs and medical devices that are set to expire at the end of September. The bill also improves the evaluation and approval processes for generic drugs and biosimilars, takes steps to prevent drug shortages, and encourages the development of treatment options for children with rare diseases. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), S. 3187 will reduce the federal deficit by $311 million over ten years. “This bipartisan legislation comes at a critical time, ensuring that there is a well-defined pathway for future products that will improve the health of those with diabetes, including 750,000 people with diabetes in Michigan,” said Cathy Coury, Executive Director of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation’s Michigan Great Lakes West Chapter. “We believe this legislation will better enable the FDA to effectively review and approve future products of similar significance in a timely manner.” “Reauthorization is not only critical to the patients of our state, it is vital to Michigan’s economy,” wrote Michigan Governor Rick Snyder in a May 9th letter to Upton. “In order for the United States and the State of Michigan to remain competitive in [the pharmaceutical] industry, we must work to provide a business environment that provides a level of certainty and predictability.”
07.04.2012	“Today, folks here in southwest Michigan and across the country will come together with loved ones in celebration of our nation’s independence. It is an annual reminder of the principles upon which our nation was founded and the sacrifices that have been made to keep us free, safe, and secure. “Two hundred and thirty-six years ago, the Second Continental Congress ratified one of the most important and consequential documents penned in human history: our Declaration of Independence. Since first put to parchment, that immortal preamble has forever resonated in the hearts and minds of men and women everywhere, offering the promise of freedom and justice for all: ‘We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness.’ “While the world is a much different place since the time of our Founding Fathers, the power of their words and the principles for which they fought are absolute and timeless. They are deeply engrained in our American way of life and continue to offer hope to those around the world who struggle under the yoke of tyranny and oppression. “As we celebrate the anniversary of our independence – whether spending time at community parades, watching fireworks, or grilling in the backyard with friends and family – our thoughts and prayers are also with the brave members of our Armed Forces who are deployed throughout the world this holiday. We are so proud of their service and look forward to their safe return home. Just like our nation’s Founders, we will never forget that freedom is only possible through the security brought to us by those who serve. We are forever grateful for the countless sacrifices made by our service members and their families. “Happy birthday, America, and God bless.”
07.02.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) applauded yesterday’s disaster declaration by the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack for southwest Michigan fruit farmers who are facing one of the worst crop losses in decades. A mild winter followed by unseasonably warm temperatures in March caused Michigan fruit trees to bud early, only to be wiped out by typical April freezes. Upton has met with growers from across the district and has received a firsthand look at the devastation wrought on a local farms this spring. The primary natural disaster designation extends to 72 Michigan counties, including Allegan, Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, and Van Buren counties. Ten additional counties, including Calhoun County, were named as contiguous disaster counties. “This announcement will help provide a critical lifeline for Michigan fruit growers who are facing the worst losses in memory,” said Upton. “I applaud both Governor Snyder and Secretary Vilsack for recognizing the urgency of this situation and responding accordingly. Our family farms in southwest Michigan play such an important role in our daily lives and in the local economy, so it is imperative they have the necessary support when disaster strikes. While today’s announcement is an important and welcome step, this historic disaster further underscores the urgency of passing a Farm Bill that accounts for the needs of our area’s specialty crop growers.” Disaster designation requests originate with a state’s governor making a formal request to the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture for a disaster designation. A USDA disaster designation makes farm operators in both primary and contiguous counties eligible to be considered for assistance from the Farm Service Agency (FSA) – such as FSA emergency loans – provided eligibility requirements are met. Farmers in eligible counties have eight months from the date of a Secretarial disaster declaration to apply for low-interest emergency loan assistance. FSA will consider each application on its own merits, taking into account the extent of production losses, security available, and repayment ability. Affected farmers should contact their local FSA office for further information.
06.29.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today joined the House of Representatives in voting to pass a final House-Senate agreement of transportation legislation that supports jobs and the nation’s infrastructure. Upton served as one of the House negotiators of the package, which among other things reauthorizes expiring federal highway and surface transportation programs through September 2014. The bipartisan agreement passed the House by a vote of 373 to 52 and now awaits Senate approval before heading to the President. “This agreement reflects our commitment to jobs, safety, and smaller government. By eliminating bureaucratic red tape and focusing taxpayer dollars on high-priority projects, this agreement will support American jobs and infrastructure projects to improve the safety of our nation’s roads and bridges. What’s more, it includes commonsense reforms to ensure that taxpayer dollars are wisely spent and that critical infrastructure projects are not needlessly delayed by the regulatory process. “This package also includes a number of essential provisions to support our treasured Great Lakes and the local industries that depend upon them. Keeping our commercial and recreational harbors open and operational is essential to local growth, infrastructure development, and job creation here in southwest Michigan. This bill takes a step in the right direction to ensure that funding for vital harbor maintenance and dredging is used for that expressed purpose. The livelihood of thousands of Michigan families and small businesses depend upon our local harbors and deserve the certainty of knowing that these gateways of opportunity will remain open. Additionally, this package takes important steps to stop the voracious Asian carp from devastating our Great Lakes ecosystem, protecting the thousands of jobs and billions of dollars of economic activity these waters support. In addition to ensuring the continuation of critical highway and transportation infrastructure programs, the bicameral agreement includes a number of commonsense reforms to existing federal programs, including: the consolidation or elimination of certain duplicative programs; requiring faster project approval; and streamlining environmental review of the impacts of projects. The package also includes the Stop Invasive Species Act – legislation that Upton has cosponsored – which requires an expedited Army Corps of Engineers study and plan to prevent Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes. Additionally, the agreement expresses the sense of Congress that the administration should require all revenues collected through the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) be fully used for their intended purpose: maintaining our nation’s commercial and recreational harbors. From emergency dredging to maintaining standard operations, keeping southwest Michigan harbors operational has been a top priority for Upton. Upton is also strong supporter of separate legislation – the bipartisan Realize America’s Maritime Promise (RAMP) Act (H.R. 104) – which would require the administration to fully and properly use HMTF funds for harbor maintenance. Among other provisions, the package would prevent interest rates on new Stafford student loans from increasing to 6.8 percent on July 1, 2012. Instead, interest rates for new loan borrowers will be maintained at the lower interest rate of 3.4 percent through June 2013.
06.28.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled on the health care law: “While I certainly disagree with the Supreme Court’s opinion, it does not change the American people’s opinion that the law is unaffordable, unworkable, and still must be repealed. This law was controversial as it was being crafted and it has only grown more unpopular as its reach into individuals’ lives has grown, and threatens to expand further still. “For the past two years, Republicans have undertaken the kind of careful scrutiny of this law that should have occurred long before it was enacted. With each layer of the law we peeled back, we found more evidence that Obamacare does not allow Americans who like their health care coverage to keep it. Instead, it is a law that would increase costs and taxes on individuals, states, and businesses, making it harder to grow our economy. “The stakes could not be higher in states like my home of Michigan, where spending is finally under control and jobs are being created after years of high unemployment – but the positive gains will be short lived if the costly mandates and taxes of Obamacare are allowed to kick in. “We remain committed to reforming our nation’s health care system, and doing so without following the same failed path that brought us to this point of legal confusion, public opposition, and economic uncertainty. One of the mistakes of Obamacare was that it tried to fix every problem in the health care system with one massive new law crafted in Washington. And we ended up with an unpopular and unworkable law because its authors failed to listen to the American people and failed to address the most pressing challenge to our health care system in rising costs. “Governors across the nation have long sounded the alarm on the unfunded mandates in Obamacare and their impact on state budgets and the sustainability of the Medicaid program. Today’s decision on Medicaid acknowledges at least a small measure of restraint on federal power by rejecting the notion that Congress can cut off all Medicaid funds to a state simply because it chooses not to participate a massive expansion of the program it cannot afford. But much more needs to be done to preserve state flexibility and avert the spending explosion.”
06.21.2012	Watch video of Upton's House Floor remarks here Less than two weeks before Independence Day, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today joined the House in passing a bipartisan package of domestic energy production bills that will help reduce energy costs of struggling Michigan families and small businesses, while also spurring job creation and economic growth through the increased production of American energy. The Domestic Energy and Jobs Act (H.R. 4480) passed the House by a vote of 248 to 163 and now awaits consideration in the Senate. “The price of gasoline and the unemployment rate remain far too high, particularly for struggling Michigan families and small businesses,” said Upton. “It is long past time for Washington to give folks the relief and certainty they deserve. While the administration has given much lip service about lowering gas prices and increasing domestic energy production, the record speaks for itself: over the past three years, gas prices have nearly doubled while new federal energy leases have hit a standstill and a train wreck of new regulations has put an unbearable burden on U.S. manufacturers and energy producers. Today’s commonsense legislation takes the necessary steps to expand the production of affordable North American energy, while in the process supporting the creation of countless good-paying jobs.” Among other things, H.R. 4480 seeks to lift the regulatory burden off of American manufacturers and energy producers who have been the target of costly new regulations proposed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by requiring an interagency assessment of the cumulative impact of EPA measures on gas prices, jobs, and the economy. These upcoming measures include Tier 3 gasoline standards for motor vehicles and the imposition of new regulations on U.S. energy refineries. H.R. 4480 would also require any future drawdown of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) to be accompanied by new federal energy leases. The ongoing moratorium on increased domestic energy production has been a major roadblock for states looking to create good-paying jobs and fortify the nation’s energy security. Upton continues to help lead the way in the House for an “all of the above” energy policy that puts a premium on North American energy production – whether it is developing the vast resources we have here at home, promoting the advancement of safe nuclear, or harnessing alternative energy sources. Through the commitment to an “all of the above” energy policy, we can simultaneously create good-paying jobs, reduce our reliance on overseas energy suppliers, and keep energy costs low for Michigan families and small businesses. Bills Included in the Domestic Energy and Jobs Act: Strategic Energy Production Act of 2012, H.R. 4480 (Rep. Cory Gardner, CO-4) The Strategic Energy Production Act of 2012 (H.R. 4480) links tapping the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) to increasing energy production on federal lands. If the President releases oil from the SPR, the Administration will be required to develop a plan to lease more federal lands for exploration and production. Gasoline Regulations Act of 2012, H.R. 4471 (Rep. Ed Whitfield, KY-1) The Gasoline Regulations Act (H.R. 4471) would require an interagency committee to conduct a cumulative analysis on certain EPA rules and actions that impact the price of gasoline and diesel fuels. It will pause the implementation of the Tier 3 fuel standards, refinery New Source Performance Standards, and ozone standards until six months after the report is submitted to Congress, which should provide for a better understanding of the costs and consequences of these rules. Planning for American Energy Act of 2012, H.R.4381 (Rep. Scott Tipton, CO-3) The Planning for American Energy Act of 2012 (H.R. 4381) would require the Secretary of the Interior to establish an all-of-the-above energy program for federal lands by reviewing the nation’s energy needs and then establishing goals for federal land energy production to meet those needs from all energy sources, oil, natural gas, coal and renewables. Providing Leasing Certainty for American Energy Act of 2012, H.R 4382 (Rep. Mike Coffman, CO-6) The Providing Leasing Certainty for American Energy Act of 2012 (H.R. 4382) would: 1) require a minimum annual acreage leasing plan that makes available at least 25 percent of the lands open for leasing each year for which there is interest in development and 2) set firm timelines for the Secretary of the Interior to issue leases and adjudicate lease protests. It would also prohibit the Secretary of the Interior from withdrawing leases and adding additional lease stipulations after they have been sold. Streamlining Permitting of American Energy Act of 2012, H.R. 4383 (Rep. Doug Lamborn, CO-5) The Streamlining Permitting of American Energy Act (H.R. 4383) would ensure a reliable permitting process to increase American energy production. It would remove government roadblocks and bureaucratic red tape that hinder and delay American energy production and American job creation. It streamlines and reforms the process for energy permitting, once a lease is in hand, to encourage the timely development of our federal onshore oil, natural gas, and renewable resources. National Petroleum Reserve Alaska Access Act, H.R. 2150 (Rep. “Doc” Hastings, WA-4) The National Petroleum Reserve Alaska Access Act (H.R. 2150) will create new jobs, support current energy jobs in Alaska, expand American energy production and lower energy costs by ensuring that oil and natural gas resources in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPRA) are developed and transported in a timely, efficient manner. BLM Live Internet Auctions Act, H.R. 2752 (Rep. Bill Johnson, OH-6) The BLM Live Internet Auctions Act (H.R. 2752) gives the Secretary of the Interior the authority to conduct Internet-based auctions for onshore leases to ensure the best return to the Federal taxpayer, reduce fraud, and secure the leasing process.
06.20.2012	Watch video of Upton's House Floor remarks here By a unanimous voice vote, the House of Representatives today passed bipartisan, bicameral legislation (S. 3187) that streamlines the federal approval process for U.S. prescription drugs and medical devices. Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) has led the way in the House for these commonsense reforms, which will enable Michigan manufacturers like Perrigo, Pfizer, and Stryker to better compete with companies overseas, innovate, and create jobs. Reform will also significantly improve patient care by ensuring that lifesaving American-made products are brought to market in a safe and faster manner. S. 3187 is the product of an agreement reached between the Senate-passed FDA Safety and Innovation Act and Upton’s FDA Reform Act of 2012 (H.R. 5651), which recently passed the House by a vote of 387 to 5 and the House Energy and Commerce Committee by a unanimous vote of 46 to 0. This final agreement is expected to reach the President’s desk before Independence Day. “Through this bipartisan legislation, U.S. drug and device manufacturers will soon be able to compete on a level playing field with the rest of the world – that is very good news for jobs, medical innovation, and patient care here in southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “Local employers like Perrigo, Pfizer, and Stryker have long led the world in medical innovation, and will continue to do so through improved predictability, transparency, and efficiency at the FDA. I applaud Democrats and Republicans in both the House and Senate for working closely together throughout this process to get the job done – today we have a bill that will make a real difference in the lives of patients as well as support innovators across the country.” This spring, Upton visited with employees of local medical industry leaders Pfizer and Stryker who have been put at a competitive disadvantage because of current delays and inefficiencies at the FDA. “House passage of the FDA Reform Act of 2012 is a great step for Stryker, the med tech industry, and patients,” said Curt Hartman, Interim CEO and Vice President and CFO, Stryker Corporation. “This legislation, which includes reauthorization of the Medical Device User Free program, should bring greater consistency, predictability and efficiency to the medical device review process at the FDA and help provide more timely access to safe and effective medical devices for patients. Stryker appreciates the strong bipartisan support for this important legislation.” “Pfizer appreciates Fred’s leadership on PDUFA,” said Frank Foley, site leader of Kalamazoo operations for Pfizer, Inc. “This bill is vital to ensure the FDA has the resources it needs to review our products and inspect our manufacturing facilities.” Like H.R. 5651, this bicameral agreement reauthorizes for five years the FDA evaluation and approval processes for prescription drugs and medical devices that are set to expire at the end of September. The bill also improves the evaluation and approval processes for generic drugs and biosimilars, takes steps to prevent drug shortages, and encourages the development of treatment options for children with rare diseases. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), S. 3187 will reduce the federal deficit by $311 million over ten years. “This bipartisan legislation comes at a critical time, ensuring that there is a well-defined pathway for future products that will improve the health of those with diabetes, including 750,000 people with diabetes in Michigan,” said Cathy Coury, Executive Director of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation’s Michigan Great Lakes West Chapter. “We believe this legislation will better enable the FDA to effectively review and approve future products of similar significance in a timely manner.” “Reauthorization is not only critical to the patients of our state, it is vital to Michigan’s economy,” wrote Michigan Governor Rick Snyder in a May 9th letter to Upton. “In order for the United States and the State of Michigan to remain competitive in [the pharmaceutical] industry, we must work to provide a business environment that provides a level of certainty and predictability.”
06.12.2012	This afternoon, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) got a firsthand look of an inspection dig being undertaken by Enbridge Inc. to ensure the integrity of the company’s 6B pipeline, which runs from Griffith, Indiana, to Sarnia, Ontario. The dig is also in preparation of a $1.3-billion construction project proposed by Enbridge to replace over 200 miles of the pipeline, doubling its capacity to half a million barrels a day and improving the line’s safety. Replacing segments of the existing pipeline will begin later this summer with approval of the Michigan Public Service Commission and is estimated to cost some $4 million per mile. Ensuring the safety of our nation’s 2.5 million miles of pipeline infrastructure has been a top priority for Upton as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Along with Michigan colleague John D. Dingell (D-Dearborn), the former Democratic Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Upton is the author of the bipartisan Pipeline Infrastructure and Community Protection Act (H.R. 2937), which ensures vital updates and improvements are made in U.S. pipeline safety. A final agreement on pipeline safety legislation was signed into law by President Obama this past January. “Maintaining the integrity of our nation’s vast pipeline infrastructure is absolutely essential to ensure the safe, affordable delivery of energy to folks here in Michigan and across the country,” said Upton. “We are all too familiar with the unacceptable costs of catastrophe, which is why I worked closely with my Democratic colleague John Dingell to successfully craft and shepherd through major pipeline safety legislation this Congress. We have a tremendous opportunity today to create thousands of good-paying jobs and meet our nation’s growing energy needs through the production of North American energy. These new safety standards will help make that a reality while making certain that the public health and our environment are safeguarded.” Upton’s charge for improved pipeline safety standards followed the July 25, 2010, Enbridge pipeline rupture in Marshall, Michigan, a city east of Upton’s congressional district, which resulted in the spill of 20,000 barrels of oil into the Talmadge Creek, a tributary of the Kalamazoo River. Upon receiving notification of the spill, Upton worked aggressively with local officials and state and federal agencies to mitigate the incident’s impact on public health, property, and the environment.
06.08.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) joined 11 other members of Michigan’s congressional delegation in urging U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Tom Vilsack to issue a disaster declaration for Michigan farmers who are facing one of the worst crop losses in decades. A mild winter followed by unseasonably warm temperatures in March caused Michigan fruit trees to bud early, only to be wiped out by typical April freezes. Two weeks ago, Upton met with dozens of southwest Michigan growers and got a firsthand look at the devastation, which in many cases completely decimated local apple, cherry, juice grape, and peach crops. The bipartisan delegation letter follows a formal request from Michigan Governor Rick Snyder to Secretary Vilsack for a USDA disaster designation that would extend to 72 Michigan counties, including Allegan, Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, and Van Buren counties. The USDA ultimately grants a federal disaster designation request on a county-by-county basis, based on whether the USDA’s Farm Service Agency (FSA) determines that a particular county has met the 30 percent crop loss threshold. If granted a disaster designation, the farmers of that county who personally meet the 30 percent threshold are then eligible for low-interest loans through USDA. The full text of the letter to Secretary Vilsack is below: The Honorable Tom Vilsack Secretary U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Avenue, Southwest Washington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack: We are writing in support of the state of Michigan’s request for federal disaster assistance for farmers in Michigan who are facing significant crop losses due to extreme weather conditions in the winter and spring of 2012. A series of unprecedented weather events impacting the Lower and Upper Peninsulas of Michigan have resulted in the worst fruit crop many farmers have faced in their lifetimes. Seventy-two counties throughout our state experienced severe weather, most notably damaging frost but also excessive snow, blizzards, high winds, hail, tornadoes, flooding, and excessive rain. Estimates indicate that more than 90 percent of Michigan’s apple, cherry, and peach crops have been lost. More than 85 percent of the juice grape crop has been lost, and as much as 10 percent of the asparagus crop has been lost or damaged. We estimate that the economic loss to fruit and asparagus crops alone will exceed $220 million. This drastic reduction in crop yields will pose significant financial hardships for Michigan farmers and their families, as well as the permanent and seasonal workers employed by these operations. Supporting industries such as agricultural manufacturing and processing, chemical and fertilizer retailers, and equipment rental, sales and repair will similarly suffer. A USDA disaster declaration in Michigan will provide farmers the necessary option of applying for emergency loans through the Farm Service Agency. For many farmers, this lifeline will be essential to their ability to meet financial obligations. Emergency loans are vital to farmers who may have no other source of revenue over the next fifteen to eighteen months. We urge your full and expeditious consideration of the state’s request, and look forward to working with the Department in the coming weeks and months to provide much-need relief for struggling Michigan farmers. Sincerely, Representative Dan Benishek Representative Dave Camp Representative Hansen Clarke Representative John Conyers,Jr. Representative John Dingell Representative Bill Huizenga Representative Sander Levin Representative Thaddeus McCotter Representative Candice Miller Representative Mike Rogers Representative Fred Upton Representative Tim Walberg Click here to view the joint letter to Secretary Vilsack
06.07.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) praised today’s House passage of bipartisan legislation to prevent a new 2.3 percent excise tax from being imposed on U.S. sales of medical devices. The tax, which was included in the President’s overreaching healthcare law and is currently scheduled to take effect in 2013, would directly cost the U.S. medical device industry billions of dollars per year – not including costs of compliance – to the detriment of American jobs and medical innovation. Last month, Upton met with employees of Kalamazoo-based job creator and medical device manufacturer Stryker Corporation concerning the harmful impact of the new tax, among other issues including efforts led by Upton to streamline the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) approval process for medical devices. Upton is a cosponsor of the Protect Medical Innovation Act (H.R. 436), which passed the House by a vote of 270 to 146 and now awaits consideration in the Senate. “The administration’s impending tax on medical devices is a ticking time bomb for manufacturing jobs and innovation here in Michigan and around the country,” said Upton. “A new tax is the very last thing Michigan device manufacturers and their thousands of employees need at this time of uncertainty and slow economic growth. The devastating impact can already be felt here in southwest Michigan as local manufacturers prepare to comply with the new tax, dollars that could be better spent on wages, research and development, and investments in life-saving technologies.” “Stryker appreciates House passage of legislation to repeal the medical device tax,” said Curt Hartman, Interim CEO and Vice President & Chief Financial Officer of Stryker. “This tax is anti-competitive and decreases the money available for jobs and innovation.” In November 2011, Stryker formally announced its intention to restructure and reduce its global workforce by approximately 5 percent in anticipation of the new tax. In addition to repealing the medical device tax, H.R. 436 would also allow individuals to annually recoup unused contributions they have made to their flexible spending accounts (FSAs). FSAs allow employees to contribute pre-tax dollars from their paychecks to pay for out-of-pocket healthcare expenses not covered by insurance, such as co-pays and over-the-counter drugs. Under current law, individuals must spend their FSA balance by year’s end or forfeit the unused balance back to their employer. H.R. 436 would allow every employee to make an annual FSA cash out of up to $500, taxed as regular wages. Last week, by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 387 to 5, the House passed Upton’s FDA Reform Act (H.R. 5651) to extend and reform the FDA’s evaluation and approval processes for prescription drugs and medical devices, enabling U.S. companies like Perrigo, Pfizer, and Stryker to bring their breakthrough products to market faster while maintaining the highest levels of patient safety. Under current law, these Michigan employers have been put at a competitive disadvantage with overseas manufacturers who already benefit from a more streamlined approval process. In addition, Upton’s bill also establishes new user fee programs for generic drugs and biosimilars, takes steps to prevent drug shortages, and encourages the development of treatment options for children with rare diseases.
06.01.2012	Today, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) applauded Governor Rick Snyder’s written request to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack for a disaster designation for fruit farmers in southwest Michigan who are facing one of the worst crop losses in decades. A mild winter followed by unseasonably warm temperatures in March caused Michigan fruit trees to bud early, only to be wiped out by typical April freezes. Last week, Upton met with several growers in Berrien County and got a firsthand look at the devastation wrought on a local farms this spring. The Governor’s request extends to 72 Michigan counties, including Allegan, Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, and Van Buren counties. “Today’s action is welcome news for Michigan fruit growers who are facing the worst losses in memory. In fact, the usual Michigan cherry crop yield is 240 million pounds and this year’s freeze wiped out nearly 90 percent of that,” said Upton. “I applaud Governor Snyder for his urgent response to the needs of countless Michigan farmers whose the livelihood hangs in the balance. I am also encouraged by the efforts of the Governor and state legislature to provide short-term relief to our farmers until federal loans are available. Our family farms in southwest Michigan play such an important role in our daily lives and in the local economy, so it is imperative they have the necessary support when disaster strikes. While today’s announcement is an important step, this disaster further underscores the urgency of passing a Farm Bill that accounts for the needs of our area’s specialty crop growers.” Disaster designation requests originate with a state’s governor making a formal request to the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture for a disaster designation. Prior to the governor’s request, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Farm Service Agency (FSA) gathers crop loss data at the local level, compiling a list of counties they believe have met a 30 percent loss threshold. Once the governor receives that information, a request for assistance is sent by the governor to the Secretary of Agriculture. The USDA ultimately grants the disaster designation request on county-by-county basis, based on whether a particular county has met the 30 percent crop loss threshold. If granted, the farmers of that county are then eligible for low-interest loans through USDA.
05.31.2012	A video of Upton’s morning remarks can be viewed here. A video of the full press conference can be viewed here. Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) joined House Republican Leadership this morning to discuss the continued efforts of House Republicans to support American job creation and economic growth. Upton highlighted last evening’s House passage of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Reform Act of 2012 (H.R. 5651), which passed by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 387 to 5. H.R. 5651 will reauthorize and expand the FDA’s user fee programs for medical products and includes major reforms to help U.S. manufacturers bring their life-saving products to patients and healthcare providers faster while maintaining the highest levels of patient safety. Michigan manufacturers like Perrigo, Pfizer, and Stryker have been put a competitive disadvantage because of the lack of predictability in the current FDA evaluation and approval process. H.R. 5651 will help these and other U.S. companies continue to lead the world in medical innovation and job creation. Reform will also significantly improve U.S. patient care by ensuring lifesaving products are brought to market in a timely manner. “Michigan manufacturers have been severely disadvantaged by the lack of predictability in the current FDA approval process – at a cost to jobs, innovation, and patient care,” said Upton. “Michigan employers like Perrigo, Pfizer, and Stryker have long led the world in medical innovation, but that position could be jeopardized if commonsense reforms are not enacted. Through this bipartisan legislation, we put our manufacturers on a level playing field with the rest of the world, allowing them to safely bring their lifesaving products to the doctors and patients who need them. I applaud House Democrats and Republicans for coming together on this issue to get the job done – this is how policymaking should work.” H.R. 5651 reauthorizes for five years the FDA user fee programs for prescription drugs and medical devices – the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) and the Medical Device User Fee Act (MDUFA), respectively – that are set to expire at the end of September. Under these user fee agreements, the FDA collects fees directly from medical manufacturers to fund the agency’s drug and device approval processes. Upton’s bill also establishes new user fee programs for generic drugs and biosimilars, takes steps to prevent drug shortages, and encourages the development of treatment options for children with rare diseases. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), H.R. 5651 would reduce the federal deficit by $370 million over ten years. “House passage of the FDA Reform Act of 2012 is a great step for Stryker, the med tech industry, and patients,” said Curt Hartman, Interim CEO and Vice President and CFO, Stryker Corporation. “This legislation, which includes reauthorization of the Medical Device User Free program, should bring greater consistency, predictability and efficiency to the medical device review process at the FDA and help provide more timely access to safe and effective medical devices for patients. Stryker appreciates the strong bipartisan support for this important legislation.” “Pfizer appreciates Fred’s leadership on PDUFA,” said Frank Foley, site leader of Kalamazoo operations for Pfizer, Inc. “This bill is vital to ensure the FDA has the resources it needs to review our products and inspect our manufacturing facilities.” “This bipartisan legislation comes at a critical time, ensuring that there is a well-defined pathway for future products that will improve the health of those with diabetes, including 750,000 people with diabetes in Michigan,” said Cathy Coury, Executive Director of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation’s Michigan Great Lakes West Chapter, upon passage of the bill. “We believe this legislation will better enable the FDA to effectively review and approve future products of similar significance in a timely manner.” “Reauthorization is not only critical to the patients of our state, it is vital to Michigan’s economy,” wrote Michigan Governor Rick Snyder in a May 9th letter to Upton concerning PDUFA. “In order for the United States and the State of Michigan to remain competitive in [the pharmaceutical] industry, we must work to provide a business environment that provides a level of certainty and predictability.”
05.30.2012	In an act of overwhelming bipartisanship, the House of Representatives today passed legislation authored by Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) that reauthorizes and expands the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) user fee programs for medical products. The FDA Reform Act of 2012 (H.R. 5651) includes major reforms to the FDA’s current evaluation and approval processes for prescription drugs and medical devices, enabling U.S. companies to bring their breakthrough products to market faster while maintaining the highest levels of patient safety. Earlier this month, Upton visited with employees of local medical industry leaders Pfizer and Stryker, who will benefit from a more efficient, transparent, and consistent FDA. Under current law, U.S. companies have been put at a competitive disadvantage with overseas manufacturers who already benefit from a more streamlined approval process. Reform will also significantly improve U.S. patient care by ensuring lifesaving products are brought to market in a timely manner. H.R. 5651 passed the House by a vote of 387 to 5, having recently passed the House Energy and Commerce Committee by a unanimous vote of 46 to 0. Upton expects a final bill to reach the President’s desk by early summer. “Michigan manufacturers have been severely disadvantaged by the lack of predictability in the current FDA approval process – at a cost to jobs, innovation, and patient care,” said Upton. “Michigan employers like Perrigo, Pfizer, and Stryker have long led the world in medical innovation, but that position could be jeopardized if commonsense reforms are not enacted. Through this bipartisan legislation, we put our manufacturers on a level playing field with the rest of the world, allowing them to safely bring their lifesaving products to the doctors and patients who need them. I applaud House Democrats and Republicans for coming together on this issue to get the job done – this is how policymaking should work.” H.R. 5651 reauthorizes for five years the FDA user fee programs for prescription drugs and medical devices – the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) and the Medical Device User Fee Act (MDUFA), respectively – that are set to expire at the end of September. Under these user fee agreements, the FDA collects fees directly from medical manufacturers to fund the agency’s drug and device approval processes. Upton’s bill also establishes new user fee programs for generic drugs and biosimilars, takes steps to prevent drug shortages, and encourages the development of treatment options for children with rare diseases. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), H.R. 5651 would reduce the federal deficit by $370 million over ten years. “Pfizer appreciates Fred’s leadership on PDUFA,” said Frank Foley, site leader of Kalamazoo operations for Pfizer, Inc. “This bill is vital to ensure the FDA has the resources it needs to review our products and inspect our manufacturing facilities.” “This bipartisan legislation comes at a critical time, ensuring that there is a well-defined pathway for future products that will improve the health of those with diabetes, including 750,000 people with diabetes in Michigan,” said Cathy Coury, Executive Director of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation’s Michigan Great Lakes West Chapter, upon passage of the bill. “We believe this legislation will better enable the FDA to effectively review and approve future products of similar significance in a timely manner.” “Reauthorization is not only critical to the patients of our state, it is vital to Michigan’s economy,” wrote Michigan Governor Rick Snyder in a May 9th letter to Upton concerning PDUFA. “In order for the United States and the State of Michigan to remain competitive in [the pharmaceutical] industry, we must work to provide a business environment that provides a level of certainty and predictability.”
05.25.2012	By Rep. Fred Upton - In 1868, three years after the last shots were fired in the American Civil War, a proclamation was issued calling for a day of remembrance in honor of the Union soldiers who gave their lives in that conflict. After World War I, that annual observance was expanded to pay tribute to all of the brave men and women of our Armed Forces who have made the ultimate sacrifice. This Memorial Day, we come together in remembrance of those of generations past and present who died while serving our great nation. Not only do we remember their courageous service and countless sacrifices, but all the things for which they so valiantly fought. As we join with loved ones for parades, festivals, and backyard barbecues this weekend, we remember the hundreds of thousands of American soldiers who have given their lives in combat and their individual acts of bravery. We also continue to keep in mind the sacrifices being made by our troops who are in harm’s way today and look forward to their safe return home. Like those who preceded them, today’s soldiers and their families have given so much for our country and deserve the support and resources to succeed back here at home. We must never forget that for every monument we see, for every flag on a grave, that there is an important story to tell. From generation to generation, the people who have fought for our country were not only soldiers – they were fathers and mothers, husbands and wives, sisters and brothers, sons and daughters. They were seemingly ordinary Americans who fought for the future of their country, for us, and for one another. This Monday, we pay our respects to the many generations of heroes who sacrificed their tomorrows so that we may enjoy our freedoms today. We are all so proud of their service and forever grateful for their sacrifice. We are truly the land of the free because of our brave.
05.23.2012	This morning, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) got a firsthand look at the devastation wrought on southwest Michigan fruit farmers by unseasonably warm temperatures this March followed by April freezes. Upton toured three Berrien County farms to survey the recent damage to local fruit crops – including apples, cherries, grapes, and peaches – which in many cases have been completely decimated. Following the tours, Upton took part in a roundtable discussion with several area farmers concerning the major challenges now facing Michigan growers. “The recent damage has been truly devastating for our local farmers who depend on these crops for their livelihood,” said Upton. “It is absolutely essential that our farmers have the resources necessary to make it through this season, which by all accounts is one of the very worst in memory. Farming is not only one of our largest industries here in southwest Michigan, it is a way of life that supports countless jobs and ensures a reliable supply of locally grown food. The devastation caused by this spring underscores the urgency to overhaul many programs in the upcoming Farm Bill, including crop insurance and disaster assistance, which are of particular importance to our specialty crop growers here in southwest Michigan.” “This type of situation is unprecedented. No one remembers a loss like we’ve had this year,” said Rodney Winkel, whose Watervliet farm Upton visited this morning. “Fred has always been very receptive. He understands the challenges facing local agriculture and the variability that comes with it, especially for these specialty crops.”
05.21.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) was honored this morning by the Kalamazoo Regional Chamber of Commerce for his continued leadership in standing up for Michigan businesses. Kalamazoo Chamber of Commerce President and CEO Steward Sandstrom presented Upton with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award for his strong support of a pro-growth, pro-jobs legislative agenda in the first session of the 112th Congress. Among other issues, Upton was recognized for his support for an “all of the above” energy policy that puts a premium on North American energy production; efforts to protect local businesses from costly new regulations and mandates, including under the President’s controversial healthcare law; and support for new trade agreements that benefit Michigan manufacturers and farmers. “Congressman Upton has a proven track-record of job-creation and standing up for small businesses,” said Steward Sandstrom, CCE, president and CEO of the Kalamazoo Regional Chamber of Commerce. “It is an honor to present him with this prestigious award to recognize his steadfast commitment to removing the unnecessary burdens and obstacles to growth.” “Small businesses are leading the way for job creation, innovation, and growth here in Southwest Michigan and across the country,” said Upton. “From the family-owned farm to our area’s largest manufacturers, our employers are ready to grow and hire, they just need the certainty and opportunity to do so. Rather than burdening our job creators with higher costs and new regulations, it is time to let them do what they do best and accelerate our economic recovery.” The Chamber annually awards the Spirit of Enterprise Award to Members of Congress based on key business issues outlined in its annual publication How They Voted. Upton scored 100 percent with the Chamber last year and holds a 93 percent cumulative ranking for his tenure in Congress. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses and organizations of every size, sector, and region. The Kalamazoo Regional Chamber of Commerce is the largest business organization in Kalamazoo County, with nearly 1,800 member companies that employ close to 70,000 people.
05.17.2012	In the face of near-record gas prices, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today joined members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee in passing bipartisan legislation to ease the costs at the pump for struggling families and businesses. The Gasoline Regulations Act of 2012 (H.R. 4471) requires an interagency assessment of the cumulative impacts of upcoming Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) measures that affect gas prices, jobs, and the economy. The Strategic Energy Production Act of 2012 (H.R. 4480) would require any future drawdown of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) to be accompanied by new federal oil leases. H.R. 4471 and H.R. 4480 now await consideration before the full House. “Michigan families and small businesses have struggled long enough without the added cost of even higher gas and energy prices – they are ready for commonsense solutions to ease the pain at the pump and get our economy moving again,” said Upton. “While the administration has given much lip service about lowering gas prices and increasing American energy production, their actions tell a much different story. The record speaks for itself: over the past three years, gas prices have nearly doubled while new federal energy leases have hit a standstill and a train wreck of new regulations has put an unbearable burden on U.S. manufacturers and energy producers. As an issue critical to jobs and the budgets of Michigan families, it is long past time for a renewed commitment to North American energy production and sensible regulation.” H.R. 4471 seeks to lift the regulatory burden off of American manufacturers and energy producers who have been the target of costly new regulations proposed by the EPA. These upcoming measures include Tier 3 gasoline standards for motor vehicles and the imposition of new regulations on U.S. energy refineries. H.R. 4480 addresses the administration’s reluctance to issue new federal energy leases, while at the same time tapping the SPR in an attempt to bring down gas prices. The ongoing moratorium on increased domestic energy production has been a major roadblock for states looking to create good-paying jobs and fortify the nation’s energy security. Upton continues to help lead the way in the House for an “all of the above” energy policy that puts a premium on North American energy production – whether it is developing the vast resources we have here at home, promoting the advancement of safe nuclear, or harnessing alternative energy sources. Through the commitment to an “all of the above” energy policy, we can simultaneously create good-paying jobs, reduce our reliance on overseas energy suppliers, and keep energy costs low for Michigan families and small businesses.
05.10.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement in support of today’s Energy and Commerce Committee passage of the bipartisan Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Reform Act of 2012 (H.R. 5651). The legislation reauthorizes FDA user fee programs for prescription drugs and medical devices – the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) and the Medical Device User Fee Act (MDUFA) – that are set to expire in September. The bill also establishes user fee programs for generic drugs and biosimilars, and reforms the FDA’s evaluation and approval process for medical products. Reauthorization and FDA reform will enable U.S. manufacturers to get their breakthrough products to market faster while maintaining the highest levels of patient safety. Last week, Upton visited with employees of local medical industry leaders Pfizer and Stryker, who will benefit from a more efficient, transparent, and consistent FDA. Apart from U.S. jobs and global competitiveness, reform will significantly improve patient care by ensuring lifesaving products are brought to market in a timely manner. H.R. 5651 passed full committee by a unanimous vote of 46 to 0 and now awaits consideration before the full House. “The medical device and drug industries employ thousands here in Michigan – jobs that are now being threatened by the lack of predictability in the FDA approval process,” said Upton. “A slow and uncertain approval process is detrimental to American jobs and competitiveness, putting U.S. companies like Perrigo, Pfizer, and Stryker at a severe disadvantage with foreign competitors. The United States has long been the global leader in medical innovation, but that position could soon be jeopardized if reforms are not enacted. What’s more, ongoing delays at the FDA have come at a serious cost to American patients whose lives depend upon the availability of these new drugs and medical technologies. Today’s vote demonstrates that the best policymaking gets done when both sides of the aisle come together and focus on the issues that matter.” “Pfizer appreciates Fred’s leadership on PDUFA,” said Frank Foley, site leader of Kalamazoo operations for Pfizer, Inc. “This bill is vital to ensure the FDA has the resources it needs to review our products and inspect our manufacturing facilities.” “Your bipartisan legislation comes at a critical time, ensuring that there is a well-defined pathway for future products that will improve the health of those with diabetes, including 750,000 people with diabetes in Michigan,” said Cathy Coury, Executive Director of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation’s Michigan Great Lakes West Chapter, upon passage of the bill. “We believe your legislation will better enable the FDA to effectively review and approve future products of similar significance in a timely manner.” “Reauthorization is not only critical to the patients of our state, it is vital to Michigan’s economy,” wrote Michigan Governor Rick Snyder in a May 9th letter to Upton concerning PDUFA. “In order for the United States and the State of Michigan to remain competitive in [the pharmaceutical] industry, we must work to provide a business environment that provides a level of certainty and predictability.”
04.25.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) issued the following statement today after House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) named him one of 33 House Members to negotiate with the Senate on the federal highway bill. Last week, Upton joined his House colleagues in passing a bipartisan extension of federal surface transportation programs (H.R. 4348) that would last through September. The House extension, which recently passed by a bipartisan margin of greater than two-to-one, would provide for approval of the Keystone XL pipeline, giving the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) 30 days to approve the project. H.R. 4348 would also ensure vital harbor maintenance by requiring all revenues collected through the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) be fully used for their intended purpose. From emergency dredging to maintaining standard operations, keeping southwest Michigan harbors open for business has been a top priority for Upton. “Folks in Michigan deserve a national energy policy that helps create jobs and lower the price at the pump through projects such as the Keystone XL pipeline. Through a renewed commitment to North American energy production, we can take our economic recovery from the county road to the interstate,” said Upton. “Maintaining our commercial and recreational harbors is also essential to local growth, infrastructure development, and countless jobs here in southwest Michigan. The Great Lakes are not only our most treasured natural resource; they are our strongest economic asset. The livelihood of thousands of Michigan families and businesses depend upon our harbors and deserve the certainty of knowing that these gateways of opportunity will remain operational and open for business.” A champion of an “all of the above” energy policy, Upton has been a leading supporter of the 1,700-mile pipeline extension, which would transport energy resources from Canada to refineries in the United States. Construction of the Keystone project is estimated to create tens of thousands of U.S. jobs and reduce America’s dependence on overseas suppliers by carrying nearly 1 million barrels of North American oil to U.S. markets per day. The project has been repeatedly approved by the House with strong bipartisan support, both as a stand-alone provision and as part of broader legislation. Maintaining southwest Michigan harbors has been a top priority for Upton. Upton is also a strong supporter of the bipartisan Realize America’s Maritime Promise (RAMP) Act (H.R. 104), which would ensure that all federal revenues currently being collected for harbor maintenance are fully used. This past winter, Upton worked with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to secure emergency funding to dredge the St. Joseph harbor, which had been closed to commercial traffic due to severe shoaling.
04.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) hailed this week’s House passage of legislation that would ensure future funding for vital harbor maintenance, keeping harbors throughout southwest Michigan and the Great Lakes open for business. The commonsense provision, which was part of the short-term highway bill (H.R. 4348), guarantees that all funding in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) be fully used for its intended purpose of harbor maintenance. These revenues are already collected through the federal Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) that is imposed on commercial shippers for the purpose of maintaining our nation’s harbors. The fund has been left with a surplus in recent years as a budgetary gimmick, jeopardizing the operating capability of the region’s harbors. “Ensuring our harbors remain open and ready for business is essential to job creation and growth here in southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “Rather than denying our local harbors these vital dredging dollars – money that is already paid into the system through harbor user fees – we must see to it that our harbors remain bastions of economic growth.” Keeping the St. Joseph harbor open to commercial traffic has long been a top priority for Upton as our Great Lakes harbors are essential to economic growth, infrastructure development, and countless local jobs. From emergency dredging to maintaining standard operations, Upton has fought to keep these vital resources open. Upton is a strong supporter of the bipartisan Realize America’s Maritime Promise (RAMP) Act (H.R. 104), which likewise would ensure that all federal revenues currently being collected for harbor maintenance are fully used and not left unspent as a budgetary offset. This past winter, Upton worked with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to secure emergency funding to dredge the St. Joseph harbor, which had been closed to commercial traffic due to serve shoaling. The timeline below provides an overview of Upton’s major actions this Congress to support the St. Joseph harbor: February 18, 2011 – Upton becomes early cosponsor of H.R. 104, the bipartisan Realize America’s Maritime Promise (RAMP) Act April 1, 2011 – Upton signs letter to House Budget Committee, requesting that all revenues derived from the Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) be apportioned for harbor maintenance May 19, 2011 – Upton joins Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI) in leading bipartisan letter to House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee requesting action on the misuse of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) Here for release December 2011 – St. Joseph Harbor becomes inaccessible to commercial vessels due to severe shoaling in the outer harbor. Upton works with U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, area dock owners, and local officials to reopen the harbor December 11, 2011 – Upton signs letter to Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works at the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers requesting that the HMTF be fully utilized in the President’s budget for Fiscal Year 2013 December 20, 2011 – Upton joins U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to announce $100,000 in emergency funding to dredge the St. Joseph Harbor Here for release and story on WSBT January 9, 2012 – Upton holds press conference at local Dock 63 in St. Joseph to highlight importance of open harbors to local economy, underscore importance of passing the RAMP Act Here for release February 8, 2012 – Upton welcomes news of $693,000 in U.S. Army Corps of Engineers funding for dredging and maintenance of the St. Joseph harbor for Fiscal Year 2012 Here for release April 18, 2012 – Upton hails successful inclusion of RAMP Act provisions in short-term surface transportation bill (H.R. 4348) Here for release and video of Upton Floor speech
04.19.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) voted today to provide tax relief for Michigan small businesses through the Small Business Tax Cut Act (H.R. 9). The temporary tax cut proposal would reduce taxable income on businesses with fewer than 500 employees by 20 percent in 2012. This one-time 20 percent cut would help more than 20 million American small businesses grow and create jobs. Small businesses represent over 90 percent of all Michigan employers and employ over half of the state’s private-sector workforce. H.R. 9 passed the House this afternoon by a vote of 235 to 173 and now heads to the Senate for consideration. “Michigan small business owners are on the front lines of our state’s recovery, leading the way for job creation and economic growth,” said Upton. “Rather than saddle our job creators with costly new regulations and higher taxes, we should be incentivizing them to expand their operations and create jobs here at home. After the challenges of the past three years, it is time to give them the relief and certainty they deserve.”
04.18.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today praised provisions of H.R. 4348 – a short-term extension of federal surface transportation programs – that provide a path forward for approval of the Keystone XL pipeline project as well as ensure future funding for vital harbor maintenance in southwest Michigan. Specifically, the extension would give the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) 30 days to approve the Keystone pipeline and would guarantee that all revenues collected through the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) be fully used for their intended purpose of harbor maintenance. H.R. 4348, which will extend federal highway and rail programs through September, passed the House this afternoon by a bipartisan vote of 293 to 127 and now awaits consideration in the Senate. “As a jobs bill, this goes a long way to provide Michigan families and businesses with the long-term certainty they deserve. It is not only a matter of common sense, it is the right thing to do,” said Upton. “Ensuring our harbors remain open and ready for business is essential to job creation and growth in southwest Michigan. Rather than denying our local harbors these vital dredging dollars – money that is already paid into the system through harbor user fees – we must see to it that our harbors remain bastions of economic growth. As a means of creating jobs and reducing energy prices for folks in Michigan, there is no better opportunity today than the shovel-ready Keystone pipeline project. It is time to stop saying ‘no’ to North American energy and to begin saying ‘yes’ to a pro-growth, pro-jobs energy policy.” Upton continues to lead the way in the House of Representatives for an “all of the above” energy strategy that encourages North American energy production, creates jobs, and reduces energy costs for struggling Michigan families and businesses. Upton is a leading supporter of the proposed 1,700-mile expansion of the Keystone XL pipeline, which would transport vital energy resources from Alberta, Canada to refineries here in the United States. Construction of the Keystone project is estimated to create tens of thousands of U.S. jobs and reduce America’s dependence on overseas oil by nearly 1 million barrels per day. Upton is a longtime supporter of local harbor maintenance and a cosponsor of the bipartisan Realize America’s Maritime Promise (RAMP) Act (H.R. 104) to ensure that all federal funding is fully used for harbor maintenance and not left unspent as a budgetary offset. Last year, Upton was also a signatory of a letter to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requesting that the RAMP Act be included in the administration’s budget for Fiscal Year 2013.
04.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) gave the following tribute in recognition of Baylor University women’s basketball forward and Benton Harbor native Destiny Williams. The Baylor Lady Bears are the recent champions of the 2012 NCAA Women’s Division I Basketball Tournament. A graduate of Benton Harbor High School, Williams helped lead the Lady Tigers to their first ever state basketball championship in 2009. Upton made his tribute in the Congressional Record on April 16, 2012. The full text of Upton’s remarks follows below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Benton Harbor’s Destiny Williams of the Lady Bears of Baylor University on her team’s victory in the NCAA women’s basketball championship. She is an outstanding young woman who helped lead her team to a perfect season, a rare and timeless accomplishment. Our entire community could not be more proud of Destiny and the remarkable basketball career she has made for herself. This is only the second time her team has won the championship and is a testament to her great success. Winning a national championship is something that will last a lifetime. It is a remarkable achievement that few athletes ever experience, and is a legacy that will live with Destiny and the Lady Bears forever. Destiny knows that hard work, discipline, and teamwork helped her team win this championship. These same qualities brought a big 2009 victory to the Benton Harbor Lady Tigers in the state championship game. Nobody outworked the Lady Bears and nobody could beat them in the tournament or the regular season. Ending their perfect season with an NCAA championship speaks to Destiny’s abilities as a leader and team player. Destiny’s 12 points and 6 rebounds in the championship game helped her team to victory. She is such an inspiration for young women back home and we are all so eager to see what the future holds in store for our Lady Tiger, now Lady Bear. On behalf of all the residents of southwest Michigan, congratulations again to Destiny Williams. You make all of us here in Michigan very proud.
04.17.2012	This morning, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) joined members of the Energy and Commerce’s Subcommittee on Energy and Power in passing the “Gasoline Regulations Act” and the “Strategic Energy Production Act,” draft legislation to lower gas prices and help create American jobs. “Struggling Michigan families and small businesses are desperate for relief at the pump,” said Upton. “Many factors impact the price per gallon of gasoline, including global events that are not easily controlled by Congress. But some factors are squarely within our control, and we owe it to the American people to do something about them. This includes increasing domestic oil production and cutting red tape. That is precisely what the Strategic Energy Production Act and the Gasoline Regulations Act will help accomplish.” Gas prices are affected by the lack of domestic oil production. The first draft bill, the Strategic Energy Production Act, requires that any future drawdown of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) must be accompanied by new federal oil leases. Many energy-rich states want to be a bigger contributor to the nation’s affordable energy needs, while creating thousands of high-paying energy industry jobs in the process. Federal reluctance to issue energy leases often stands in the way and this bill helps eliminate this roadblock for inland and coastal states that want to be a part of the solution by producing more domestic oil. The second draft bill, Gasoline Regulations Act, requires that the cumulative impact of the upcoming EPA rules on refineries be analyzed before they go into effect. This includes EPA’s costly global warming agenda as well as the Tier 3 gasoline regulations that may impact future prices at the pump. Given the recent announcements of several refinery closures, and a 2011 Department of Energy finding that regulations played a role in 66 refinery closures since 1990, the study would also look at the impact of new regulations on jobs and domestic refining capacity.
04.16.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Delivering the Weekly Republican Address this past weekend, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) outlines next steps in the House of Representatives’ efforts to implement an “all of the above” energy policy to address high gas prices and help create jobs. Download audio and video of the address here. “Hey, I’m Fred Upton. I proudly represent Southwest Michigan in the U.S. House of Representatives, where I serve as chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “Our committee oversees national energy policy, a topic on the minds of millions of Americans grappling with high gasoline prices. “Vice President Biden recently said that ‘our energy policy’s the best it’s ever been.’ But the facts say otherwise. Last year we produced 100 million barrels less on federal lands than we did the year before. The president rejected the Keystone XL pipeline, which would have decreased our dependence on oil from unstable regions of the world. And heavy-handed federal agencies are adding new layers of regulations on the energy sector, pushing prices only higher. “In many ways this administration’s policies are moving us backwards, and making gas prices even worse. “For families and small businesses here in Michigan and around the country, higher energy prices have real consequences. Everything from their daily commute to the grocery bill is getting more expensive. And higher energy prices mean fewer jobs. “In a few days, our committee will consider two bills that are part of our American Energy Initiative, a bipartisan alternative to this administration’s failed energy policy. “In the House, Republicans have already passed a number of common-sense bills to address rising energy prices and create the jobs that we need. So far, these bills are being blocked by the Democratic-controlled Senate, but we’re not going to stop until they start listening to the American people. “I recently toured a Michigan oil refinery where I heard firsthand how layers of red tape are making it harder and more expensive to refine and sell fuel here in America. “The first of our committee’s measures pushes the pause button on costly new regs affecting refineries until we study them all to determine how much they’re driving up the price at the pump. “Cutting through the red tape is part of the equation, but we have to address supply. President Obama tapped into our emergency oil supply – known as the Strategic Petroleum Reserve – last year, and he’s thinking about doing it again. But that is not a real solution to rising gas prices. If we deplete our reserves, it indeed is a real threat to our energy security. “The second bill we’ll soon consider says that if the president releases oil from our emergency reserves, he must open up more federal land for energy development. “Energy could be a great American success story. We are a land of abundant resources and unparalleled human creativity. Technological breakthroughs are helping us unlock vast energy resources that were previously inaccessible – and we’re doing it in an environmentally safe way. “Today we’re knocking at the door of a brighter energy future; one that promises abundant, secure, and cheaper North American supplies, as long as Washington doesn’t create artificial obstacles. That is what Republicans are working toward, and we invite the president to join us. If he won't lead, we will. “Affordable energy is essential to job creation and economic recovery. We need it to fuel our vehicles, power our homes, and rev up our economic engine. The American Energy Initiative captures that spirit of optimism. It’s a better solution to power our future. “Thanks for listening, and have a great weekend.”
04.11.2012	U.S. Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) visited Delta Industrial Valves, Inc. of Niles this morning to highlight the area manufacturer’s continued growth as well as the importance of adopting a national energy policy, including approval of the proposed Keystone XL pipeline project. Started in 1987, Delta Industrial Valves manufactures severe service valves for the mining, oil sands, pulp and paper, power, and iron and steel industries. Under new ownership since 2003, the company has grown from 15 to 62 employees, and in 2011, moved from a 22,000 square foot manufacturing plant to its current 90,000 square foot facility. Delta Industrial Valves exports roughly 75 percent of its product to countries outside the United States and forecasts significant growth in sales and hiring over the next five years, especially if Keystone is approved. “The continued success of local manufacturers like Delta Industrial Valves underscores the urgency of adopting a pro-growth energy policy that emphasizes increased production and job creation,” said Upton. “Particularly as states like Michigan continue to get back on their feet, we should be supporting policies that encourage growth and lessen the burden on struggling families and small businesses. For local jobs and energy security, approval of the Keystone pipeline should be a no-brainer.” Delta Industrial Valves would benefit from the approval of the proposed 1,700-mile expansion of the Keystone XL pipeline, which would transport vital energy resources from Alberta, Canada to refineries here in the United States. Upton is a leading supporter of the Keystone project, construction of which is estimated to create tens of thousands of U.S. jobs and reduce America’s dependence on overseas oil by nearly 1 million barrels per day. Delta has expressed concerns that its market in Canada would be severely diminished should Keystone not be approved and the Canadian oil is sent to China. While Delta valves would not be used in the Keystone pipeline itself, they are used in the Canadian oil extracting plants and the refineries where the oil would end up. “Delta Industrial Valves is pleased to be working with Congressman Upton and others at both the federal and state levels on the critical issue of the Keystone pipeline,” said Keith Stelter, president and co-owner of Delta Industrial Valves. “Not only does our Michigan-based company recognize and enjoy significant business opportunities from ‘US friendly’ oil producers in Canada, we have been able to increase the amount of business we give to our US-based suppliers and vendors. In fact, we have become the largest customer for several local companies who provide us with both materials and services. Years ago, the Chinese were allowed to purchase several of the largest mining entities in Eastern Canada, which not only took the raw materials from those mines off of the open market, it took away opportunities from American and Canadian suppliers. If the same thing happens with the oil from Canada, our national security will be hurt by our continued reliance on oil imports from unfriendly nations and the chances of environmental damage will actually increase because the oil will be transported daily to China via oil tankers. We can only hope that the pipeline project will be approved in the very near future so that companies like Delta Industrial can continue to add jobs and strength the US economy.” Later in the day, Upton joined Congressman Andy Harris (R-MD) in touring Marathon Petroleum’s new Detroit Heavy Oil Upgrade Project to learn about the jobs created during this construction project and the potential for expanding U.S. refining of Canadian oil sands. Marathon Petroleum is investing $2.2 billion to expand the refinery’s ability to process heavier crude oils, targeting the growing supply of secure Canadian energy by adding to its facility the equipment needed to process this abundant resource. Upton continues to push for an “all of the above” energy policy that puts a premium on North American energy production – whether it is developing the vast resources we have here at home, promoting the advancement of safe nuclear, or harnessing alternative energy sources. Through the commitment to an “all of the above” energy policy, we can simultaneously create good-paying jobs, reduce our reliance on overseas energy suppliers, and keep energy costs low for Michigan families and small businesses.
04.10.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today joined leaders from Western Michigan University (WMU), Kalamazoo Valley Community College (KVCC), and Kellogg Community College (KCC) in announcing that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will locate a Vet Success on Campus program in southwest Michigan. Jointly hosted by the three schools – which now serve about 1,000 veterans – the Vet Success program will provide support for student veterans transitioning from active duty service to campus life, ensuring they are prepared for the future and have full access to the benefits for which they are eligible. Upton worked with the schools in obtaining a waiver from the VA, which allowed WMU, KVCC, and KCC to file a joint application for the program. "We owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to the brave men and women of our armed forces. They have sacrificed so much and deserve all the resources to succeed back here at home," said Upton. "The Vet Success program will be a great resource for our area's returning student veterans who are transitioning from active duty to life on campus. I applaud the continued leadership of Western Michigan, Kalamazoo Valley, and Kellogg Community College in meeting the needs of those students who have so honorably answered their nation's call to duty." The Vet Success on Campus program, which was launched in mid-2009 as a pilot project, supplies campus sites with an experienced, full-time VA vocational counselor and a part-time outreach professional to assist eligible veterans and their families as they access transition-support services, educational benefits, vocational rehabilitation and employment services, disability compensation, life insurance, home loan guarantees, job placement, and healthcare benefits. Working with existing personnel who already focus on veteran services on the three campuses, the Vet Success personnel will focus on enhancing service to veterans as they transition from combat to college life, something all three schools have already established as a priority. "We're enormously grateful to Congressman Upton for working so hard to make these new resources for our veterans a reality," said WMU President John M. Dunn. "He recognized that as higher education partners in Battle Creek and Kalamazoo, our three schools have established a wonderful working relationship that can be leveraged to ensure those who have served our nation are able to take advantage of the benefits they have earned to achieve the success they deserve." While Michigan has roughly 700,000 veterans, the 11th largest veteran population in the United States, it lags far behind in terms of the number of vets who use their educational and vocational training benefits. According to the VA, support services through Vet Success are critically needed to serve younger veterans who, because they have completed multiple tours of duty, will need more support than earlier generations of veterans. "We are dedicated to assisting all students, including our veterans, in achieving their full potential," said Kalamazoo Valley President Marilyn Schlack. "At a time when we need it the most, this new program will allow us to build upon the meaningful assistance we already offer our student veterans and their families." All three presidents note the natural fit the Kalamazoo-Battle Creek area is for establishing a Vet Success on Campus program. In addition to a sizeable student veteran population, the area is the site of the Battle Creek VA Medical Center. "One of the goals of this program is to make it simple," said Dr. Dennis Bona, president of Kellogg Community College. "The concept of 'one stop' for veterans will hopefully minimize the red tape and confusion for veterans and get them the services they seek without the normal hassle of government programs." WMU, KVCC, and KCC have all been singled out repeatedly by G.I. Jobs magazine as "military friendly schools." Additionally, WMU has been named by Military Times EDGE magazine as one of the top 50 "Best for Vets" schools in the nation in each of the past two years. WMU and KVCC both are home to longtime chapters of the Student Veterans of America Association.
03.29.2012	Today, Congressman Upton (R- St. Joseph) voted in support of the House budget proposal (H.Con.Res. 112) for Fiscal Year 2013. The resolution passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 228 to 191 and now awaits consideration in the Senate, which has failed to adopt a budget for over 1000 days. Yesterday, by a bipartisan vote of 414 to 0, the House voted unanimously to reject the President’s $3.8 trillion budget. “The House Republican budget takes the responsible and necessary steps to put our nation’s fiscal house back in order through real cuts and long term reforms,” stated Upton. “Families in southwest Michigan are already making tough choices with their own budgets – it is time for the federal government to do the same. We cannot afford to get by spending trillions we do not have and passing that debt along to future generations.” Through a number of provisions the House budget would also reform the broken tax code to make it simple, fair, and competitive; put the federal government back on the path to a balanced budget; prevent deep and indiscriminate cuts to the national defense; and protect and strengthen Medicare for current retirees and future generations.
03.26.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today announced that Jeffrey Christensen of Augusta and Chloe Hurst of Schoolcraft have been accepted to attend the United States Air Force Academy. Upton, who recommended Mr. Christensen and Ms. Hurst for selection to the prestigious service academy, personally congratulated Jeffrey and Chloe on their appointments. Jeffrey is currently a senior at Gull Lake High School and Chloe is a senior at Portage Northern High School. “I am thrilled to announce the appointments of Jeffrey and Chloe to the United States Air Force Academy,” said Upton. “These remarkable students have excelled both in and out of the classroom. They have successfully undergone a rigorous selection process, athletically and academically, and our entire community should be proud of their achievements. These exemplary individuals represent the very best that Michigan has to offer. I encourage local students who aspire to follow in Jeffrey and Chloe’s footsteps and are interested in attending one of our nation’s service academies to contact my office to open a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our nation.” Each year, Upton nominates students from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in their respective schools and have gone through a rigorous selection process. The selection process includes an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board that is comprised of community leaders. Upon approval by the board, the names are passed on to Upton, who then officially nominates the local youth. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph-Benton Harbor District Office for further information: (269) 982-1986.
03.22.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) voted in support of the bipartisan Protecting Access to Healthcare (PATH) Act (H.R. 5). The PATH Act addresses two of the most glaring deficiencies of the President’s overhaul of the health care system. It includes reforms to the broken medical liability system as well as repeal of the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), a panel of 15 unelected bureaucrats tasked with finding Medicare savings through major decisions over medical treatments and services. The PATH Act passed the U.S. House of Representatives 223 to 181 and now awaits consideration in the Senate. "The President’s healthcare law failed to provide any meaningful reform to the costly medical liability system, which is currently one of the largest cost drivers in our health care system,” stated Upton. “The current system is responsible for as much as $200 billion a year in unnecessary spending on defensive medicine, at a cost to Michigan doctors and their patients. Currently, it fails to compensate injured patients in a fair and timely manner, and it threatens access to quality health care by driving good doctors out of high-risk specialties. “The Affordable Care Act established the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), a powerful board of 15 unelected and unaccountable bureaucrats whose sole job will be to save money by restricting access to health care for Medicare beneficiaries. These decisions will then be fast-tracked, essentially bypassing the legislative process, with almost no opportunity for discussion or review. The PATH Act prevents this by repealing the IPAB. Health care decisions should be made between a doctor and patient. That relationship does not work when bureaucrats and trail lawyers come between them.” “Protecting Access to Healthcare (PATH) Act is finally a step in the right direction of healthcare reform,” said Dr. Kenneth Edwards, MD, Medical Director of Surgical Services at Lakeland Health Systems in St. Joseph, Michigan. “No meaningful change in the cost of healthcare can be realized without addressing the influence of defensive medicine, which has become pervasive in US healthcare delivery. A reasonable approach to the issue of medical liability requires a national solution as put forth in this legislation. “The Independent Payment Advisory Board threatens health care to all Americans by establishing a body that is free from any accountability. Neither physicians nor the patients we serve have any guarantee of access to this body and without oversight the policies of this group could be arbitrary and irreversible. Improving value in healthcare requires an inclusive, comprehensive, and deliberative approach that involves patients, physicians, and payors. Repeal of the IPAB is an essential first step in protecting patients and insuring the decisions regarding healthcare delivery are evidence based and not solely politically motivated.”
03.15.2012	This morning, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) met with Kalamazoo-area business leaders and the Kalamazoo Regional Chamber of Commerce to discuss the impact of high energy prices on the local economy and area job creators, as well as the need to adopt a long-term national energy policy. Upton, who serves as Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has championed an “all of the above” energy strategy that puts an emphasis on North American energy production to meet our nation’s future energy needs and lessen our dependence on overseas suppliers. “It is only March, and already Michigan families and businesses are feeling the pinch in their pocketbooks every time they go to the gas pump. It is a painful reminder of how urgently we need a domestic energy strategy to address this ever-growing problem,” said Upton. “Rising costs place a huge burden on local businesses, impeding their ability to create jobs and aid in our economic recovery. The fact is, when it comes to energy production, we need it all. By putting the premium back on North American energy production we can simultaneously help lower energy costs, create good-paying jobs, and reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign suppliers. While the administration has frequently touted the benefits of domestic energy production, the actual policies tell a different story. Michigan’s struggling families and small business owners deserve better.” Upton is a leading supporter of the Keystone XL pipeline project, which would bring vital energy suppliers from Alberta, Canada to refineries in the United States. Construction of the project is estimated to create tens of thousands of U.S. jobs and would reduce America’s dependence on overseas oil by nearly 1 million barrels per day. “Today’s rising gas prices place a tremendous burden on people and businesses in Southwest Michigan and across the country,” said Steward Sandstrom, President/CEO of the Kalamazoo Regional Chamber of Commerce. “It is an enormous issue for small businesses, who are as susceptible to increases at the pump as anyone else. Our local employers want to expand and grow their businesses, but the uncertainty caused by high energy prices is a growth killer. At the same time, businesses recognize that high gas prices are a major drag on consumer confidence, so in effect they are taking a hit for these costs twice. These challenges reinforce the economic need for a long-term federal response to our national energy crisis.” What Local Job Creators Are Saying: Steven Duisterhof, Gordon Water Systems “Our nation’s current policy of little to no domestic energy development is hurting our working families the most. They are the ones paying the highest costs, and in turn it is hurting local small business. This unwillingness to develop North American energy is disproportionately harming the lower-income citizens of this country – the negligence is borderline unethical. It’s just flat out wrong.” Luke and Michael Miller, Miller Energy Company “As a fourth generation, family-owned, independent oil and natural gas company, Miller Energy and its 12 employees understand the burden higher gasoline prices place on small businesses. We recognize that high oil prices are primarily the result of supply and demand issues combined with geopolitical tensions. Part of the solution to stabilize prices is to create a national energy policy that encourages businesses like Miller Energy to provide more American oil and natural gas supplies to the marketplace. It is in our nation’s best interest to find new supplies of oil and natural gas across America. This will not only provide energy for our future, but also create thousands of jobs here at home.” David Rhoa, Lake Michigan Mailers, Inc. “We have a plan designed to help us manage the rising cost of fuel. Our customers did not ask us to develop this blueprint. We developed this plan because our customers expect us to provide them with cost-effective service regardless of the price at the pump. They have every right to expect that we would have such a strategy. Like our customers, the American people have every right to expect that their President will champion a national energy strategy that is comprehensive, cognizant of current economic realities, and viable in both the near term and long term.” Aaron Zeigler, Harold Zeigler Auto Group “As the economy is starting to gain steam again the major factor that could de-rail prosperity in the future is out of control gas prices. As gas prices rise, our costs rise and our suppliers’ cost rise and eventually the tremendous burden of cost is placed on Michigan families who are only now just beginning to recover from 38 months of double-digit unemployment. The solution is very simple. Expand energy production here at home with our vast resources and move forward with the proposed Keystone XL pipeline which would create an historic opportunity to increase our access to secure oil supplies.”
03.12.2012	In recognition of Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today urged continued public awareness and prevention in the fight against the disease, the third most common form of cancer among men and women in the United States. In 2007, over 5,000 people in Michigan were newly diagnosed with colorectal cancer, and about 1,800 died from the disease. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), more than 140,000 Americans are diagnosed with colorectal cancer each year and more than 50,000 people die from it, despite being one of the most preventable forms of cancer. Last Tuesday, March 6, Upton’s colleague Congressman Donald Payne (D-NJ) passed away due to complications from colon cancer. “The sad reality is that while this silent killer takes so many lives every year, it is also one of the most preventable forms of cancer,” said Upton. “That makes early diagnosis all the more important and routine screening critical, even for folks with no known symptoms or risk factors for the disease. This March, help commemorate Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month by talking to your healthcare provider about screening options and reducing your own risk – and please encourage your loved ones to do the same. Working together, we can increase awareness and fight this deadly disease.” An individual’s risk of colorectal cancer increases with age; most cases – some 90 percent – occur in people 50 and older. Beginning at age 50, men and women who are at average risk for developing colorectal cancer should begin screening. Certain lifestyle factors like diet, smoking, and consumption of alcohol also have an impact on an individual’s risk for colorectal cancer and other diseases. Early and routine screening can help detect colorectal cancer in its earliest stage, when treatment works best. For more information on colorectal cancer and early detection, Upton encourages people to visit the CDC website at http://www.cdc.gov/features/colorectalawareness.
03.08.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St Joseph) voted in support of Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. The House passed this bipartisan legislation 390 to 23. It will now make its way to the Senate for passage. “If given a chance, small businesses, startups and entrepreneurs can provide the growth and opportunity that southwest Michigan needs,” stated Upton. “The JOBS Act gives small businesses that chance by providing tools they need to create jobs and economic growth and help pave the way for more small-scale businesses to go public and create more jobs. One of the major obstacles for small businesses is better access to capital for business growth. The JOBS Act includes measures that will increase access to capital for startups, entrepreneurs and small businesses.” The JOBS Act is a legislative package designed to jumpstart our economy and restore opportunities for America’s primary job creators: our small businesses, startups, and entrepreneurs. The JOBS Act represents an opportunity for both parties to work together and deliver results on areas of common ground that help create jobs.
02.08.2012	Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement in response to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ announcement that it has approved $693,000 in funding for dredging and maintenance of the St. Joseph harbor for Fiscal Year 2012. This funding includes the $100,000 that was allocated this past December for emergency dredging. Upton worked closely with the Army Corps, area dock owners, and community leaders to obtain that emergency funding to dredge the St. Joseph harbor, which had become inaccessible to commercial traffic due to severe shoaling. “This announcement comes as wonderful news to southwest Michigan and local businesses that regularly depend upon our Great Lakes harbors,” said Upton. “This funding is particularly welcomed after the challenges that faced the St. Joseph harbor in December, which required emergency Army Corps assistance to restore the flow of commercial traffic. Michigan communities and businesses deserve the greater long-term certainty provided by this funding, knowing that this major gateway for raw materials, jobs, and growth will remain open. Now that funding has been secured for 2012, our top priority is to pass the RAMP Act to ensure that vital harbor maintenance funding remains available to our local harbors for years to come. We are very appreciative of the Army Corps for their continued efforts to keep our Michigan harbors open and ready for business.” Upton is a leading cosponsor and strong supporter of the bipartisan Realize America’s Maritime Promise (RAMP) Act (H.R. 104) to ensure that all funding collected through the federal Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund is fully used for the intended purpose of harbor maintenance. Upton is also a signatory of a recent letter to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requesting that the RAMP Act be included in the administration’s budget for FY 2013.
02.08.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) praised today’s House passage of bipartisan legislation to give the President of the United States the power of the line-item veto. Upton, who is a cosponsor of today’s legislation, has long championed the presidential line-item veto as a means of reducing federal spending and balancing the budget. Forty-four states including Michigan already give their governor some form of line-item veto authority. The Expedited Legislative Line-Item Veto and Recessions Act of 2011 (H.R. 3521) passed the House by a vote of 254 to 173, and now heads to the Senate for consideration. “In the past three years, our national debt has ballooned to historic proportions – from roughly $10.6 trillion when President Obama took office to more than $15 trillion today,” said Upton. “It is simply astounding when you consider that our $15 trillion national debt equates to nearly $50,000 for every American man, woman, and child. The President and the Congress, regardless of party, should have every budgetary tool at their disposal as we work to put our nation’s fiscal house back in order. This is another positive step in the fight to cut spending and reduce the size of government.” Under this long-overdue legislation, the President would have the authority to rescind provisions of enacted appropriations bills that reach his desk, subject to congressional approval. The veto would apply only to discretionary spending in spending measures. Congress, in an expedited up-or-down vote, would have to approve the President’s request to cut a line item. Unlike the version of the line-item veto that was struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court in the 1990s, H.R. 3521 passes constitutional muster by requiring congressional approval of the President’s proposed recessions. Upton supports a number of reforms to reduce spending and balance the federal budget. Among other things, Upton is an original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution (H.J.Res.2).
02.03.2012	Congressman Fred Upton today announced that Corry Daoust of Paw Paw and Brandon Vukelich of Schoolcraft have been accepted to attend the United States Military Academy at West Point. Upton, who recommended Mr. Daoust and Mr. Vukelich for selection to the prestigious service academy, personally congratulated Corry and Brandon on their appointments. Corry is currently a freshman at the University of Michigan and Brandon is a senior at Schoolcraft High School. Brandon also has a pending application for the U.S. Naval Academy. “I am thrilled to announce the appointments of Corry and Brandon to the United States Military Academy,” said Upton. “These remarkable young men have excelled both in and out of the classroom. They have successfully undergone a rigorous selection process, athletically and academically, and our entire community should be proud of their achievements. These exemplary young men represent the very best that Michigan has to offer. I encourage local students who aspire to follow in Corry and Brandon’s footsteps and are interested in attending one of our nation’s service academies to contact my office to open a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our nation.” Each year, Upton nominates students from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in their respective schools and have gone through a rigorous selection process. The selection process includes an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board that is comprised of community leaders. Upon approval by the board, the names are passed on to Upton, who then officially nominates the local youth. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph-Benton Harbor District Office for further information: (269) 982-1986.
01.18.2012	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement in response to the President’s rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline project. Upton and fellow House Energy and Commerce Committee leaders today outlined new plans to move forward on the job-creating Keystone XL pipeline, scheduling a hearing one week from today and announcing their intent to move forward on legislation that will restart the project. The Keystone XL project is a proposed 1,700-mile extension of an existing pipeline linking energy supplies in Canada to the United States. When complete, the Keystone pipeline system is expected to carry 1.4 million barrels of oil each day to refineries in the United States, significantly expanding North American energy supplies and reducing our need to import oil from unstable regions of the world. Building the Keystone XL pipeline is projected to directly create 20,000 construction and manufacturing jobs, not to mention the thousands of additional jobs and economic benefit that comes from an infrastructure project of this magnitude and the secure, stable energy supplies it will deliver. “Folks in Michigan are eager for real solutions to create jobs and secure our energy future,” said Upton. “This pipeline has been carefully vetted, environmentally scrutinized, and publicly discussed for more than three years. The American people cannot wait any longer. Gasoline prices have nearly doubled over the past three years and they are only expected to go higher moving forward. Canada is our ally and closest trading partner, and it would be foolish to let this pro-jobs, pro-energy project slip through our fingers now. Canada is developing these resources one way or another. If we don’t work with Canada on this, then China will. I am outraged by the President’s decision to further delay this shovel ready project. Be assured, I will continue to focus my efforts on jobs and our economy.”
01.09.2012	Today, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) held a press conference at local Dock 63 to discuss his recent work on the dredging issue in southwest Michigan. Due to severe shoaling, the St. Joseph harbor was closed to commercial traffic which sent a number of ships away during the month of December and replacing them with heavy trucks transporting cement and graveling from as far away as Muskegon. Upton worked with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, area dock owners, and community leaders to obtain emergency funding to dredge the St. Joseph harbor. “Our Great Lakes harbors are essential to jobs and economic growth in southwest Michigan,” stated Upton. “Area harbors need to remain open to commercial traffic as countless jobs and businesses are dependent upon them. Without emergency assistance from the Corps, the economic consequences of a shutdown harbor could have been devastating. With winter fast approaching and salt needed for our local roads, it is imperative that ships can get into the now-open harbor to reduce the chances of higher municipal budgets to deal with snow removal. This situation further underscores why federal funds collected for harbor maintenance should be fully utilized for just that, harbor maintenance.” “If it has concrete in it or asphalt around it, chances are very good that materials from a dock have been utilized in the project,” said Pete Berghoff, owner of Dock 63. “Our local harbors provide a reliable, economical source of bulk aggregates for use in a wide range of construction projects; everything from highways and bridges, industrial, and commercial, right down to residential housing – a healthy dock is a gateway for essential resources for the surrounding region.” Upton is a cosponsor of the bipartisan Realize America’s Maritime Promise (RAMP) Act (H.R. 104) to ensure that all funding collected through the federal Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund is fully used for the intended purpose of harbor maintenance. Upton is also a signatory of a recent letter to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requesting that the RAMP Act be included in the administration’s budget for FY 2013.
01.04.2012	Yesterday, President Obama signed into law H.R. 2845, the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act. Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) issued the following statement after President Obama signed the bill into law: “As chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I pledged to make pipeline safety a priority for the 112th Congress. I am proud of our bipartisan work to deliver on that promise. This new law will provide a strong framework to keep pipelines safe now and into the future. “I saw firsthand the importance of pipeline safety with the 2010 spill in Michigan’s Kalamazoo River. This tragedy and other recent incidents like the spill in the Yellowstone River and the explosion in San Bruno, California underscored the need for stronger safety laws. These experiences taught us valuable lessons that were applied in drafting legislation to ensure the proper regulatory requirements are in place to prevent future accidents from occurring. “Today’s accomplishment is the result of a collaborative effort by a bipartisan group of members who worked hard to see this bill become law. Earlier this year, I authored pipeline safety legislation with my friend and colleague from Michigan, John Dingell. I’m pleased that our legislation is reflected in the final law. Among its numerous safety provisions, the new law increases maximum violation fines, requires notification of an incident within one hour of its confirmed discovery, requires the use of automatic shut-off valves on new transmission lines, sets up leak detection standards for liquid pipelines, and provides for a federal review of pipelines buried under waterways. All of these measures will help pave the way toward a safer energy future.”
12.22.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) has announced his service academy nominees for the 2012-2013 academic year. The nominees have excelled both academically and athletically at their respective schools and have gone through an extensive selection process. “I am pleased to have the opportunity to nominate these fine young men and women to our nation’s service academies. It is a responsibility I do not take lightly,” said Upton. “Each member of this distinguished group has successfully undergone a rigorous selection process, and you can be sure they are the finest southwest Michigan has to offer. Our entire community should be proud of their accomplishments. These exemplary young men and women represent America’s best and brightest and we look forward to their future achievements in our nation’s armed services." The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board, which is comprised of local community leaders. Upon approval by the board, the students’ names were then passed on to Upton, who then officially nominated the students to our nation’s military academies. The individual academies will make the final decisions on military appointments. All applicants to military academies must be nominated by a Member of Congress, the President or the Vice President. "It is an honor and privilege to nominate these students as they serve as an outstanding example for other local youth who might aspire to follow in their footsteps," said Upton. "I strongly encourage local students to contact my St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office if they are interested in applying to the academies and opening a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our nation.” Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact Upton’s St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office for further information: (269) 982-1986. Upton has nominated the following students for the class of 2016: The United States Military Academy / ARMY Corry Daoust Paw Paw University of Michigan Alexandra Desotelle Kalamazoo Portage Central High School Eric Musser Plainwell Michigan State University Brandon Vukelich Schoolcraft Schoolcraft High School The United States Naval Academy Andrew Bult Kalamazoo Homeschooled Kyle Sankey Buchanan Western Michigan University Brandon Vukelich Schoolcraft Schoolcraft High School The United States Air Force Academy Jeffrey Christensen Augusta Gull Lake High School Tara Gay Paw Paw Gobles High School Chloe Hurst Schoolcraft Portage Northern High School Ainnie Husain Kalamazoo Kalamazoo Central High School Ryan Knapp Portage Portage Central High School Patrick Nuter Benton Harbor Lake Michigan Catholic
12.20.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) this afternoon joined the United States Army of Corps of Engineers in announcing $100,000 in emergency funding to dredge the St. Joseph harbor. Over the past weeks, Upton has worked closely with local dock owners, Berrien County officials, and the Corps to reach a solution. The harbor, which is essential to jobs and economic activity in southwest Michigan, has become inaccessible to commercial traffic on account of severe shoaling. One instance of a commercial vessel grounding on the shoal has already occurred and several planned deliveries have already been put on hold. “Ensuring the St. Joseph harbor remains open and ready for businesses is essential to jobs and growth in our region,” said Upton. “The harbor is a veritable gateway for economic growth in southwest Michigan. Allowing it to shut down for the season was not an option as it would not only be detrimental to area shippers, but have a ripple effect across the local economy. Thousands of local jobs and countless businesses are dependent upon these harbors, and harbor maintenance does not need to be another worry for southwest Michigan folks this year. I am very appreciative of all the work done by the Army Corps to see this dredging take place and have asked that work starts as soon as possible. Today’s announcement is welcomed news for everyone – we look forward to seeing the harbor return to fully operational status in the near future.” Upton is a cosponsor of the bipartisan Realize America’s Maritime Promise (RAMP) Act (H.R. 104) to ensure that all funding collected through the federal Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund is fully used for the intended purpose of harbor maintenance. Upton is also a signatory of a recent letter to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requesting that the RAMP Act be included in the administration’s budget for FY 2013.
12.13.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) praised this evening’s House passage of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act (H.R. 3630). Among other things, this legislation extends payroll tax cuts and unemployment benefits while preventing scheduled cuts to Medicare payments for physicians. H.R. 3630 also seeks to spur job creation by advancing wireless broadband service and investment, protecting employers from the costs of unattainable federal rules and regulations, and requiring approval of the Keystone XL energy pipeline project – construction of which will directly employ some 20,000 workers and create 100,000 spin-off jobs. H.R. 3630 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 234 to 193 and now heads to the Senate for further action. “This bill goes a long way to provide real, meaningful relief for struggling Michigan families and small businesses,” said Upton. “This package extends payroll tax cuts for working families, makes commonsense reforms to extend unemployment benefits, and ensures continued access for Medicare patients by protecting local doctors from reimbursement cuts. To spur private-sector job creation, this package also calls for the approval of the long-delayed Keystone pipeline – a construction project that promises to create tens of thousands of good-paying jobs here in the United States while drastically reducing our dependence on non-North American oil. Finally, it provides much needed regulatory relief for Michigan job creators. And what’s more, every bit of it is paid for – not a dime will be added to our nation’s debt.”
12.12.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, applauded this evening’s passage of bipartisan legislation to ensure vital updates and improvements are made in U.S. pipeline safety. As Chairman, Upton has remained committed to ensuring vital updates and improvements are made in U.S. pipeline safety. The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (H.R. 2845) passed the House by voice vote and now awaits immediate action in the Senate. “As our nation’s energy demand and production continue to climb, so grows the importance of ensuring the safe transportation of these vital resources,” said Upton. “As Michiganders, pipeline safety is an issue that hits especially close to home, and has been a focus of mine as Energy and Commerce Chairman. While our nation’s 2.5 million miles of pipeline infrastructure remain the safest and most effective mode of transporting essential energy resources throughout the United States, last summer’s tragic pipeline rupture into a tributary of the Kalamazoo River underscored the unacceptable costs of catastrophe. This bill does much to hold those responsible for pipeline accidents accountable, while also taking measurable steps to prevent pipeline failures from happening in the first place. I look forward to seeing immediate action from the Senate to ensure this important legislation reaches the President’s desk before the holidays.” Along with Michigan colleague John D. Dingell (D-MI), the former Democratic Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman, Upton is the author of the Pipeline Infrastructure and Community Protection Act (H.R. 2937), which passed the Energy and Commerce Committee by a vote of 52 to 0 earlier this fall. Today’s legislation, H.R. 2845, was an agreement reached between the Upton-Dingell bill and additional pipeline safety bills advanced in the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee by Congressman Bill Shuster (R-PA) and in the U.S. Senate. The July 25, 2010, Enbridge pipeline rupture in Marshall, Michigan, a city east of Upton’s congressional district, resulted in the spill of 20,000 barrels of oil into the Talmadge Creek, a tributary of the Kalamazoo River. Upon receiving notification of the spill, Upton worked aggressively with local officials and state and federal agencies to mitigate the incident’s impact on public health, property, and the environment.
12.06.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, is asking businesses in Michigan to let Congress know how federal regulations are holding them back from creating jobs and what policies they believe would help encourage economic growth. AmericanJobCreators.com is an online initiative that enables businesses from across the country to share their personal stories about how government rules and regulations impact economic growth and the creation of jobs in the private sector. Click here to view Upton’s AmericanJobCreators.com video on YouTube. “No one better understands the economic challenges facing our nation than folks here in Michigan,” said Upton. “After nearly three years of double-digit unemployment, many of the policy decisions coming out of Washington continue to delay our recovery and fail to bring businesses the long-term certainty they need to grow. With the launch of AmericanJobCreators.com, businesses from across the country are able to share their personal stories in a centralized location about how federal rules and regulations are making it difficult for them to operate. Our goal must continue to be eliminating the burdensome red tape that unnecessarily stands in the way of jobs, innovation, and American competitiveness.” The undue costs of various new federal rules and regulations have placed a tremendous burden on already-struggling businesses, often with disproportionately little benefit. For example, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates $11 billion in annual costs for companies to comply with provisions of the Agency’s utility rule, while total benefits to society max out at $6.1 million. Such a tradeoff defies common sense. Businesses may join the national effort by sharing their stories at: www.americanjobcreators.com. Those from Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District are also encouraged to contact Upton’s office directly.
11.29.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) is reminding folks in southwest Michigan to keep our troops and veterans foremost in their thoughts by participating in the Holiday Mail for Heroes program. For the fifth year, the American Red Cross and Pitney Bowes Inc. have joined forces for the Holiday Mail for Heroes program to provide Americans with the opportunity to extend holiday greetings and thanks to service members and veterans. “A holiday greeting can make quite a difference in the life of one of our troops currently in service or one of our heroic veterans – providing a simple, yet powerful reminder that the American public is grateful for their service,” said Upton. “What better way to personally thank our troops and veterans this holiday season than with a card. I hope everyone will take a moment to remember our troops and veterans and thank them in their own words. My office has already received hundreds of cards from people across southwest Michigan. The gesture of a card will mean so much to those brave men and women who have made tremendous sacrifices for our nation.” Each year the American Red Cross provides assistance to over 2 million service members and many of our nation’s 24 million veterans. The holiday season is the perfect time to extend a warm greeting and word of gratitude to those who have served and continue to do so. The Red Cross has requested that folks keep in mind a few guidelines: Do... • Include your heartfelt sentiments and sign all cards • Entitle cards with generic terms such as “Dear Service Member, Family or Veteran” • Limit cards to 15 per person or 50 for a school class or business group • Bundle groups of cards in single, large envelopes Don’t... • Send letters, care packages or monetary gifts • Include personal information such as home or email addresses • Use glitter – excessive amounts can aggravate health issues of wounded recipients • Include inserts of any kind as they must be removed in the screening process Cards must be received by Holiday Mail for Heroes no later than December 9th. Cards received after this date will be returned to senders. Holiday cards should be addressed and sent to: Holiday Mail for Heroes P.O. Box 5456 Capitol Heights, MD 20791-5456 Upton is also collecting cards at both of his district offices in St. Joseph and Kalamazoo – Upton will forward cards to Holiday Mail for Heroes that are received in either office by December 9th. Those interested may send cards to either office or drop them off in person. St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office 800 Centre 800 Ship Street St. Joseph, MI 269-982-1986 Kalamazoo District Office 157 South Kalamazoo Mall Suite 180 Kalamazoo, MI 269-385-0039 Every card received will be screened for hazardous materials by Pitney Bowes and distributed to participating Red Cross chapters nationwide. Once the cards arrive at the Red Cross chapters, they are sorted and reviewed by volunteers who then distribute them to service members, their families and veterans in communities across the country. For additional information and card requirements, please visit with www.redcross.org/holidaymail.
11.21.2011	Rep. Fred Upton (R-St.Joseph), chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Energy and Commerce and a member of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, issued the following statement on congressional efforts to reduce the deficit and create jobs: “I spent the last three months as one of 12 members who faced steep odds to find agreement, but who shared an understanding that our fiscal challenges cannot be ignored. I am bitterly disappointed that we were not able to find enough common ground to deliver the deficit reduction choices that Congress needs to make, but I am not deterred in my commitment to keep at it. Differences continue to divide us, but focusing solely on those differences serves no one. Instead of listening to the naysayers, I will continue listening to the people I serve: the folks in Michigan who have faced nearly three years of double-digit unemployment rates, but who persevere in seeking an economic comeback; the constituents who called, wrote, and spoke to me, sharing their hope for our success and their continued belief that leaders can come together for the country. They’re looking for solutions, and we’re going to keep working to deliver. “America’s fiscal challenges did not appear overnight, and finding solutions will take time and require tough choices. No member of the Joint Select Committee planned for this process to conclude with automatic spending cuts rather than an agreement to cut more, but Congress included automatic cuts in the law to make certain that, at the end of the day, we achieved an initial deficit reduction goal. Members on both sides of the aisle and the President of the United States need to recognize that our work to get our economy back on track is far from over. “Too many people in Michigan and across the country are looking for work because job creators lack the certainty and economic confidence to grow and create jobs. Congress needs to tighten government’s belt just as families have had to tighten theirs. We need to reform the tax code so the American people aren’t left feeling like the system is stacked against them, with special benefits and loopholes for those who can afford to find them and everyone facing a massive tax hike that will squeeze middle class family budgets and stifle economic recovery. As chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, my focus is on the rapidly rising cost of health care that is driving our long-term spending growth. We can and must address each of these challenges. We can and must keep the focus on job creation and economic recovery.”
11.10.2011	Veterans Day is a time of reflection and remembrance, a chance to honor the brave men and women who have served in our country’s armed forces. Today, we come together as a nation to say thank you and pay tribute to all the heroes who sacrificed so much in the name of freedom. At times, we may take for granted the liberties we enjoy, but they have been earned through the courageous service of our men and women in uniform. We will always remember those who gave up so much for the greater good of our country. While not all of their stories are written in history books, they are forever imprinted on our hearts. Freedom and security do not come without a price, and we can never fully repay those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation. This year our hearts are particularly heavy with the loss of four young men from Southwest Michigan. These men, still in the prime of their lives, followed a selfless path that led them to serve. They leave behind loved ones and communities that miss them deeply, and a nation that shall remain eternally grateful. We are also mindful of the brave men and women who are still fighting on the front lines today. Our troops make us so proud, and we owe both them and their families a great debt for their service and sacrifice. They are mothers and fathers, sons and daughters, sisters and brothers, and we wish they were here with us today so that we could personally thank them. Our thoughts and prayers are with them and their families, and we all look forward to their safe return home. Thank you to all our nation’s veterans from the bottom of our hearts. Freedom is alive and well because of your service. Today, we are still the land of the free because of our brave.
10.27.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R- St. Joseph), an original co-sponsor, voted in favor of legislation (H.R. 674) to permanently repeal the 3 percent withholding requirement on certain payments made to contractors doing business with federal, state, and local governments. The bipartisan bill passed the House of Representatives 405 – 16. “As a co-sponsor of H.R. 674, I believe that repealing the 3 percent withholding rule is a commonsense, bipartisan step to promote economic growth and job creation for southwest Michigan,” stated Upton. “If not repealed, this rule would impose new burdens on already cash-strapped employers, impede cash flow, and undermine job creation.” The 3 percent withholding rule was originally scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2011, but because of strong concerns raised by employers and government entities alike about the potentially significant burdens it could create, the rule’s effective date was delayed until January 1, 2013. A full repeal is necessary for the security of job creators.
10.13.2011	Today, Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) voted in favor of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Regulatory Relief Act of 2011 (H.R. 2250). This bipartisan legislation protects jobs and sets achievable standards for industrial boilers, process heaters, and incinerators. H.R. 2250 passed the House this afternoon by a vote of 275 - 142. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. On February 21, 2011, EPA announced rules affecting more than 200,000 boilers, process heaters, and incinerators in the United States. Approximately two months prior to announcing the rules, EPA had sought a 15-month extension from the D.C. Circuit Court to re-propose the rules, but that request was denied. On the same day EPA announced the rules, EPA stated that it would reconsider certain aspects of the rules. “I am encouraged to see such a solid bipartisan effort to save jobs from regulatory destruction.” stated Upton. “Left unchecked, these rules would raise electricity costs and stifle our manufacturing competitiveness. Hospitals, factories, universities, farms, and many Michigan employers will be directly impacted. Today’s vote was a victory for Michigan families, who stand to bear the greatest costs of EPA’s overreaching regulations. Notre Dame testified before the House Energy and Commerce committee that EPA’s Boiler MACT rule will require significant changes, most of which are not achievable, affordable, or realistic. Southwest Michigan’s families and small business owners have struggled and sacrificed long enough - enduring additional costs during these tough economic times is not the proper solution.” H.R. 2250, The EPA Regulatory Relief Act of 2011, would alleviate the excessive regulatory burden placed on employers by the EPA’s Boiler Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) rules by replacing them with sensible, achievable rules that do not destroy jobs. It would provide the EPA with at least 15 months to re-propose and finalize new rules for boilers, process heaters, and incinerators. It would also extend compliance deadlines from 3 to at least 5 years to allow facilities adequate time to comply with the standards and install necessary equipment.
10.12.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) voted in support of the three Free Trade Agreements (FTA), South Korea (H.R. 3080), Panama (H.R. 3079) and Columbia (H.R. 3078). The South Korea FTA passed the House by a vote of 278 - 151. The Panama FTA passed the House by a vote of 300 - 129. The Columbia FTA passed the House by a vote of 262 - 167. All three bills passed with bipartisan support and now await Senate approval. “These groundbreaking agreements will bring significant benefits to Michigan by expanding market access that will touch many industries in Michigan, such as manufacturing of aircraft and auto parts, plastics, computer and electronics products -- just to name a few,” stated Upton. “By removing barriers to U.S. exports, American job creators will have significant new market access: that is good news for business, jobs, and Southwest Michigan.” “All of Michigan agriculture will benefit from these free trade agreements,” said Michigan Farm Bureau President Wayne H. Wood. “At the most basic level it is a simple concept—the more markets you can sell your product in, the stronger you’ll be. Combined, all three agreements represent almost $2.5 billion in new agriculture exports. Every $1 billion in U.S. agricultural exports supports 9,000 U.S. jobs, including transportation workers, food processors, packers, longshoremen, sales and marketing representatives. Michigan agricultural products ripe for export to Panama, Colombia and/or South Korea include cherries, apples, blueberries, soybeans, beef, corn, pork, dairy products, and processed food.” The three agreements are expected to increase Michigan agriculture exports by nearly $45 million per year and provide more than 400 agriculture-related jobs in Michigan. The medical device industry also stands to benefit greatly from these agreements. Demand for medical devices in South Korea is expected to grow by 10% each year, and the new duty-free status given to devices will give companies like Kalamazoo-based Stryker unprecedented access to that market.
10.04.2011	U.S. Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement regarding Ford Motor Company and the United Auto Workers union reaching a tentative agreement. “It is exciting to hear that the Ford Motor Company and the United Auto Workers (UAW) union have reached a tentative agreement on a new four-year labor contract,” Upton stated. “This agreement calls for 12,000 jobs to be added in Ford’s U.S. manufacturing facilities, many of which will be right here in Michigan. I applaud Ford and the UAW for reaching this agreement, and I encourage them to move forward to seal the deal and put more Americans back to work, especially here in Michigan.”
09.28.2011	On the evening of September 26, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) enjoyed hearing that the Combating Autism Reauthorization Act (HR 2005) was unanimously approved by voice vote in the U.S. Senate. HR 2005 is a bill that Upton supports and helped shepherd through the Energy and Commerce committee. The bill, which also passed the House of Representatives, last week, would fund federal autism research programs for another three years. “Early detection can be a key element to mitigating the impact of autism,” Upton stated. “The research into the causes and treatment of autism and other developmental disabilities needs to continue and this bill will do just that.” The bill, which authorizes $693 million to fund research into the causes and treatment of autism and other developmental disabilities through 2014, now heads to the president’s desk for signature.
09.23.2011	Today, Congressman Fred Upton (R- St. Joseph) voted in support of the Transparency in Regulatory Analysis of Impacts to the Nation Act, known as the TRAIN Act (H.R. 2401).The bill requires the President to establish a Committee to analyze and report on the cumulative and incremental impacts of rules and actions of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) concerning air, waste, water, and climate change for each of the calendar years 2016, 2020, and 2030. The vote passed on a bipartisan vote of 249 to 169. “The EPA has released numerous pending regulations that will cost thousands of jobs and impose billions of dollars in costs on our already struggling economy,” Upton stated. “After 32 consecutive months of double-digit unemployment, Michigan cannot afford the economic costs of more ill-conceived regulations. Today, the agency has more than 300 regulatory actions under consideration and it continues to issue new rules at an unprecedented pace. If the President is really serious about job creation he must do much more to rein in EPA’s overreach. Regulations do not exist in a vacuum. Industries are not faced with just a single rule; they are forced to comply with layers and layers of them. Before those rules take effect, we must fully understand the consequences for our economy. The TRAIN act will provide for an honest accounting of EPA’s rules.” The TRAIN Act prevents EPA from issuing burdensome regulations that would negatively affect job promotion as well as company expansions. If left unchecked, EPA’s actions would have a devastating impact on jobs, U.S. competitiveness, and domestic energy prices. Southwest Michigan’s families and small business owners have struggled and sacrificed long enough.
09.15.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) is asking people of southwest Michigan to share their ideas for cutting federal spending and reducing the national debt. Upton is one of twelve members of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, a bipartisan, bicameral panel tasked with finding at least $1.5 trillion in federal savings over the next decade. The Committee will have until November 23, 2011 to submit its proposal to the Congress for an up-or-down vote without amendment or filibuster before December 23, 2011. Earlier this week, the Joint Select Committee launched its official website at http://www.DeficitReduction.gov, which allows all Americans to view the Committee’s latest news and notices, live stream hearings, and submit suggestions. Upton has added a special “Cutting the Debt” comment section to his own official website – http://upton.house.gov – for residents of Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District to share their deficit reduction ideas directly with him. As always, constituents are also encouraged to call, fax, or drop by Upton’s Kalamazoo, St. Joseph-Benton Harbor, or Washington, DC office to share their views on the debt or any other federal issue. “When it comes to addressing our nation’s skyrocketing debt, the stakes could not be higher,” Upton stated. “This is particularly true for folks here in Michigan, who after nearly three years of double-digit unemployment, deserve some economic certainty. Without significant cuts and budgetary reforms, our children and grandchildren will face an insurmountable avalanche of debt. I would encourage everyone to become a part of the process by putting their ideas on the table – we all must work together to put our nation’s fiscal house back in order.”
09.15.2011	Yesterday, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce committee participated in the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing to examine the involvement of the Department of Energy (DOE) and the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in the review and approval of the $535 million loan guarantee to Solyndra, a California-based solar company. In 2009, Solyndra was the first company to receive a DOE loan guarantee funded through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Just two years after receiving over a half a billion taxpayer dollars, and being touted by President Obama as a model for how the government’s venture capital program should work, the company has filed for bankruptcy and was raided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The House Energy and Commerce committee’s investigation of the DOE Loan Guarantee Program began in February 17, 2011 by requesting documents and information relating to the Solyndra guarantee from DOE and OMB. After significant delay in obtaining documents from OMB, the Committee authorized the issuance of a subpoena to OMB for documents relating to the Solyndra loan guarantee. “The situation with Solyndra is disheartening. The Energy and Commerce committee has an important responsibility to pursue answers regarding the use of taxpayer money,” Upton said. “The public has a right to know how their hard-earned dollars are being spent. This is not the end of our inquiry. The answers we have turned up so far spark additional questions, and I am committed to pursuing this investigation and conducting rigorous oversight of the Loan Guarantee Program and its recipients. With soaring deficits and budgetary challenges, we need to be responsible stewards of taxpayer dollars.” “I support a comprehensive ‘all of the above’ energy strategy to meet our nation’s growing energy needs and reduce our reliance on foreign fossil fuels. Whether developing the vast resources we have here at home, promoting the advancement of safe nuclear, harnessing alternative energy sources like wind and solar, or developing energy efficient technologies, we need to put a premium back on domestic energy production,” Upton stated. Upton has been a strong supporter of energy innovation in southwest Michigan, which is home to such programs as the Wind Turbine Technician Academy at Kalamazoo Valley Community College and the Sunseeker solar car team at Western Michigan University. See national coverage of Solyndra below: WATCH the Today Show Highlight “Green Embarrassment” WATCH ABC News Investigate “Whether Taxpayers Were Left Holding the Bag When the Warning Signs Were Clear” Background A preliminary review of documents obtained by the House Energy and Commerce committee during the course of its investigation of Solyndra indicates that DOE and the OMB may have not taken adequate steps to protect taxpayer dollars. Emails and other communications produced to the Committee show that DOE and OMB staff repeatedly questioned whether the company had the financial resources to support the operations of the loan guarantee project. In late August 2009, OMB staff raised concerns regarding the loan guarantee and pressed DOE Loan Programs staff to produce additional information about the company. Communications exchanged during this time period clearly demonstrate that OMB felt pressure to complete its review ahead of the September 4, 2009 groundbreaking event organized by the White House at Solyndra’s facilities.
09.09.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) issued the following statement on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the terrorist attacks against the United States on the morning of September 11, 2001. “This Sunday, we commemorate the ten year anniversary of the horrific terrorist attacks against our nation on the morning of September 11th. Like most Americans, the memories of that fateful late-summer day remain as fresh to me as ever before. “The alarm and confusion following the first plane crash into the World Trade Center’s North Tower and the gut-sinking realization soon thereafter when the South Tower was struck. The symbol of our military strength – the Pentagon – billowing smoke on the outskirts of Washington, D.C. The courage of the passengers of United Airlines Flight 93 who made the ultimate sacrifice to save countless others. The public safety officers and emergency responders who braved the smoldering wreckage of the twin towers in search of survivors – many of whom gave their own lives in the line of service. The powerful images of that day and the thousands of innocents lost will never be forgotten. “What the attack on Pearl Harbor was for the Greatest Generation, the attacks of September 11th are for our own. For younger Americans like our children and grandchildren – for whom most of 20th century and its horrors belong to the history books – those acts of fanatical violence and hatred left a lasting mark. “Let us remember all those who lost their lives or loved ones, as well as those who have taken up the mantle to ensure our homeland remains safe and secure. “While our view of the world around us changed because of those attacks – now a decade ago – we today remain ever committed to the ideals of life, liberty, and security. As our nation’s wounds continue to heal, may those timeless principles continue to guide us and keep us united.”
09.08.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) spoke at this morning’s organizational meeting of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction. Upton’s remarks as prepared for delivery and submitted for the record follow. Let me begin by recognizing our co-chairs, Senator Murray and Representative Hensarling, for their leadership in the few short weeks since this panel was named. I spoke to both of them throughout August, and appreciate their quick action to begin assembling a strong staff to coordinate our work, develop the rules package we will consider today, and take all the other logistical steps to allow us to hit the ground running. I spent virtually all last month at home in Michigan meeting with my constituents and doing all the things we do: forums, county fairs, etc. Michigan is a great state – it’s a place people were drawn to as they built their own American dream. Our state produced some of the world’s greatest inventions and industries; it was an economic hub. And now, it is on the front lines of our economic downturn. Michigan families have faced 32 straight months of double-digit unemployment. Manufacturing jobs have disappeared, and more jobs are at risk because of regulatory burdens and economic uncertainty. I don’t think any state has more at stake than we do in Michigan, and my constituents know it. They know this Committee was created to make the tough but necessary choices to cut spending and make reforms to put us on a more stable long-term fiscal footing. Removing economic uncertainty and demonstrating that we can reverse our long-term debt and deficit trends will help spur job growth. If I heard one thing consistently from my constituents, it was this: the American people want us to succeed. They know the job of this committee and this Congress is not an easy one, but all of us – the 12 of us here and every one of our House and Senate colleagues – were sent here to do what’s right for our nation. They are pulling for us. Cutting spending is essential to jump-start our economy and prevent the kind of downturn we are being warned about. If we do not succeed, we risk further damage to our credit rating and a deeper erosion in confidence – both of which will worsen the cycle. That’s why this team is committed to success and began laying a foundation these last few weeks. We spoke on the phone and in smaller groups, and a major focus has been to review the work that has already been done to identify meaningful steps to reduce our deficit. The Cantor-Biden talks, the Simpson-Bowles commission, even the annual CBO budget options framework – each of these offers options we can consider alongside any new ideas to begin taming our runaway debt. I’m pleased to be here in the Energy and Commerce hearing room for our first meeting – if you’ll allow me to use my home-field advantage, I’d like to speak for just a moment about some of what we bring to the table. The Energy and Commerce Committee has already voted this year to reduce the federal deficit by roughly $90 billion, and we’re making progress on additional legislation that could take us well over $100 billion. And we’re not alone. We are working hard to cut spending – for example, we can eliminate nearly $60 billion in federal spending by reforming our broken medical liability system and we can save tens of billions more by simply wiping out some of the unaccountable spending in the health care law. But that’s just the beginning. Others are focused on revenue – the kind of revenue you generate not with tax increases, but by harnessing our nation’s great resources. For example, we can grow by expanding energy production, which will create significant new jobs while bringing in federal bonus bids and royalties, not to mention significant tax receipts from increased economic activity. My goal for this committee is to begin by seeking common ground. Surely, there are areas where we can agree. Surely, we can identify areas where we are not spending taxpayer dollars wisely and where we can do better. Every taxpayer dollar we spend, every program on the books, can be viewed through the lens of job creation and fiscal responsibility. Are we spending the people’s money wisely? Are we supporting job growth and economic certainty? Those are the questions, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to find answers.
09.02.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, welcomed today’s news that President Obama is calling on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to withdraw its controversial proposal to voluntarily revisit a 2008 ozone standard – a plan that the agency itself projected would impose annual costs of as much as $90 billion. The EPA’s ozone rule is one of numerous pending regulations from the agency that will cost hundreds of thousands of jobs and impose tens of billions of dollars in costs on our already struggling economy. “After 32 consecutive months of double-digit unemployment, Michigan cannot afford the economic costs of more ill-conceived regulations,” said Upton. “Nearly every single county in our state and across the country would be directly impacted by the proposed change. I commend the President for recognizing that adding to costs of doing business is not the key to job creation and innovation. We all know that folks cannot go to work at factories that are never built or are forced to shut their doors – it is very clear that EPA’s new ozone proposal would have done just that, forcing millions of jobs to someplace other than the United States. While this is a very positive step forward, it is unfortunately but one of this agency’s countless regulatory proposals that have threatened jobs and contributed to greater economic uncertainty.” Kalamazoo Regional Chamber of Commerce President and CEO Steward Sandstrom made the following statement on the President’s announcement: “This is a really great day for southwest Michigan and the Kalamazoo region. Had the EPA’s rules gone into effect as proposed, it would have been one of the largest job killers we have seen. The remediation the agency proposed would have been ridiculous and the economic consequences would have been devastating. We can now look forward and continue working to move our economy in a positive direction."
08.25.2011	During the last few weeks, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) has been touring the 6th District of Michigan meeting with constituents, promoting job creation and attending local city and county meetings. During these events, Upton fielded questions related to the 12-member Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction and wide spread declarations of support for the success of the bipartisan panel. “I am encouraged by my discussions with other appointed members of the committee who have also received support from people in their districts. I believe we all understand that in order to reduce our nation’s debt, we will need to work together. U.S. fiscal policy is in a rut and it will take tough choices and bipartisan cooperation within the committee to rein in spending and get our economy back on track and American’s back to work.” Yesterday, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and U.S. Representative Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), co-chairmen of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction issued the following statement: “In the days since Leader Reid and Speaker Boehner asked us to undertake this joint responsibility, we have been working together to ensure that the committee we help build is given every opportunity to succeed. “In our capacity as co-chairmen, we are engaging in serious discussions to determine what set of rules will govern the committee’s operation, examining a schedule of potential meetings and exploring how to build a committee staff that will help us achieve success. Additionally, most of the committee members are reviewing the deficit reduction work that many others have engaged in over the past several years. We are confident that most Americans will agree that when building an organization from the ground-up with a short time-table for success, it’s important to get it right the first time. “We are excited that committee members and staff from both sides of the aisle are eager to engage one another as we begin our work. We encourage our colleagues to participate in active and useful dialogue across the aisle and among our respective caucuses as we continue to work through this process.”
08.18.2011	Today, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) joined local economic development organizations Southwest Michigan First, Cornerstone Alliance, and the Cornerstone Chamber of Commerce in hosting an event with Indiana-based automotive manufacturer Carbon Motors Corporation. The event, which was held at the Radisson Plaza Hotel in downtown Kalamazoo, gave southwest Michigan automotive suppliers the unique opportunity to directly engage the large manufacturer and see what opportunities are available for their own services. It also afforded Carbon Motors the occasion to showcase to area law enforcement the company's long anticipated Carbon E7, an innovative purpose-built law enforcement patrol vehicle. Carbon Motors has indicated that they would like to roll out tens of thousands of the fuel efficient, diesel engine law enforcement vehicles per year once their Connersville, Indiana facility is complete. While the first-of-its-kind vehicle will be manufactured in Indiana, Carbon Motors will be looking to automotive part suppliers throughout the United States to get the job done. Dozens of southwest Michigan suppliers were present for today's event to meet with Carbon Motors representatives and express their interest in supplying parts, from hoses and glass, to lights and mirrors. “Time and again, I have witnessed how small businesses are leading the way for job creation and innovation here in southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “When it comes to competing, our region’s manufacturers are unmatched in skills and experience. Today, that case was made to the folks at Carbon Motors, who had the opportunity to speak firsthand with southwest Michigan automotive suppliers and law enforcement. We are all thrilled with the work being done at Carbon Motors to meet the needs of the law enforcement community and look forward to the role our region will play because of the partnerships forged today.” In addition to regional part suppliers, invitations to the event were also extended to area law enforcement agencies, which have long awaited production of the Carbon E7. "It was spectacular to finally see one of these vehicles in person," said Kalamazoo County Sheriff Richard Fuller, who represented one of the many local law enforcement agencies in attendance. "I am very excited to see that jobs could be created in this region to help law enforcement, to help everyone with a purpose-built law enforcement vehicle. There is lots of excitement in the law enforcement community about the car and I cannot wait to test drive one myself." While most emergency responders use vehicles designed to make them more effective in their jobs, law enforcement has long relied on modified retail passenger cars for demanding operations. The E7 is the very first vehicle to have been designed from the ground up with the needs and demands of today's law enforcement officer in mind. The high-performance diesel engine will save substantial taxpayer dollars over current gasoline engines as well as help reduce our nation's growing dependence on volatile energy-producing nations. The vehicle is also equipped with many other police-specific features, including: integrated emergency lights and flashers, 360-degree exterior video and audio monitoring, automatic license plate recognition system, specially designed back seat for apprehended suspects, and integrated weapons storage, to name only a few.
08.10.2011	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) issued the following statement today after House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) named Upton, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) and Republican Conference Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) to serve on the 12-member Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, a bipartisan, bicameral panel tasked with finding at least $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction over the next decade: “The Budget Control Act made a modest down payment on our debt in the short term and called on Congress – through a Joint Select Committee – to build on those savings with meaningful spending controls and program reforms that will continue the process of putting our fiscal house in order over the long term. I am humbled by the trust Speaker Boehner and our leadership team have placed in us, and I stand ready to serve on the Joint Select Committee alongside Chairman Camp and Chairman Hensarling on behalf of all House Republicans. “Being from Michigan where families have endured 31 consecutive months of double-digit unemployment, I know how important it is to get our economy back on track and get Americans back to work. As someone who worked on the federal budget for President Reagan, I saw firsthand that sound economic policy is the bedrock of job creation and fiscal responsibility. And as chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I know the exploding cost of health care is at the root of our long-term fiscal challenges; it's why our committee has already produced legislation to save taxpayers $90 billion, and that was just the beginning. Much more needs to be done to bring down health care costs, promote economic growth, and begin to tame runaway government. No one believes this is going to be easy, but working with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle and in both Chambers of the Congress, we will work to address our fiscal challenges and get America back to work.”
08.04.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R- St. Joseph) made the following statement after today’s announcement that the U.S. Senate will take up the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) Reauthorization extension on Friday. The Senate is expected to agree to a House-passed version of a temporary funding extension that would last until Sept. 16, 2011. "I know first-hand the difficulties our local airports have had for the duration of the construction season for ongoing projects that have inconvenienced our travelers as well as laid-off construction workers that help our local economies. In the last week, I have heard directly from our airports and talked directly to Secretary of Transportation, Ray LaHood, this morning regarding the difficulties we are facing. I am very pleased that an accord was reached and the extension of the FAA Reauthorization can pass on a voice vote in both the House and Senate immediately."
08.01.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement after tonight’s vote to avoid default on our national debt and put our fiscal house back in order. The Budget Control Act of 2011 passed the House by a vote of 269-161 and now heads to the Senate for consideration. “After 31 consecutive months of double-digit unemployment, failure to act is not an option for Michigan families. This agreement begins to address our nation's long-term debt with firm spending cuts and caps, now and in the future. I voted for this agreement to ensure that we will not allow the full faith and credit of the United States to be compromised. The agreement will avert a default on the national debt, which would drive up interest rates, create major financial disruptions, and harm the U.S. economy. Meaningful spending cuts with real tools to enforce them are the reforms we need to finally stop the deficit spending and protect the next generation. Enactment of this agreement will keep our nation from default and protect Michigan families and job creators from untold economic damage.”
07.29.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement after this Friday’s House vote to cut federal spending, avoid default on our national debt, and begin putting our fiscal house back in order. The Budget Control Act of 2011 passed the House by a vote of 218-210 and now heads to the Senate for consideration this weekend. “Default is not an option for Michigan’s families and businesses who have now endured 31 consecutive months of double-digit unemployment,” said Upton. “Allowing the U.S. to exhaust its borrowing authority would have disastrous economic repercussions by raising interest rates across the board for almost every entity. That is simply not acceptable in times likes these. This proposal marks the first time an increase in the debt ceiling is offset by even cuts in federal spending. To put our fiscal house in order, Congress must take up the challenging task of tackling deficit spending and budgetary reforms. The House has acted; now it’s time for the Senate to do the same.”
07.28.2011	U.S. Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement in response to proposed new vehicle fuel economy standards. “I understand why the auto makers are agreeing to this new standard, and I hope it works. I weighed in to try to protect jobs and consumers, and I know the efforts of the Michigan delegation made a difference. I do have a number of questions about what this is going to mean, especially looking so far into the future. And frankly, I’m tired of the State of California dictating to folks in Michigan what kind of cars we can buy or build. At the end of the day, I want what’s best for people building and buying the next generation of vehicles. We can’t afford to lose any more jobs – especially here in Michigan.”
07.27.2011	Click here to watch a clip of Fred's opening remarks At this morning’s Energy and Power Subcommittee markup, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, called for bipartisan support of the “Pipeline Infrastructure and Community Protection Act of 2011.” This legislation, jointly sponsored by Upton and Congressman John D. Dingell (D-Dearborn), makes vital improvements to our nation’s vast pipeline infrastructure. U.S. pipeline safety is an issue of high priority for Upton, who is committed to making overdue updates to current pipeline standards. The bill passed the Subcommittee by voice vote and will next be considered before the full Energy and Commerce Committee. “Ensuring the integrity of our nation’s vast pipeline infrastructure is a matter of great importance to the public health and environment,” said Upton. “Pipeline safety is an issue that hits particularly close to home here in southwest Michigan, given last summer’s Enbridge pipeline rupture which tragically caused a massive spill into the Kalamazoo River. The status quo is unacceptable, which is why serious, bipartisan reform of our nation’s existing pipeline safety standards is necessary. As we work to meet our growing energy needs, we must contend with the fact that pipelines will continue to play an essential role in transporting vital energy supplies to folks in southwest Michigan and across the United States.” The July 25, 2010, Enbridge pipeline rupture in Marshall, Michigan, a city east of Upton’s congressional district, resulted in the spill of 20,000 barrels of oil into the Talmadge Creek, a tributary of the Kalamazoo River. Upon receiving notification of the spill, Upton worked aggressively with local officials and state and federal agencies to mitigate the incident’s impact on public health, property, and the environment. Pipeline safety and integrity are regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). PHMSA regulations set standards on the construction, operation, and spill response for the nation’s pipelines, and inspection and enforcement activities rely upon partnerships with state agencies. Congress last addressed comprehensive pipeline safety legislation in 2006 with the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement, and Safety (PIPES) Act.
07.26.2011	U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) today lined up behind efforts by the House GOP leadership to prevent a default on U.S. debt by securing significant federal spending cuts and following the House’s “Cut, Cap, and Balance” framework to begin putting our fiscal house back in order. The two-step approach the House will consider calls for immediate spending reductions that exceed the preliminary increase in the national debt ceiling, as well as a longer-term strategy to reduce federal spending and pursue a Balanced Budget Amendment. “There’s no question that we need to avoid default. Though the Senate failed to pass ‘Cut, Cap, and Balance,’ they also failed to pass any alternative to move forward on resolving the impasse. Both the House and Senate have agreed it would be a mistake to raise taxes, and I am hopeful we can pass an agreement that does focus on spending reductions that exceed any increase in the debt ceiling before the end of the week. My home state of Michigan’s unemployment rate has stood at over 10 percent for 31 consecutive months; we need a plan that protects struggling families and job creators and allows for economic growth and job creation. Failure means higher interest rates and greater economic uncertainty, which will hurt everyone. It’s time to act.”
07.26.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, praised House passage of bipartisan legislation to create jobs, lower energy prices, and fortify American energy security by supporting the expansion of the Keystone XL pipeline. Upton is an original cosponsor of H.R. 1938, the North American-Made Energy Security (NAMES) Act of 2011, which would expedite a Presidential Permit for a 1,661-mile extension of the energy pipeline from Alberta, Canada to refineries in the United States. Expansion of the pipeline would allow for the stable and secure transportation of 1.3 million barrels of oil to the United States each day as well as create more than 100,000 jobs. H.R. 1938 passed the House 279-147 and now heads to the Senate for further action. “We have a rare opportunity to simultaneously create thousands of good-paying jobs and fortify our nation’s energy security, but once again this administration has put political considerations ahead of sound policymaking,” said Upton. “There is no changing the fact that our nation’s energy needs will continue to grow. Unless that demand is met with an increased production of North American energy, Michigan families will become even more dependent on volatile oil-producing nations.” The application for the Presidential Permit required to move forward on the pipeline project has sat at the Department of State for nearly three years. The NAMES Act would require the President to issue a Presidential Permit decision by no later than November 1, 2011. Upton had sent a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton in November 2010, urging the administration to promptly approve the Presidential Permit application. Canada is currently the United States’ largest supplier of oil imports, sending over 2.5 million barrels per day to U.S. refineries in 2010. The Athabasca oil sands in Alberta currently produce 1.7 million barrels per day and recent projections estimate production will reach 2.1 million barrels per day by 2015. Because Canada is also the United States’ largest trading partner, it is estimated that for every American dollar spent on products from Canada, including oil, 91 cents is returned to the U.S. economy. Tomorrow the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on Energy and Power will consider vital legislation to improve the U.S. pipeline safety. Upton, the original sponsor of the bipartisan legislation, has made it a priority to pass comprehensive pipeline safety legislation this Congress.
07.22.2011	U.S. Senator Carl Levin (D-MI), House Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI06), and U.S. Congressman John D. Dingell (D-MI15) were joined by Michigan Delegation colleagues yesterday in sending a letter to President Obama regarding the importance of one national program for vehicle emissions. Below is the text of the letter: Dear Mr. President: We write to you today on the issue of a single national program for vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions for model years 2017-2025. This issue, if handled in the wrong way, would have a negative effect on our economy, stalling our economic recovery, and would result in critical American job losses with no benefit to the environment. The Center for Automotive Research recently published a report, based on data from the National Academy of Sciences, which suggested that overly stringent standards would cost approximately 260,000 jobs and add $10,000 to the cost of a new vehicle. An unsound program would both negatively impact U.S. jobs and drive consumers to used car lots for vehicles that are less fuel efficient, which would be a loss to environmental progress. We are deeply concerned that the Administration’s “starting” proposal of a five percent annual increase for cars and light trucks – to reach a goal of 56.2 miles per gallon in 2025 – is overly aggressive and not reasonably feasible. Such a proposal would push beyond the limits of reasonably feasible technology development and would have significant negative ramifications for U.S. jobs and competitiveness. Technology and economics must reasonably support the targets and goals for fuel economy improvement and greenhouse gas emissions reductions, and we are concerned that the Administration’s current approach is not leading in that direction. With that in mind, as members of the Michigan delegation, we want to bring to your attention several issues of concern in the ongoing discussions and suggest an approach to help bring the parties to an agreement. We understand that the Administration is now considering a 3.5 percent annual increase for light duty trucks for 2017-2021 and is working with the auto manufacturers to determine what flexibilities would be required to achieve that target. We also understand that the Administration is considering the possibility of a different approach for certain work trucks. While we appreciate the Administration’s efforts to understand the auto manufacturers’ future product plans, to understand the constraints the companies would face in meeting aggressive targets, and to offer credits and flexibilities to help with compliance, we believe that the overall targets currently proposed may exceed what is technologically achievable for the U.S. automakers that produce and sell the majority of the larger pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles that U.S. families and businesses – and tens of thousands of autoworkers – depend upon. More significantly, we are concerned that the Administration’s current approach for light duty trucks may have a discriminatory impact on these U.S. manufacturers. An approach to higher fuel economy that relies on the generation of credits from other than truck classes to reach compliance is not sustainable over the long-term and could have detrimental effects on U.S. automakers by expanding the gap between the regulatory requirements and what is technologically and economically achievable. This approach will put an increasingly heavy burden on U.S. auto manufacturers, who already must rely on credits earned for high fuel economy passenger cars to reach the aggressive fuel economy targets for light duty trucks in the regulatory requirements for model years 2012-2016, and may prevent them from selling these larger vehicles that U.S. consumers want to buy. Meanwhile, manufacturers that produce primarily smaller vehicles will have an unfair competitive advantage and will still be able to sell these larger vehicles that are no more fuel efficient. In other words, this has the potential to negate the significant reforms achieved by the Congress in 2007 that eliminated the discriminatory features of the old corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) system. We are also deeply concerned about the Administration’s plans for model years 2022-2025. As you know, the proposed standards cover a time horizon that is unprecedented in the history of fuel economy rulemaking. The initial year of the new standards is five model years away, and the endpoint stretches nearly fifteen years into the future. No previous fuel economy rulemaking has exceeded five model years or had a starting point so far into the future. That is why Congress has limited the authority of NHTSA to set fuel economy standards to no more than five model years at a time - in this case, 2017-2021. The purpose of the five-year limitation was to prevent standards being set too far out into the future, based on speculation or unreliable market and technology projections including the cost of technology, the cost of fuel, and consumer acceptance. Some of the undersigned question EPA’s authority to regulate motor vehicle fuel economy, directly or indirectly. However, if that authority is accepted, we believe that the same limitation of five years is appropriate for EPA regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. At a minimum, if the White House insists upon setting standards for 2022-2025, those standards should only go into effect if a mid-term review confirmed that the underlying assumptions were met and should specify that, in the absence of that confirmation, both agencies would commence a new rulemaking for that period. The burden of proof should be on the longer period – not the shorter one. Furthermore, there must be a clear mechanism for ensuring that any EPA regulations that go into effect are coordinated with the NHTSA rulemaking process and harmonized to continue a single national program for 2022-2025. Similarly, allowing California to be able to wield undue influence is simply not acceptable. Finally, we believe that the mid-term review should include a comprehensive joint agency assessment of the auto manufacturers' experience with the 2012-2016 and 2017+ rules to date at the time of the review to determine whether there have been any problems or concerns that would suggest a need for mid-course adjustments. We need a balanced approach to fuel economy regulation with reasonable and achievable targets that will reduce our consumption of oil and greenhouse gas emissions while preserving U.S. jobs and promoting U.S. manufacturing. We do not believe the Administration’s current proposal will achieve that balanced approach and believe instead it could have a detrimental effect on the U.S. economy. We urge you to consider further the Administration’s thinking in these areas – with special focus on the two issues we have raised – and consider carefully the potential impact on U.S. jobs and U.S. manufacturing. As a delegation, we bring to the table a range of views on this issue. However, with the Michigan unemployment rate standing at 10.5 percent, we are unanimous in our concern about the consequences of an excessive proposal, and we urge you to continue to work closely with U.S. manufacturers who have the most at stake. In that regard, we urge the Administration to sit down promptly and at one time with all three domestic auto manufacturers and the United Auto Workers to work through an acceptable solution to these issues. Sincerely, Debbie Stabenow Carl Levin Fred Upton John D. Dingell Dale Kildee Dave Camp Mike Rogers Sander Levin Candice Miller Gary Peters Thaddeus McCotter Justin Amash Tim Walberg Bill Huizenga Hansen Clarke Dan Benishek, M.D. To view a copy of the letter, click here
07.20.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement for this morning’s Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hearing regarding the impact of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) medical device regulation on patient access, innovation, and job creation. Upton has called for streamlining the FDA approval process of unnecessary and duplicative regulations that are currently forcing medical device research, development, and jobs overseas. There are an estimated 420,000 Americans working in the medical device industry, with some 1,700 jobs in Upton’s district and 9,000 jobs in the State of Michigan. Early last month, Upton joined leading industry representatives at Kalamazoo, Michigan based Stryker to discuss an agenda for American medical device competitiveness. The full text of Upton’s remarks prepared for delivery follow below: Let me begin by thanking the Chairman for holding this important hearing on the need for improvements to medical device regulation by the Food and Drug Administration. The United States’ leadership position in the global medical device industry is in jeopardy. American medical device companies are launching their products overseas and taking American jobs with them because of regulatory delays and uncertainty at FDA. In some instances, companies actually based in the U.S. are exiting the U.S. market entirely, largely due to the long delays and regulatory red tape at the FDA. This issue hits close to home since the device industry provides nearly 1,700 jobs in my district and 9,000 jobs in the entire state of Michigan. Review times have dramatically increased under this administration. This is not due to a decrease in funding. In fact, medical device review process appropriations increased from $275 million in 2008 to $368 million in 2010. The lagging approval time is a huge problem for patients and our economy. Our witnesses today will paint a compelling picture of how inefficiency and indecision affect patients, physicians, and innovative job-creators, particularly small businesses. Let me be very clear: patient safety is our utmost priority. The goal is not a lower safety threshold for the approval of medical devices. Nor should FDA implement a European-style review system. What we are advocating is greater transparency and predictability; timely and consistent guidance for industry; and less burdensome data requests – the FDA should actually follow the requirements of the “least burdensome” rule. Congress enshrined these principles and processes into the law. FDA leadership must follow the law and instill these principles and processes in its review staff. Only then will the medical device industry start moving again, create more jobs, and as a result, help our struggling economy. The overly burdensome regulations that are stifling American innovation and job creation must end. It is imperative that America maintains its leadership in this vital industry. I look forward to hearing from Dr. Shuren [Director, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Food and Drug Administration] on why the FDA has failed so far to provide the predictability and certainty that will help create jobs and provide our citizens access to life-saving innovations, and what the FDA intends to do going forward to fix it.
07.19.2011	U.S. Representative Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, this evening joined his House colleagues in voting to pass the “Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011” (H.R. 2560), an innovative three-pronged approach to tackle our nation’s soaring debt and put our fiscal house back in order. Specifically, this legislation would cut total spending by $111 billion in FY 2012, reducing non-defense discretionary spending below FY 2008, pre-stimulus levels; implement statutory spending caps to bring federal spending in line with the historic average of 20 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) by 2021; and require congressional passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution. Upton, a cosponsor of H.R. 2560, has long supported all three provisions of the bill as meaningful, long-term budgetary reforms. The bill passed the House 234-190 and now heads to the Senate for consideration. “Michigan families and small business owners have made the difficult choices to live within their means – it is long past time for Washington to do the same,” said Upton. “We simply cannot afford to continue spending money that we do not have. To restore economic confidence and encourage job creation, we must act to drastically reduce our debt burden and put our fiscal house back in order. That not only means substantial cuts in federal spending, but comprehensive reforms that will put us on a path to a balanced budget.” The U.S. Department of the Treasury has pegged August 2, 2011, as the day when the United States will exhaust its borrowing authority and begin defaulting on its debt, unless an agreement is reached to further raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. Two of the major credit rating agencies, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, have both warned that the U.S. government is dangerously close to having its AAA credit rating downgraded. Moody’s further indicated that “to retain a stable outlook, such an agreement should include a deficit trajectory that leads to stabilization and then decline in the ratios of federal government debt to GDP and debt to revenue beginning within the next few years.”
07.16.2011	This afternoon, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) presented the Purple Heart and National Defense Service Medal to Navy veteran George W. Wilson, Jr. of St. Joseph, Michigan. Wilson, a Seaman in the United States Naval Reserve from 1966 to 1971, was awarded the National Defense Service Medal for his honorable active service during the Vietnam War and the Purple Heart for wounds received in the infamous June 8, 1967 attack on the USS Liberty. Wilson was stationed on the Liberty in international waters off the coast of the Sinai Peninsula during the Six-Day War between Israel and the neighboring states of Egypt, Jordan, and Syria. On June 8th, the Liberty was mistakenly attacked and damaged by Israeli Defense Forces. Wilson was one of 170 Liberty crew members wounded in the Israeli attack, which left 34 Americans dead. Wilson’s family reached out to Upton for assistance in obtaining the overdue medals. Upton presented Wilson’s medals as a surprise during George Wilson’s family reunion barbeque. Although it has been more than four decades since he actively wore his military uniform, we as a nation remain ever grateful for George Wilson’s brave and selfless service to his country,” said Upton. “A mere 22 years old, Wilson was called to serve at a turbulent time in our nation’s history – American involvement in Vietnam had escalated and the stakes in the Cold War could not have been higher. Wilson did not hesitate in answering his nation’s call. We are the land of the free because of our brave.”
07.15.2011	At this morning’s Energy and Power Subcommittee hearing on the “Pipeline Infrastructure and Community Protection Act of 2011,” Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, called for bipartisan support of legislation to improve our nation’s vast pipeline infrastructure. Upton is committed to passing a law to make overdue updates and improvements in U.S. pipeline safety. (Click HERE to view Upton's full opening statement) “Pipeline safety is a serious matter of protecting human life and our environment,” said Upton. “Our nation’s 2.5 million miles of pipeline infrastructure deliver essential and affordable energy supplies every day to southwest Michigan and the rest of the country. Unfortunately, we are all too familiar with the unacceptable costs of a pipeline failure with last year's Enbridge rupture – one accident is too many and we must take the necessary steps to update current pipeline safety laws and work to ensure the integrity of our nation's pipeline network. As Chairman, this is an issue of great importance, and one that I hope we can all agree upon.” The July 25, 2010, oil pipeline rupture in Marshall, Michigan, a city east of Upton’s congressional district, resulted in the spill of 20,000 barrels of oil into the Talmadge Creek, a tributary of the Kalamazoo River. Upon receiving notification of the spill, Upton worked aggressively with local officials and state and federal agencies to mitigate the incident’s impact on public health, property, and the environment. Pipeline safety and integrity are regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). PHMSA regulations set standards on the construction, operation, and spill response for the nation’s pipelines, and inspection and enforcement activities rely upon partnerships with state agencies. Congress last addressed comprehensive pipeline safety legislation with the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement, and Safety (PIPES) Act of 2006, which contained authorization levels that expired in December 2010. However, as PHMSA is funded by industry user fees, safety and inspection programs remain active. To watch a video of Upton’s full opening statement, click HERE.
07.08.2011	U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) yesterday released a progress report on the committee’s work in the first half of the year, revealing that the panel has produced legislation to save taxpayers close to $90 billion, protect nearly 4 million jobs from being destroyed by job-crushing regulations, and create another 150,000+ jobs via American Energy Initiative legislation to increase domestic production and energy security while bringing down prices at the pump. These new numbers are included in the committee’s Second Quarter Report, which Upton released Wednesday evening to committee members and the House Republican leadership. “Creating jobs and helping put our state’s economy back on track remain my very top priorities,” said Upton. “The work we have been doing at Energy and Commerce supports an agenda that puts Michigan’s working families and job creators first. From promoting an ‘all of the above’ energy strategy that creates jobs, lowers energy prices, and fortifies our energy security, to putting a halt on overreaching, job-stifling regulations that affect all southwest Michigan companies, we are fulfilling our promise to the American people to put our economy first and make our nation more competitive.” The second quarter update summarizes major accomplishments and ongoing initiatives in each of the six subcommittees. Excerpts follow. Led by Chairman Mary Bono Mack and Vice Chairman Marsha Blackburn, the Commerce, Manufacturing, and Trade Subcommittee focused its work in the first half of this year on our nation’s economic infrastructure – the conditions and framework in which commerce occurs and jobs are created. This includes everything from trading partnerships and export opportunities to the security of consumer information and individual privacy in an increasingly digital world. … With Chairman Greg Walden at the helm alongside Vice Chairman Lee Terry, the Communications and Technology Subcommittee used the first six months of the 112th Congress to promote innovation and assure that federal policy keeps pace with a dynamic and growing technology marketplace. … Energy is at the forefront of the House agenda for the 112th Congress. Energy and Power Subcommittee Chairman Ed Whitfield and Vice Chairman John Sullivan deserve a great deal of credit for shepherding an aggressive, all-of-the-above energy agenda through our Committee and to the House floor. … Environment and the Economy Subcommittee Chairman John Shimkus and Vice Chairman Tim Murphy steered this newly created panel through one of the most eye-opening investigations in recent years, exposing rampant abuse of authority at the nation’s top nuclear regulatory authority. At the same time, this panel continues to play a central role in the effort to identify and provide relief from federal regulations that threaten American jobs. … Under the leadership of Chairman Joe Pitts and Vice Chairman Dr. Michael Burgess, the Health Subcommittee has been at the forefront of GOP efforts to expose the hidden costs and devastating consequences of Obamacare. After our historic vote to repeal the law on the House floor in January, the panel began dismantling Obamacare one program at a time, advancing a series of bills to save taxpayers tens of billions of dollars and eliminating the unchecked spending power of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). … With Chairman Cliff Stearns leading the charge in tandem with the Vice Chairs of the other five Subcommittees, the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee has conducted numerous inquiries into waste, fraud, and abuse within the Committee’s jurisdiction. … To read the full text of the memo from Chairman Upton, please click here.
06.23.2011	Today, the U.S. Committee on Energy and Commerce, chaired by Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), passed bipartisan legislation to create jobs, lower energy prices, and fortify American energy security by supporting the expansion of the Keystone XL pipeline. Upton is an original cosponsor of H.R. 1938, the North American-Made Energy Security Act, which would expedite a Presidential Permit for a 1,661-mile extension of the energy pipeline from Alberta, Canada to refineries in the United States. Expansion of the pipeline would allow for the transportation of 1.3 million barrels of oil to the United States each day as well as create more than 100,000 jobs. H.R. 1938 passed the Energy and Commerce Committee this afternoon by a bipartisan vote of 33-13 and now awaits action before the full House. “This is yet another instance of government bureaucracy impeding job creation and compromising our energy security,” said Upton. “While our growing energy needs must be met with increases in domestic production, Michigan families would much rather look to our energy-producing allies to the north than a hostile regime overseas. Shifting our oil imports to a friendly neighbor while also creating countless jobs here at home is a matter of common sense.” Upton had sent a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton last November, urging the administration to promptly approve the Presidential Permit application. A resolution was also introduced in the Michigan legislature last month by State Senator John Proos of Berrien County, calling on Secretary Clinton and the U.S. Congress to push for approval of the Keystone pipeline project.
06.22.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, praised this evening’s passage of bipartisan legislation to allow for expanded energy exploration in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). The Jobs and Energy Permitting Act (H.R. 2021) seeks to streamline the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) permitting process and eliminate needless regulatory delays that have prevented energy development in these waters. The bill, of which Upton is a cosponsor, passed the House by a vote of 253 to 166. “With summer finally here and Independence Day right around the corner, Michigan families are eager for relief at the gas pump,” said Upton. “As our nation’s energy needs continue to grow, demand must be met with a steady supply of American-made energy. The folks in southwest Michigan get it – they understand the basic tenets of supply and demand. This sensible, bipartisan legislation goes a long way to address the supply side of the equation by allowing for safe and vital energy production. Exploration has been stalled – in some instances for years – on account of bureaucratic uncertainty and confusion under current federal law. This bill takes energy exploration out of regulatory limbo, allowing us to focus our efforts on creating jobs and lowering prices with American-made energy.” Increased domestic energy production stands to benefit Michigan families through lower energy prices, greater energy security, and the creation of thousands of domestic jobs. The Jobs and Energy Permitting Act aims to eliminate uncertainty and confusion under the Clean Air Act that has delayed oil exploration in the Alaskan OCS – a region estimated to contain up to 30 billion barrels of oil and 122 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Some delays have lasted for years at a cost of billions of dollars to the private sector. While the EPA’s regional office has granted air permits to allow offshore drilling, the process has repeatedly been stalled at the agency’s Environmental Appeals Board. The proposed legislation would make three technical clarifications to the Clean Air Act and require EPA to take final action – either granting or denying a permit – within six months. Upton supports an “all of the above” energy strategy, a commonsense approach to meeting our nation’s growing energy needs through the development of domestic energy resources, a renewed commitment to safe nuclear power, and the utilization of renewable and alternative energy technologies.
06.16.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, participated in this morning’s Energy and Power Subcommittee hearing on pipeline safety. Upton is committed to moving meaningful, bipartisan legislation this summer to update and improve U.S. pipeline safety. “Pipeline safety is a serious matter of protecting human life and our environment,” said Upton. “Our nation’s nearly half a million miles of pipeline infrastructure play a critical role in delivering vital energy supplies to southwest Michigan and the rest of the country. Disasters like last summer’s Enbridge pipeline rupture underscore the unacceptable costs of failure and the need for meaningful updates to our current pipeline safety laws.” The July 25, 2010, oil pipeline rupture in Marshall, Michigan, a city east of Upton’s congressional district, resulted in the spill of 20,000 barrels of oil into the Talmadge Creek, a tributary of the Kalamazoo River. Upon receiving notification of the spill, Upton worked aggressively with local officials and state and federal agencies to mitigate the incident’s impact on public health, property, and the environment. Pipeline safety and integrity are regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). PHMSA regulations set standards on the construction, operation, and spill response for the nation’s pipelines, and inspection and enforcement activities rely upon partnerships with state agencies. Congress last addressed comprehensive pipeline safety legislation with the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement, and Safety (PIPES) Act of 2006, which contained authorization levels that expired in December 2010. However, as PHMSA is funded by industry user fees, safety and inspection programs remain active.
06.14.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today reiterated his call for the continued development of the Yucca Mountain repository for the safe, permanent storage of the nation’s spent nuclear fuel. Upton is a longtime supporter of safe nuclear power to meet the nation’s growing energy needs. His southwest Michigan district is home to the D.C. Cook and Palisades nuclear generating stations, which locally employ nearly 2,000 people and account for the largest revenue sources in Berrien and Van Buren counties, respectively. Upton participated in a hearing held this morning by the Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy to further examine the Obama administration’s hasty decision to shutter the Yucca fuel repository. Investigations into the administration’s termination of the project have already revealed significant internal legal and policy dissent from within the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). “We in southwest Michigan are very familiar with the benefits of nuclear – as both a local job creator and a safe, reliable source of energy,” said Upton. “It is time to move nuclear storage away from our lakeshores to an isolated location in the Nevada desert. Developing a safe, permanent storage site for the nation’s spent nuclear fuel is essential to our energy security as well as our national security. Rather than temporarily storing spent nuclear fuel at locations across the country, we should be locking that material away at a secure, centralized location. There is no room for politics to factor into our nation’s nuclear policy.” Today’s subcommittee hearing specifically focused on the questionable actions and possible political motivations of NRC Chairman Gregory Jaczko as he sought to terminate the Yucca Mountain project. Testimony was provided by NRC Inspector General Hubert Bell, whose recent report exposes details of how Chairman Jaczko manipulated the decision-making process at NRC to sabotage the Yucca project. The hearing comes on the heels of a report released by the Government Accountability Office, which found that “social and political opposition to a permanent repository, not technical issues, is the key obstacle” concerning Yucca. The proposed fuel repository at Yucca has been widely supported by the scientific community as a lasting solution to meet the nation’s long-term storage needs, and is the product of nearly three decades of research and investments of $15 billion.
06.07.2011	Yesterday afternoon, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) visited Eaton Corp’s Vehicle Group in Galesburg for an update on the division’s developments in revolutionary vehicle technologies as well as to discuss the impact of federal policies on local job growth and innovation. Upton has been a strong supporter of Eaton, having worked closely with the company for many years to assist in their efforts to build safer, more fuel efficient vehicles and create jobs in southwest Michigan. Upton serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, which has broad jurisdiction over energy and manufacturing-related issues and matters impacting the U.S. auto industry. “As Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I am committed to policies that help our local job creators like Eaton continue to hire and expand production,” said Upton. “Eaton is a tremendous presence in our community – a driving force for economic growth and job creation. Their development of cutting-edge vehicle technologies is truly exciting, and we need to make sure they continue to grow here in southwest Michigan.” “We appreciate the ongoing relationship and partnership that we have with Congressman Upton,” said Ken Davis, President of Eaton’s Vehicle Group. “Fred has been a leader to help ensure that federal policy helps these emerging technologies get to market faster. The technologies being developed and deployed here are helping us accomplish two important goals: reduce fuel costs for our customers and increase our nation’s energy security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil.”
06.06.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today joined Stryker CEO Steve MacMillan and leading industry representatives along with U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow for a press conference to highlight America’s role as the world’s leading innovator in medical technology and the urgent need to maintain industry competitiveness. The event was hosted by the Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed), which unveiled its “Competitiveness Agenda,” a series of policy recommendations to ensure the vitality of the industry. Upton, Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, has called for streamlining the FDA approval process for new and innovative devices to keep jobs from moving overseas. There are an estimated 420,000 Americans working in the medical device industry with some 9,000 in Michigan. The current Medical Device User Fee Act expires in September 2012. The Food and Drug Administration has not met the current performance goals outlined in the current legislation and will report their recommendations to the House Energy and Commerce Committee early next year. “As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, jobs are my number one priority - especially bringing jobs to Michigan,” said Upton. “While the medical device industry has flourished and created jobs despite our difficult economic times, unnecessary government regulations are now threatening American competitiveness and we are seeing exports drop and jobs move overseas. Reforming the Medical Device User Fee Act gives us an opportunity to ensure the revolutionary devices being developed by Stryker and other American firms are not delayed or kept off the market by bureaucratic red tape. These state-of-the-art devices are saving lives, lowering costs, and drastically improving the quality of life for countless folks, and we want them to be made right here in Michigan, and all across America.” Upton believes streamlining the process of unnecessary and duplicative regulations will keep U.S. companies competitive on the global market. FDA delays are currently forcing medical device research and development, as well as new product approvals, to Europe. With design and approval shifting overseas, medical device exports have declined significantly and are expected to worsen as more devices are manufactured overseas.
05.31.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) praised this evening’s House vote to reject a so-called “clean” increase in the statutory debt limit, which would raise the debt limit without reductions in federal spending or budgetary reforms. The measure, H.R. 1954, would have provided for a $2.4 trillion increase to the nation’s already-historic $14.3 trillion debt limit – the amount necessary under the President’s proposed budget for Fiscal Year 2012. The increase was soundly rejected by a bipartisan vote of 97-318, with 82 Democrats and 236 Republicans voting in opposition. “We can no longer afford to continue down the path to fiscal ruin by spending money we simply do not have,” said Upton. “Throwing another $2.4 trillion of debt at the problem will not put our nation’s fiscal house back in order. To protect our children and grandchildren from an avalanche of debt, we must push for dramatic cuts in spending as well as comprehensive reforms of both the federal budget and the overly burdensome tax code. Michigan families and small businesses have had to make difficult decisions to live within their means; it’s time for Uncle Sam to do the same. This vote certainly sends the signal that the spending and deficit eras of the past have to end.”
05.25.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, praised the Subcommittee on Energy and Power for its passage of bipartisan legislation to allow for expanded energy exploration in the Alaskan Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). More specifically, the Jobs and Energy Permitting Act would streamline the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) permitting process and eliminate needless regulatory delays that have prevented energy development in these waters. The draft legislation passed out of the subcommittee by voice vote yesterday. “With Memorial Day right around the corner, Michigan families are eager for relief at the gas pump,” said Upton. “Even as our nation’s energy needs continue to grow, domestic production remains on the decline. The people in southwest Michigan get it – they understand the basic tenets of supply and demand. This sensible, bipartisan legislation goes a long way to address the supply side of the equation by streamlining the permitting process for vital energy exploration. Future exploration has been stalled – in some instances for years – on account of bureaucratic uncertainty and confusion under current federal law. This bill takes energy exploration out of regulatory limbo, allowing us to focus our efforts on creating jobs and lowering prices through American-made energy.” The Jobs and Energy Permitting Act aims to eliminate uncertainty and confusion under the Clean Air Act that has delayed oil exploration in the Alaskan OCS – a region which the U.S. Geological Survey estimates to contain 27.9 billion barrels of oil and 122 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Some delays have lasted for years at a cost of billions of dollars to the private sector. While the EPA’s regional office has granted air permits to allow offshore drilling, the process has repeatedly been stalled when the Administrator’s Environmental Appeals Board further delays the permit already granted. The proposed legislation would make three technical clarifications to the Clean Air Act to eliminate such needless delays as well as require EPA action – either granting or denying a permit – within six months. Upton supports an “all of the above” energy strategy, a commonsense approach to meeting our nation’s growing energy needs through the development of domestic energy resources, a renewed commitment to safe nuclear power, and the utilization of renewable and alternative energy technologies.
05.19.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today joined Congresswoman Candice S. Miller (R-Harrison Township, Mich.) in leading the bipartisan effort to ensure that federal revenues derived for harbor maintenance dredging through the Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) are fully used for their intended purpose – maintaining our ports, harbors, and waterways. Upton has been a leading supporter of seasonal dredging projects in southwest Michigan to ensure area harbors remain open to commercial traffic, which thousands of local jobs and countless businesses are dependent upon. “Ensuring our harbors remain open and ready for business is essential to jobs and economic activity in southwest Michigan,” said Upton. “With today’s great fiscal challenges, it is simply unacceptable for the administration to continue denying our harbors these vital dredging dollars – instead keeping these unused revenues ‘on the books’ to offset unrelated federal spending. It’s time for some honest bookkeeping and for the surplus Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund revenues to be used for their intended purpose: enabling our harbors to remain active bastions of economic growth.” In recent years, proceeds collected from the HMT have significantly outpaced federal dollars allocated for vital dredging projects, resulting in a surplus in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) in excess of $6 billion. The President’s own budget for FY 2012 estimates that the HMT will collect more than $1.5 billion in revenue, while only roughly half will actually be used for harbor and channel dredging funds. The remaining revenues will continue to accumulate, unused, in the HMTF. In a letter to the leaders of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Upton and others are asking that all proceeds collected from the HMT be used for purposes of dredging our nation’s ports, harbors, and waterways, as was originally intended. Utilizing these already available, unused funds in the HMTF would mean more funding for harbor maintenance, but not require new or increased sources of revenue. The full text of the letter to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee is below: Dear Chairmen Mica, Duncan, and Gibbs and Ranking Members Rahall, DeFazio, and Bishop: As leaders of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, you can imagine the public outrage that would develop if the fuel taxes we all pay did not get used to build and maintain roads and infrastructure as intended. The American people would feel cheated, and rightly so. The fuel tax is a user fee that we all contribute to in order to ensure we have safe and adequate roads over which to travel. Unfortunately, the scenario above is happening right now in the world of maritime transportation. Currently, shippers pay a Harbor Maintenance Tax that is intended to go into a Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, and in turn is intended to be used to ensure that our harbors are adequately dredged and maintained to keep our maritime commerce afloat. However, only about half of annual Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund revenue is spent for its authorized purposes because the Trust Fund is unprotected. Currently, the Administration chooses to use this multi-billion dollar surplus to balance out other deficits, so that balance really represents an IOU due to the amount of federal debt accumulated by other programs. The Administration’s FY12 budget request indicates that it intends to allow federal agencies to expend the remainder of annual Trust Fund revenue on federal agency operating expenses that are currently being paid for out of the general fund of the Treasury. By failing to spend the Trust Fund for its intended purpose the Administration has effectively abdicated its maintenance dredging responsibilities. This is to the detriment of both commercial and recreational harbors across the country. While the commercial harbors are critical to the movement of goods, the recreational harbors in America serve as economic engines from coast to coast, oftentimes located in small towns and seen as the focal points for the communities they serve. Even those harbors that don’t pay the ad valorem Harbor Maintenance Tax heavily contribute to their communities through sales taxes, slip fees, and the economic impact boaters have on the shops, restaurants, and other businesses surrounding the harbors. We request that the Committee take up this issue as soon as possible, and stand ready to assist in this matter. Harbors across the country are in great distress. A failure to act will result in the closure of recreational harbors across the country which will bring great harm to local economies that are already in peril, and the detriment caused to commercial commerce will seriously affect our economy as well. Please protect the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund by making certain this funding goes toward its intended purpose and providing direction on Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund expenditures to ensure the Trust Fund is used to properly maintain all of our nation’s authorized waterways and harbors, both commercial and recreational. We appreciate your time and attention to this critical matter. Sincerely, Rep. Candice S. Miller Rep. Fred Upton Rep. Jeffrey M. Landry Rep. Charles W. Boustany, Jr. Rep. John Conyers, Jr. Rep. Walter B. Jones Rep. Ted Poe Rep. Bill Huizenga Rep. Ron Paul Rep. Cathy McMorris-Rodgers Rep. Jo Bonner Rep. Elijah E. Cummings Rep. Pete Olson Rep. Gregg Harper Rep. Mike Kelly Rep. David Wu Rep. Michael G. Grimm Rep. James F. Sensenbrenner, Jr. Rep. Dan Benishek Rep. Michael K. Simpson Rep. Kevin Brady Rep. Dennis J. Kucinich Rep. Alcee L. Hastings Rep. Jerry F. Costello Rep. John C. Carney, Jr. Rep. Robert E. Latta Rep. Dennis A. Cardoza Rep. Blake Farenthold Rep. William L. Owens Rep. Thomas E. Petri
05.05.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today praised House passage of legislation, H.R. 1230, to increase America’s domestic energy production by proceeding with already-scheduled oil and natural gas lease sales in the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Virginia. By focusing on the resources we have here at home, America can fortify its energy security while creating jobs for struggling Michigan families and protecting them from skyrocketing gas and energy prices. H.R. 1230 passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 266-149 and now proceeds to the Senate for consideration. Upton made the following statement this morning on the House Floor in support of this legislation and America’s energy future: Most Americans understand the concept of supply and demand. And, in fact, a third of our oil now comes from the Gulf. The Department of Energy Information Agency tells us that last year’s production in the Gulf was 20 percent less than projected in 2007. And in 2012, we are going to be getting a half-a-million-barrels-a-day decline in production from 2010. What happens when the production goes down and the demand goes up? The price goes up – way up. Add to that the uncertainty and unrest in the Middle East, and there is no surprise that we have gas prices at $4 and $5 now in this country, and who knows where they are headed. This legislation – if we pass it today, get it enacted – helps turn the key to unlocking the door on domestic energy production. This legislation is not about new lease sales, it simply catches up with the leases already approved. Upton supports an “all of the above” energy strategy, a commonsense approach to meeting our nation’s growing energy needs through the development of domestic energy resources, a renewed commitment to safe nuclear power, and the utilization of renewable and alternative energy technologies. Click HERE to watch Upton’s statement on the House Floor.
05.03.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) this morning attended a ceremony in the U.S. Capitol rotunda to witness the unveiling of a statue honoring President Gerald R. Ford. Upton offered a concurrent resolution this past March, H.Con.Res.27, which authorized the placement of the statue of President Ford in the rotunda. The resolution, which was cosponsored by all 14 other members of Michigan’s congressional delegation, passed both legislative chambers with unanimous, bipartisan support. “As one who has the honor and privilege of representing some of the very same people in southwest Michigan that President Ford did during his time in the House, it gives me great pleasure to witness this fitting tribute to Michigan’s native son,” said Upton. “In addition, I had the honor to be present at the White House on President Ford’s last full day of office. President Gerald Ford is a Michigan original and a model for all those called to public service. A seemingly ordinary American who unexpectedly found himself in the presidency at one of our nation’s most tumultuous times, Gerald Ford led with his Midwestern values. By standing above the political fray, President Ford allowed a wounded nation to heal.” The statue of President Ford will be replacing a statue of Michigan politician and abolitionist Zachariah Chandler. Under federal law, each state is eligible to display up to two statues within the Capitol at a given time. Each statue is a gift of the home state, approved and provided for in accordance with that particular state’s legislature. The placement of the statue is then approved by the U.S. Congress, which may also approve the replacement of a statue. Today, the U.S. Capitol houses 100 statues contributed by the 50 states.
04.09.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement in response to an agreement reached this evening by House Republicans and the White House to avoid a shutdown of the government while also enacting historic cuts in federal spending. Final details to cut federal spending some $78.5 billion below the President’s 2011 budget proposal will continue to be negotiated between the House and Senate through April 14th. Tonight, the Congress passed a short-term resolution that will keep the government running through Thursday, and will cut the first $2 billion in total savings. “The American people sent us to Washington with a clear mandate to rein in out-of-control spending, and that is exactly what we are doing,” said Upton. “This agreement represents the largest year-to-year spending cut since World War II, but is only the first step as we continue to work toward addressing our nation’s long-term fiscal challenges. More fundamentally, it ensures that essential federal services remain operational and that our armed services continue to receive the support they so rightly deserve. We can no longer afford to get by spending money we don’t have – passing along an avalanche of debt to future generations. I heard from a good number of our troops serving overseas whose paychecks were threatened due to the potential shutdown. A short-term Continuing Resolution allowing us to finish the 2011 Appropriations for the Fiscal Year is the proper thing to do.”
04.08.2011	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a bipartisan Resolution of Disapproval coauthored by Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, to reverse the Federal Communication Commission’s (FCC) “network neutrality” rules. The FCC approved its new Internet regulations this past December after a federal court ruled the agency lacked such regulatory authority. The House resolution (H.J.Res.37) comes under the Congressional Review Act, which allows Congress the opportunity to repeal recently enacted agency regulations. H.J.Res.37 passed the House this afternoon by a vote of 240-179. As per the Congressional Review Act, the filibuster-proof resolution now moves to the Senate for consideration, where only a simple majority vote is necessary for passage. “People in southwest Michigan know that the Internet is free and flourishing today without the guiding hand of unelected government bureaucrats,” said Upton. “The FCC’s overreaching regulations will cause more harm than good by stifling private innovation, investment, and jobs. George Will put it best when he observed that most Americans believe the Internet works great and the U.S. government does not – so why on earth would we want to put the government in charge of the Internet? Free market principles and consumer demand have been the driving forces of the Internet’s success and should remain so today.”
04.07.2011	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed bipartisan legislation coauthored by Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which would protect jobs and keep gas and energy prices low by preventing the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from regulating the emission of greenhouse gases to address climate change. H.R. 910, the Energy Tax Prevention Act of 2011, passed the House this afternoon by a vote of 255 - 172. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. “Today’s vote was a victory for Michigan families who stand to bear the greatest costs of EPA’s overreaching regulations,” said Upton. “This is the same debate we had last year when both Congress and the American people soundly rejected the cap-and-trade regulatory scheme. The rules supported by EPA seek the same ends as cap-and-trade and are no less costly in terms of lost American jobs and higher energy prices. Left unchecked, EPA’s actions would have a devastating impact on jobs, U.S. competitiveness, and domestic energy prices. Southwest Michigan’s families and small business owners have struggled and sacrificed long enough. They will not stand by as a group of unelected bureaucrats indefinitely prolong our economic recovery.” The Energy Tax Prevention Act simply prevents EPA from using the Clean Air Act to regulate greenhouse gases, an intention that Congress explicitly rejected when the Clean Air Act was last reauthorized in 1990. H.R. 910 preserves the Clean Air Act as it stands today and does not prevent EPA from continuing to monitor and reduce nearly 200 hazardous pollutants – like lead and ozone – that damage public health. Because EPA’s greenhouse gas regulations are designed to achieve similar goals as cap-and-trade legislation, these regulations are similarly expected to drive up energy prices for families and make it more expensive for small businesses to hire and do business.
04.06.2011	The Energy Tax Prevention Act, H.R. 910, is designed to stop the EPA from using the Clean Air Act to unilaterally impose greenhouse gas regulations to address climate change. Unless Congress intervenes, the EPA’s efforts to impose a cap-and-trade agenda threaten to drive gas prices even higher, increase utility rates, send manufacturing jobs overseas, and hamstring our economic recovery. Read Upton’s remarks online HERE. View video HERE.
04.05.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) gave the following tribute in recognition of the men’s basketball team at Schoolcraft High School on winning the Class C state title. The Schoolcraft Eagles defeated the McBain Ramblers 73-59 on March 26, 2011. Upton made his tribute in the Congressional Record on April 5, 2011. The full text of Upton’s remarks follows below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Eagles of Schoolcraft High School on their men’s basketball state championship title. These outstanding young men have worked hard for this accomplishment and have made their community very proud. Their 73-59 victory is an achievement that will be remembered forever. Winning a state championship is a remarkable achievement that few teams ever experience. This championship is a legacy that the 2010-2011 Eagles will remember forever. The Eagles and Coach Randy Small, along with assistant coaches Bob Saxman, Derrick Small, Lee Ingram, Jon Tone, and Aaron Beery, know that success comes through teamwork and dedication. The Eagles’ commitment to the game and their drive to go the extra mile, led them to victory. It is an honor to pay tribute to the entire Eagles squad: Jon Cakmakci, Kody Chandler, Benny Clark, Zac Decker, Tyler Dow, Bryan Jones, Blake Krum, Jonathan Lawrence, Jacob Lenning, Jacob Marshall, Luke Ryskamp, Joe Savage, Cam Schwartz, Jeffrey Scott, and Trent Skippers. We salute all of you. On behalf of all the residents of southwest Michigan, congratulations again to the Schoolcraft Eagles, Coach Small, and the entire Schoolcraft community – you are an inspiration to us all. Go Eagles! Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
04.05.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) gave the following tribute in recognition of the men’s basketball team at Kalamazoo Central High School on winning their second consecutive Class A state title. The Kalamazoo Central Maroon Giants defeated the Detroit Southeastern Jungaleers 46-42 on March 26, 2011. Upton made his tribute in the Congressional Record on April 5, 2011. The full text of Upton’s remarks follows below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Maroon Giants of Kalamazoo Central High School on their second straight Michigan state championship win in men’s basketball. These outstanding young men have worked hard for this accomplishment and have made their community very proud. Winning a state championship is a remarkable achievement that few teams attain. Winning back-to-back championships is an incredible legacy that will live with Kalamazoo Central forever. The Maroon Giants and Coach Mike Thomas know what brought this second straight state title back to Kalamazoo – hard work. It was running that one extra sprint and shooting that extra free throw after practice that helped make the Maroon Giants champions. Nobody outworked the Giants, and nobody could beat them in the state tournament, and nobody had a greater following or more community support. The Giants truly lived up to their name on the court. It is an honor to pay tribute to the entire Maroon Giants squad: Tyler Bell, Allie Buchanan, Teris Buchanan, TJ Buchanan, Jamaal Conger, Brandon Delk, Juwan Gamble, Lee Gardner, H’ian Hale, Quante Hill, JeRon Johnson, Mark Justice, Daquavion McCants-Wilson, De’tavia Moore, Darius Norman, Von Washington III, and Davarius Williams. I also want to recognize head coach Mike Thomas and assistant coaches Thomas Dillard, Anthony Stuckey, Matt Price, Brandon Williams, Tim Gleeson, Alan Lee and team manager Aminder Sohi. We salute all of you. On behalf of all the residents of southwest Michigan, congratulations again to the Maroon Giants, Coach Thomas, and the entire Kalamazoo community – you are an inspiration to us all. It is Giant pride at its finest. Go Giants! Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
04.05.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today praised Senate passage of House legislation that repeals the harmful 1099 tax reporting requirement from the healthcare overhaul. Upton is an original cosponsor of the House bill – H.R. 4, the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011 – which today passed the Senate by a vote of 87 to 12, after having passed the House 314 to 112 on March 3. The bill now heads to the White House in order for the President to sign the bill into law. The Obama administration has acknowledged that repealing this provision is “the right thing to do.” “This legislation is a major victory for Michigan’s small businesses who are on the frontlines of our economic recovery,” said Upton. “As this bipartisan legislation clearly demonstrates, even the most unwavering proponents of the healthcare overhaul had no idea what was in it before voting for it. Repealing this hidden tax reporting requirement will save every single business owner from a mountain of IRS paperwork, allowing them to focus their efforts on creating jobs, not complying with new federal requirements. Going forward, we will continue to fight to protect American families and small businesses from the costly, overreaching mandates in the healthcare law – repealing this provision is only the beginning.” The provision targeted by H.R. 4, found on page 737 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, will force small businesses to file separate 1099 IRS reporting forms for every single business-to-business transaction that exceeds $600 in a given year, beginning in 2012. Under current law, businesses are required to report services provided by non-corporate entities. This provision of the health care bill greatly expands that requirement by extending it to all corporations that are not tax-exempt. Compliance means such basic day-to-day business expenses as telecommunication services, utility repairs, and office supplies will now be subject to IRS disclosure. Not only does this provision directly put an onerous tax reporting burden on small business, it also has the added impact of changing the way companies conduct their business with outside vendors. Faced with the prospect of a mountain of IRS forms, many companies will find it more convenient to turn to large global suppliers rather than negotiate with a number of smaller, local companies. Repealing the 1099 provision is a top priority of the Small Business Association of Michigan. Upton is also an original cosponsor of legislation, H.R. 2, to repeal the healthcare law in its entirety.
03.31.2011	The United States Chamber of Commerce has presented Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) with its prestigious “Spirit of Enterprise” award for his strong support for a pro-economic growth legislative agenda in the second session of the 111th Congress. Among other things, Upton was recognized for his strong support of extending tax relief for working families and small businesses as well as for standing firmly against overreaching regulations and job-destroying mandates. “The Chamber is honored to recognize Representative Upton for helping create an environment in which businesses can grow and create jobs,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “He has shown great conviction by standing on the side of business, at a time when it matters most. Today we honor him.” The Chamber annually recognizes Members of Congress with the “Spirit of Enterprise” award based on rankings it gives for key business votes outlined in its annual publication, How They Voted. Upton has compiled a 93 percent cumulative ranking with the Chamber during his tenure in Congress. “Small businesses are on the front lines of our nation’s recovery, leading the way for local job creation and economic growth,” said Upton. “Instead of burdening Michigan employers with overreaching regulations and costly new mandates, Congress must continue to focus on policies that encourage small businesses to expand and create jobs here at home.” The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation, representing more than three million businesses and organizations of every size, sector, and region.
03.30.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, made the following opening statement at today’s Health Subcommittee hearing, which considered the costs that will be imposed through the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. Congressional Budget Office Director Doug Elmendorf, CMS Chief Actuary Rick Foster, economists, and job creators testified on the true cost of the healthcare law and its effects on the budget, jobs, healthcare costs, and access to quality medical care. “We just marked the one-year anniversary of the health care bill being signed into law,” said Upton. “Yet today will be the committee’s first chance to fully explore the true fiscal impact the law will have on our country.” Among the new regulations and mandates within PPACA are a variety of provisions directly impacting employers, including a mandate to provide coverage to employees, benefit mandates and requirements on current employer-provided health coverage, disclosure and information obligations, and expansion of tax-filing requirements. These new obligations imposed on employers could have adverse consequences for both the cost of employer-provided health coverage and the labor market. On the healthcare overhaul’s impact on jobs, Upton continued, “Job creators around the country have spoken loud and clear. PPACA imposes massive new burdens on them that stifle growth and job creation. Many of the country’s largest employers reported hundreds of millions of dollars in losses as a result of this law – jeopardizing investment and jobs when we need them the most.” To illustrate the healthcare overhaul’s affect on employers, witnesses from various sectors of the small business community provided testimony at today’s hearing. A representative from the restaurant industry and an independent restaurateur from Upton’s home district, Larry Schuler provided the subcommittee a better understanding of how the healthcare law will significantly impact his employees and how he runs his business, and urged congressional action to make fundamental changes. “As a small business owner from Michigan – by almost anyone’s account, the hardest economically hit state in the country – I am deeply alarmed by the new employer mandates in the healthcare overhaul and the adverse impact this law will have on both me and my employees,” Schuler later commented. “I applaud Fred for calling today’s hearing to investigate the true costs of the new healthcare law, particularly for employers who are trying to lead the way for job creation and economic growth.” The full text of Upton’s prepared opening remarks can be found HERE. Schuler’s prepared written testimony can be found HERE.
03.28.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St.Joseph) today announced that Emily Lamanna of Stevensville has been accepted to attend the United States Naval Academy. Upton, who recommended Ms. Lamanna for selection to the prestigious service academy, personally congratulated Emily on her appointment. Emily is currently a senior at Lakeshore High School. “I am thrilled to announce Emily’s appointment to the United States Naval Academy,” said Upton. “Emily is a remarkable young woman who has excelled at Lakeshore High School. She has successfully undergone a rigorous selection process, athletically and academically, and our entire community should be proud of her achievements, both in and outside of the classroom. This exemplary young woman represents the very best that Michigan has to offer. I encourage local students who aspire to follow in Emily’s footsteps to contact my office to open a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our nation.” Each year, Upton nominates students from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in their respective high schools and have gone through a rigorous selection process. The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board that is comprised of community leaders. Upon approval by the board, Emily’s name was then passed on to Upton, who then officially nominated the Lakeshore High School senior to the Naval Academy. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Emily Lamanna makes the third appointment to come out of Lakeshore High School this spring. Madelyn Johnson was appointed to the United States Air Force Academy and Andrew McDougall was appointed to the United State Naval Academy in Annapolis. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact either of Upton’s district offices for further information: Twin Cities (269-982-1986) or Kalamazoo (269-385-0039).
03.25.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) yesterday completed a three-day series of 18 public listening sessions that included stops in Allegan, Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo, St. Joseph, and Van Buren counties. The events, which were held from March 22-24, were attended by thousands of southwest Michigan residents. The listening tour allowed constituents to share their views with Upton on issues facing Michigan and the country. Some of the federal matters that were discussed included jobs and the economy, spending and the national debt, gas prices and domestic energy production, healthcare, Social Security, government reform, and the environment. “There is nothing more valuable to me than hearing directly from the folks that I am elected to represent. The input I receive here at home is essential to me in performing my duties, both in Michigan and back in Washington,” said Upton. “Every stop had a better-than-expected turn out – most events were standing room only. I am appreciative of everyone who was able to make it out, as well as for the many community leaders that made this tour run so successful. As someone who has always worked to keep the lines of communication open with my constituents – whether it’s returning to Michigan nearly every week or reading and signing all of my legislative mail – I could not be more pleased with the level of interest and the thoughtful views that were shared. The challenges facing Michigan and our nation are simply too great and finding the best solutions will take all of us coming together. My door is always open, and I look forward to the continued input from folks in our corner of Michigan.” Another popular topic of discussion was Upton’s recently introduced Energy Tax Prevention Act (H.R. 910), which would prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from regulating carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. “If left unchecked, the EPA’s regulatory efforts will destroy U.S. jobs, make America less competitive, and result in substantially higher energy prices for everyone. Such regulatory authority can only come from elected legislators, not unelected bureaucrats. We must not allow this administration to regulate what they have been unable to legislate,” said Upton. Upton also addressed the 2010 healthcare overhaul: “Many of us remember the President’s repeated promise that if you like your current coverage you can keep it. Well, for so many folks, that will simply not be true. Now that two federal judges have ruled the bill unconstitutional I’ve encouraged the Supreme Court to expedite a ruling before all our states spend tens of millions of dollars preparing for the state exchange.” On the federal budget, Upton commented, “Our current fiscal path is simply unsustainable. The time has come to rein in the size and scope of government, which have led to economic uncertainty and threaten to bury future generations of Americans under an avalanche of debt. American families have made the difficult choices to balance their own budgets – it is time for the government to do the same. We simply can’t continue to spend money we don’t have.” Upton continued, “On the tax side, particularly as we close in on April 15th, it is important that this Congress address real tax reform – something that has not happened in decades. There has been much discussion on bills like the FairTax and flat tax without even a hearing. I am encouraged that we can seek bi-partisan cooperation in addressing the many concerns raised this week.”
03.25.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) was recognized this afternoon by the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) with the organization’s Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. Upton was presented the award on behalf of southwest Michigan manufacturers. “We’ve lost one in five manufacturing jobs in America the last few years. Almost half those jobs lost were in Michigan. We need to pursue policies that turn things around. I’m very happy to receive this award which recognizes my continuing commitment to jobs in our economy. Manufacturers form the backbone of our nation’s economy and are busily leading the way for our economic recovery,” said Upton. “We need to protect American workers, and oppose policies that ship our jobs overseas.” Upton has been honored with this prestigious recognition in every Congress since NAM established the award in 1997.
03.21.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St.Joseph) today announced that Madelyn Rose Johnson of Stevensville has been accepted to attend the United States Air Force Academy. Upton, who recommended Ms. Johnson for selection to the prestigious service academy, personally congratulated Madelyn on her appointment. Madelyn is currently a senior at Lakeshore High School. “I am thrilled to announce Madelyn’s appointment to the United States Air Force Academy,” said Upton. “Madelyn is a remarkable young woman who has excelled at Lakeshore High School. She has successfully undergone a rigorous selection process, athletically and academically, and our entire community should be proud of her achievements, both in and outside of the classroom. This exemplary young woman represents the very best that Michigan has to offer. I encourage local students who aspire to follow in Madelyn’s footsteps to contact my office to open a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our nation.” Each year, Upton nominates students from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in their respective high schools and have gone through a rigorous selection process. The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board that is comprised of community leaders. Upon approval by the board, Madelyn’s name was then passed on to Upton, who then officially nominated the Lakeshore High School senior to the Air Force Academy. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact either of Upton’s district offices for further information: Twin Cities (269-982-1986) or Kalamazoo (269-385-0039).
03.16.2011	The House Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI), yesterday passed the Energy Tax Prevention Act (H.R. 910) and H.J.Res. 37, a congressional resolution disapproving the Federal Communications Commission’s Internet rules. These bills are designed to rein in overreaching federal regulators by setting aside controversial Internet rules and stopping the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from driving up energy prices and shipping U.S. jobs overseas. “I applaud the committee’s approval of two important bills that will next be considered by the full House as we work to create jobs, keep energy costs from rising unnecessarily, and rein in the explosive expansion of government,” said Upton. “We will not allow this administration to regulate what it had failed to legislate last Congress. Today, we stand up for jobs and families as we fight a brazen government takeover of the Internet and overreaching EPA regulations that will send jobs overseas and increase gasoline and energy prices. With these bills, we are putting the brakes on a runaway federal government and restoring the principles of free enterprise and personal liberty.” The bipartisan Energy Tax Prevention Act, which prevents the EPA from transforming the Clean Air Act into a vehicle to impose costly greenhouse gas regulations to address climate change, passed through committee by a bipartisan vote of 34 to 19. Unless Congress intervenes, the EPA’s efforts to impose a cap-and-trade agenda threaten to drive gas prices even higher, increase utility rates, send manufacturing jobs overseas, and hamstring our economic recovery. The bill garnered the support of three of the panel’s Democrats. Gasoline prices are already nearing $4.00/gallon and any further constraints on our domestic energy capacity or self-imposed increases on the costs of production will drive prices at the pump even higher. Studies have estimated that previous legislative efforts to cap greenhouse gas emissions would drive up gas prices 19 cents by 2015 and 95 cents in 2050. Because EPA’s greenhouse gas regulations are designed to achieve similar goals as cap-and-trade legislation, and because such regulations would directly impact domestic refineries and production, the regulations are similarly expected to drive up the price of gasoline. “I am pleased that the Committee voted to send this important piece of legislation to the full House for consideration, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in passing this bill with a strong, bipartisan vote,” said Subcommittee Chairman Ed Whitfield (R-KY). “This bill does not roll back the Clean Air Act in any way. Rather this bill stops EPA from imposing far-reaching and costly regulations without regard for their impact on the economy and jobs. Any decision of this magnitude deserves consideration by elected members of Congress and must not be ceded to unelected executive branch staff. This bill will help to preserve jobs and protect our ability to remain competitive in a global economy.” The committee also approved H.J.Res 37, a resolution to overturn the FCC’s overreaching Internet rules, by a vote of 30 to 23. Prior to the vote, the Communications and Technology Subcommittee heard from cable and Internet providers, economists, and even FCC commissioners, who expressed concern regarding the consequences the FCC’s rules would have on job creation, innovation, and investments. “The Internet is open and thriving and creating jobs because of the hands-off approach the government has taken to date,” said Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR). “The resolution of disapproval will nullify the FCC’s launch of a government takeover of the Internet and restore certainty to the marketplace.”
03.16.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) will be hosting a three-day series of 18 public listening sessions throughout Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District, from March 22-24. The events will allow constituents the opportunity to share their views with Upton on the issues facing Michigan and the country. Each listening stop will last roughly 60 minutes. “There is nothing more important to me than hearing from the folks in southwest Michigan on the issues that matter to them. The input I receive here at home is invaluable to me in my duties both in Michigan and in Washington,” said Upton. “The challenges facing our state and nation are too great for any one political party or platform – we simply cannot overcome them without working together and making sure the lines of communication always remain open. With a new Congress and real challenges confronting our nation, I look forward to listening to folks across our corner of the state.” TUESDAY, MARCH 22nd Galesburg Tuesday, March 22 8:00 a.m. Galesburg City Hall 200 E. Michigan Ave. Portage Tuesday, March 22 10:00 a.m. Portage City Hall 7900 S. Westnedge Ave. Kalamazoo Tuesday, March 22 Noon Kalamazoo City Hall 241 W. South St. Plainwell Tuesday, March 22 2:00 p.m. Plainwell City Hall 141 N. Main St. Wayland Tuesday, March 22 4:00 p.m. Wayland City Hall 103 S. Main St. Allegan Tuesday, March 22 6:00 p.m. Allegan Area Educational Service Agency 310 Thomas St. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23rd New Buffalo Wednesday, March 23 8:00 a.m. New Buffalo City Hall 224 W. Buffalo St. Niles Wednesday, March 23 10:00 a.m. Chamber of Commerce 321 E. Main St. Edwardsburg Wednesday, March 23 Noon Ontwa Township Hall 26225 US 12 Dowagiac Wednesday, March 23 2:00 p.m. Dowagiac City Hall 241 S. Front St. Decatur Wednesday, March 23 4:00 p.m. VFW Post 6248 560 N. Phelps St. Stevensville Wednesday, March 23 6:00 p.m. Lincoln Township Hall 2055 W. John Beers Rd. THURSDAY, MARCH 24th South Haven Thursday, March 24 8:00 a.m. South Haven City Hall 539 Phoenix St. Coloma Thursday, March 24 10:00 a.m. Coloma Township Hall 4919 Paw Paw Lake Rd. Paw Paw Thursday, March 24 Noon Van Buren County Administration & Land Services Building 219 Paw Paw St. Three Rivers Thursday, March 24 2:00 p.m. Three Rivers City Hall 333 W. Michigan Ave. Centreville Thursday, March 24 4:00 p.m. St. Joseph County Courthouse 125 W. Main St. Sturgis Thursday, March 24 6:00 p.m. Sturgis City Hall 130 N. Nottawa St. All members of the media are strongly encouraged to attend.
03.16.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, made the following opening statement at today’s Energy and Power Subcommittee and Environment and the Economy Subcommittee joint hearing with Secretary of Energy Steven Chu and Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) Chairman Gregory Jaczko. Originally scheduled to examine the FY 2012 Department of Energy and Nuclear Regulatory Commission budgets, the hearing provided an opportunity for Congress to formally receive a status update about the Japanese nuclear facilities damaged after a devastating earthquake and tsunami hit the nation last week. “In the midst of a natural disaster and a tragedy we’re watching unfold hour by hour, we need to allow time for reflection and careful analysis and learn from their mistakes. This is especially true when it comes to proposals that would make permanent changes in policy based on incomplete information,” said Upton. “I live 15 miles from two nuclear power plants, so the safety of U.S. nuclear facilities is not an issue I take lightly. I am not straying from my support for safe nuclear energy as a vital component of America’s present and future energy mix. It is just as important to dispel overstated fears as it is to discuss legitimate concerns, and I know we can begin the process of doing both.” During the hearing, Upton questioned the NRC chairman regarding the adequacy of NRC’s resources for their monitoring of the all US plants and was given such assurance. Upton’s southwest Michigan district is home to both the D.C. Cook Nuclear Plant in Bridgman and the Palisades Nuclear Plant in Covert Township. The full text of Upton’s prepared opening remarks can be found HERE. An archived webcast of today’s subcommittee hearing can be found HERE.
03.14.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) gave the following tribute in recognition of Green Bay Packers wide receiver and Kalamazoo, Michigan native Greg Jennings. Jennings, a graduate of Kalamazoo Central High School and Western Michigan University, will be honored today as the City of Kalamazoo celebrates Greg Jennings Day. Upton made his tribute in the Congressional Record on March 14, 2011. The full text of Upton’s remarks follows below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Green Bay Packers wide receiver Greg Jennings. Jennings, a native of my district from Kalamazoo, Michigan, was a star for the Packers in their recent 31-25 victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers in Super Bowl XLV. Jennings began his football career playing for the Kalamazoo Central High School Maroon Giants. There, he was not only recognized for his accomplishments on the gridiron, but was also an accomplished basketball player, runner, and long jumper. After high school, Jennings went on to play football at Western Michigan University where his athletic accomplishments continued to soar and he won the 2005 MAC Offensive Player of the Year Award. In 2006, Jennings was selected in the second round of the NFL Draft and signed to the Green Bay Packers. During Super Bowl XLV on February 6, 2010, he scored two touchdowns that helped to secure a Super Bowl victory for the Green Bay Packers. In his private life off the field, Jennings is a family man and a person of faith who continues to give back, including his work through The Greg Jennings Foundation. He is truly a model athlete and a treasure to southwest Michigan. True to his high school’s moniker, Greg has truly been a Giant, both on and off the field. It is no wonder that the city of Kalamazoo proclaimed March 14th as Greg Jennings Day. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
03.14.2011	The U.S. House of Representatives today voted to pass a concurrent resolution offered by Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), H.Con.Res.27, which would authorize the placement of a statue of President Gerald R. Ford in the Capitol rotunda. The resolution, which is cosponsored by all 14 other members of Michigan’s congressional delegation, passed the House by a vote of 396 to 0 and now heads to the U.S. Senate for final passage. “As one who has the honor and privilege of representing some of the very same people in southwest Michigan that President Ford did during his time in the House, it gives me great pleasure to witness this fitting tribute to Michigan’s native son,” said Upton. “President Gerald Ford is a Michigan original and a model for all those called to public service. A seemingly ordinary American who unexpectedly found himself in the presidency at one of our nation’s most tumultuous times, Gerald Ford led with honesty and integrity. By standing above the political fray, President Ford allowed a wounded nation to heal.” The statue of President Ford will be replacing a statue of Michigan politician and abolitionist Zachariah Chandler. A presentation ceremony for the new statue is scheduled to take place in the Capitol rotunda on May 3, 2011. Under federal law, each state is eligible to display up to two statues within the Capitol at a given time. Each statue is a gift of the home state, approved and provided for in accordance with that particular state’s legislature. The placement of the statue is then approved by the U.S. Congress, which may also approve the replacement of a statue. Today, the U.S. Capitol houses 100 statues contributed by the 50 states.
03.11.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) would like to reminded folks in southwest Michigan to set their clocks forward this weekend in observance of daylight saving time (DST). As part of the 2005 Energy Bill, Upton and Markey amended the Uniform Time Act of 1996 to increase the portion of the year that is subject to DST, providing longer hours of daylight and helping consumers cut back on peak-hour electricity usage. The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) affirmed that extending Daylight Saving Time (DST) for four weeks saves American families nearly $500 million and 2.9 million barrels of oil each year. “Between energy conservation, lower bills and fewer traffic accidents, the benefits of extending Daylight Saving Time are many – not to mention the additional hour of sunshine in the evening will help chase away the winter blues,” said Upton. “Government studies have proven the more daylight during the waking hours, the less electricity people use – most importantly, Michigan’s families struggling to get by are now seeing real savings in their power bills.” The amendment extended the duration of DST in the spring by changing its start date from the first Sunday in April to the second Sunday in March, and in the fall by changing its end date from the last Sunday in October to the first Sunday in November.
03.10.2011	The Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power took a strong stand today in support of jobs and against higher gasoline and energy costs by approving H.R. 910, the Energy Tax Prevention Act of 2011. The bipartisan measure passed by voice vote, and no amendments were offered. The bill now moves to the full Energy and Commerce Committee for consideration, with a markup scheduled for early next week, commencing with opening statements Monday afternoon. “The Energy Tax Prevention Act is not about global warming science, it is about stopping regulations certain to do more harm than good, regardless of how one interprets the science,” said Subcommittee Chairman Ed Whitfield (R-KY). “It is about a dangerous and job destroying attempt to transform the economy in ways Congress has repeatedly rejected.” “EPA’s regulations are a backdoor attempt by unelected bureaucrats to implement the highly unpopular cap-and-trade legislation that was rejected last year,” said Upton. “These rules are about as out-of-touch with what the American people want as anything moving forward in Washington - this is especially so, given what the rules would do to already-soaring gasoline prices. This committee and others will soon turn our attention to removing other Obama administration roadblocks to domestic energy production, but our first order of business is to stop EPA’s gas price-raising global warming regulations. High energy prices not only hurt households, they burden small businesses and farmers as well.” The Energy Tax Prevention Act is designed to stop the EPA from using the Clean Air Act to unilaterally impose greenhouse gases regulations to address climate change. Unless Congress intervenes, the EPA’s efforts to impose a cap-and-trade agenda threaten to drive gas prices even higher, increase utility rates, send manufacturing jobs overseas, and hamstring our economic recovery. Previous congressional efforts to regulate and put a price on greenhouse gas emissions were estimated to increase the price of a gallon of gasoline by 19 cents in 2015 and 95 cents in 2050. Because EPA’s greenhouse gas regulations are designed to achieve the same goals as cap-and-trade legislation, and because such regulations would directly impact domestic refineries, the regulations are similarly expected to drive up the price of gasoline. For America’s refiners, EPA’s rules are already translating into lower domestic output, and it will only get worse if the agency is allowed to move forward with its rules. EPA’s greenhouse gas rules would hamper production at existing facilities while also discouraging needed expansions, resulting in higher motor fuel prices and lost jobs in the energy industry. Steven Cousins, Vice President of Arkansas refiner Lion Oil Company, recently testified, “The legislation [HR910] is also necessary to protect consumers, farmers, and truckers from higher gasoline and diesel fuel prices.” Estimates are not available for the full cost of the litany of regulations being proposed and contemplated by the EPA, in large measure because the EPA has refused to conduct an economic analysis. EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson herself has suggested greenhouse gas regulation is expected to impose even greater economic costs than the bills that ultimately failed in Congress, stating, "Legislation is so important, because it will combine the most efficient, most economy-wide, least costly (and) least disruptive way to deal with carbon dioxide pollution. We get further faster without top-down regulation." In drafting the Energy Tax Prevention Act (H.R. 910), Upton and Whitfield worked to protect and maintain EPA’s ability and obligation to regulate and mitigate air pollutants like particulates that cause soot, ozone that causes smog, and almost 200 other air pollutants. H.R. 910 merely ensures that the Clean Air Act is not misused for a carbon cap-and-tax of greenhouse gas emissions it was never designed for.
03.09.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement on the passing of The Washington Post journalist, pundit, and author David Broder. Over the years, Upton had developed a warm professional relationship with Broder. “Dave Broder knew what was going on ‘inside-the-beltway’ better than anyone else and could translate that knowledge into understandable English for the rest of the country. The ‘Dean’ of the Washington press corps, Broder was equally at home in the Midwest – rooting for the Chicago Cubs and spending time in Michigan every summer. Broder was always able to connect with the questions and answers we all wanted to know. He was simply the best of the best whether it was as author, columnist, or TV commentator. Everyone had to be on their toes to answer his insightful questions. We all will miss his professional style of journalism.”
03.04.2011	Republican and Democratic leaders in the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday introduced the Energy Tax Prevention Act (H.R. 910), a bill to block EPA’s controversial backdoor climate change agenda that would further drive up the price of energy for American consumers and job creators at a time when gas prices are already spiking and job creation remains weak. The bill is narrowly drawn to clarify the EPA’s authority under the Clean Air Act, preserving the law’s important and longstanding functions to reduce air pollution. Introducing the bill was Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin Peterson (D-MN), Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Nick Rahall (D-WV), and Energy and Power Subcommittee Chairman Ed Whitfield (R-KY), in addition to others. “Whether at the pump or on their monthly utility bills, American families, farmers, and employers feel the pinch when energy prices go up. The very last thing the federal government should do is make matters worse by intentionally driving up the cost of energy. Yet that is exactly what’s in store if the EPA moves forward with its plans to regulate and penalize carbon emissions under the Clean Air Act,” said Chairman Upton. “The EPA is pursuing a dramatic shift in our nation’s energy and environmental policy that would send shock waves through our economy,” said Chairman Whitfield. “Setting the course of our energy policy is the job of Congress, not a single federal agency acting without authority. The Energy Tax Prevention Act is a sensible, straightforward plan to end the uncertainty and economic threat posed by the EPA’s climate change agenda.” “The EPA needs to be reined in. If Congress does not do something about the regulations being imposed on our farmers, ranchers and rural communities, the economic effects could be devastating. This is the last thing we need when our economy is beginning to show signs of recovery,” said Ranking Member Peterson. NOTE: The text of the Energy Tax Prevention Act is available online along with letters of support for the legislation from American Electric Power, the American Farm Bureau Federation, the Industrial Energy Consumers of America, the National Association of Realtors, and the National Mining Association.
03.04.2011	U.S. Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), along with 21 other Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, yesterday introduced the Stop Asian Carp Act, H.R. 892. The legislation will require the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to conduct and expedite a study detailing engineering options to determine the best way to permanently separate the Mississippi River Basin from Lake Michigan and prevent Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes. In the U.S. Senate, Senator Debbie Stabenow introduced similar legislation yesterday. In the House, the legislation is authored by Representative Dave Camp and cosponsored by all 15 members of the Michigan delegation. “This bill is an important step for a long-term, permanent solution to keeping the carp and other invasive species out of our precious Great Lakes,” said Upton. “Billions of dollars and 800,000 jobs supported by the Great Lakes industry are hanging in the balance. We need action now.” The study must begin within 30 days of the bill’s enactment, and the Army Corps must send a progress report to Congress and the President within six months and again in 12 months. The full study must be completed and given to Congress and the President 18 months after the bill is enacted. It will be monitored by the Council on Environmental Quality to ensure its thorough and timely completion. The study will also address flooding threats, Chicago wastewater, water safety operations, and barge and recreational vessel traffic alternatives. It will examine other modes of transportation for the shipping industry and influence new engineering designs to move canal traffic from one body of water to the other without transferring invasive species.
03.03.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today praised House passage of the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011 (H.R. 4), which repeals the harmful 1099 tax reporting requirement from the healthcare overhaul. The legislation, of which Upton is an original cosponsor, passed the House by a vote of 314 to 112. “American small businesses should be focused on local job creation, not complying with costly, burdensome mandates coming out of Washington,” said Upton. “These new requirements under the healthcare law threaten the very livelihood of business owners in southwest Michigan and across the country. Under this hidden tax reporting provision, businesses will be forced to needlessly allocate more time and resources toward processing IRS paperwork on their day-to-day transactions. How does this even begin to relate to jobs or healthcare for folks in Michigan? The American people have spoken on the healthcare law’s overreaching requirements: enough is enough.” The provision targeted by H.R. 4, found on page 737 of Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, will force small businesses to file separate 1099 IRS reporting forms for every single business-to-business transaction that exceeds $600 in a given year, beginning in 2012. Under current law, businesses are required to report services provided by non-corporate entities. This provision of the health care bill greatly expands that requirement by extending it to all corporations that are not tax-exempt. Compliance means such basic day-to-day business expenses as telecommunication services, utility repairs, and office supplies will now be subject to IRS disclosure. Not only does this provision directly put an onerous tax reporting burden on small business, it also has the added impact of changing the way companies conduct their business with outside vendors. Faced with the prospect of a mountain of IRS forms, many companies will find it more convenient to turn to large global suppliers rather than negotiate with a number of smaller, local companies. Repealing the 1099 provision is a top priority of the Small Business Association of Michigan. Upton is also an original cosponsor of legislation, H.R. 2, to repeal the healthcare law in its entirety.
02.19.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) praised House passage of legislation (H.R. 1) to fund the federal government through the remainder of the fiscal year. The measure, which passed by a vote of 235 to 189, cuts federal spending by record levels and fulfills the pledge made by House Republicans to stop out-of-control spending and reduce the size of government. The legislation also highlights the return to an era of transparency and participation, as House Republican rules allowed for hours of open, public debate and consideration of nearly 600 amendments offered by both Democrats and Republicans. “With today’s difficult cuts, the nation begins the long-overdue process of putting its fiscal house back in order. In the past two years alone, federal spending and the size of government has exploded – even the administration’s own deficit predictions have increased by hundreds of billions of dollars over the past year. For the first time ever, our national debt has eclipsed $14 trillion, equating to nearly $46,000 for every single American. Congress has been derelict in its responsibilities long enough – the days of asking future generations to needlessly shoulder the costs of a fiscally irresponsible government are over. We will put our economy and budget back on track by lifting this burden off the backs of Michigan’s working families and businesses.” Among the many cuts and cost-saving provisions that were included in the final bill: Rescind all unobligated stimulus dollars – $2 billion Eliminate funding for the “Green the Capitol” initiative – $1.5 million Eliminate funding for the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts – $4.5 million Eliminate funding for the East-West Center to promote goodwill between the nations of the United States, Asia, and Pacific - $10.7 million Eliminate funding for the United States Institute of Peace – $42.6 million Additionally, provisions were included to: Prevent the Federal Communications Commission from regulating the Internet under so-called “net neutrality” rules Block the White House from appointing and funding “czars” without Senate confirmation
02.17.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, made the following statement at this morning’s Health Subcommittee hearing entitled “Impact of Medical Device Regulation on Jobs and Patients.” The Subcommittee examined the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) review and approval process for medical devices and its impact on jobs and innovation. “Our nation has been the world leader on medical devices, using American innovation to bring life-saving, life-improving devices to American patients and create high-paying, rewarding jobs here at home,” read Upton’s opening remarks. “In 2008, the medical device industry directly employed over 420,000 Americans. In my home state of Michigan, device companies employed over 9,000 people.” Speaking to the FDA’s regulatory process, Upton further noted, “According to recent reports and first-hand accounts from our nation’s small businesses, device companies are being forced to market their devices first in Europe because the EU countries have predictable and consistent regulatory processes. Because of this, medical devices are available to European patients two years ahead of when they're available to U.S. patients. To make it even worse, American jobs are following too as U.S. firms move their operations overseas.” In examining the FDA’s approval process, the Health Subcommittee will seek ways to ensure that high-quality products get to the market in a safe, consistent, and expedient manner. FDA must ensure certainty, predictability and transparency in its process so our nation can remain the global leader in medical device innovation. This will allow medical device companies in Michigan to continue to improve the lives of patients and create good-paying jobs here at home.
02.16.2011	House and Senate leaders on communications and technology policy today formally introduced a Resolution of Disapproval under the Congressional Review Act to reverse the Federal Communications Commission’s net neutrality rules. Leading the effort in the House are Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI). Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee Ranking Member Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) joined Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell and others to introduce identical legislation in the Senate. The Resolution of Disapproval reverses the FCC’s net neutrality rules with a simple majority in both chambers, and is filibuster-proof. Walden said, “From the Internet’s inception we have taken a hands-off approach. The Internet did not become the explosive driver of communications and economic growth it is today until we turned it over to free enterprise. Changing direction now will only harm innovation and the economy. I hope my colleagues in the House and Senate will join our efforts to stop the government from placing more onerous restrictions on the currently open and thriving Internet.” Upton said, “We held a hearing today in which we gave the commissioners of the FCC one more opportunity to provide sufficient evidence of a crisis that warrants government intervention. They failed. One of the greatest threats to job creation in our current economy is runaway regulation that is all cost and no benefit. The controversial Internet regulations stifle innovation, investment, and jobs. A federal bureaucracy should not be picking winners and losers.” According to a recent Rasmussen poll, only 21 percent of the country supports network neutrality. More than half polled said the free market will do a better job of protecting the Internet and 56 percent believe the FCC will use its powers to push a political agenda. At the hearing, Chairmen Walden and Upton pressed the commissioners to demonstrate a market failure or other existing risks to consumers that would prove the need for Internet regulations. Rather than show any existing problem, the three FCC commissioners who advanced the rule merely speculated about the prospect of future harm. “I am concerned that this power grab will set a dangerous precedent to undermine the role of Congress as elected representatives of the people to determine the law of the land. I do not intent to allow this to occur,” concluded Upton. Click here to view the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee’s statement.
02.14.2011	House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) issued the following statement today in response to President Obama’s FY 2012 budget request: “Our fiscal situation is dire, and our need for policies that promote job creation is urgent. In the last two years we have seen stunning growth in the size and scope of the federal government, and with it, a similarly dramatic increase in government spending and red ink. Job creators have been pushed to the economic sidelines because of the long-term threat of debts, deficits, and government expansion. To maintain the status quo with a ‘spending freeze’ would simply lock in a government spending explosion we cannot afford. “I am particularly disappointed to see the White House continuing its efforts to manipulate free enterprise – whether on energy or health care or technology, this budget continues to advance policies in which the federal government picks winners and losers, rather than letting the American people and the power of competition identify the most efficient, effective investment of resources. “It is time to get our fiscal house in order. Beginning this week, the House will advance a spending plan for the rest of this fiscal year to make meaningful reductions in the spending that has grown unchecked for the past two years. We will also scrutinize the President’s budget proposal for next year, going line-by-line to better understand the specific proposals this administration is advancing and how we can go much further to create a spending plan that brings down the deficit, promotes energy security and independence, harnesses the power and promise of technology, improves our health care system by stemming the tide of a government takeover, and empowers individuals with greater freedom and less government intrusion.”
01.31.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), chairman of the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement today after a federal judge ruled in favor of private citizens, small businesses, and 26 states to declare last year’s controversial health care law unconstitutional in its entirety: “As today’s ruling makes clear, government cannot – it must not – attempt to coerce its citizens into accepting a health care system they reject under threat of federal punishment. This law continues its record of broken promises, failing to bring down health care costs or permit Americans to keep the coverage they like, and instead, trampling individual liberty with a harsh mandate-and-penalize regime for individuals and job creators. “As the lawsuits proceed through the courts and the American people continue to speak out against this government takeover of health care, it is clearer than ever that Congress must act to repeal this unconstitutional law and replace it with sensible, market-based, patient-centered solutions. Today’s ruling only adds urgency and a moral imperative to our efforts, as an unconstitutional law continues to mire our states and health care providers in uncertainty and confusion. As Congress proceeds in our effort to repeal and replace this law, I urge the administration to see to it that these challenges are fast-tracked to the Supreme Court to resolve these questions as quickly as possible.”
01.28.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) today announced two new staff hires for his St. Joseph-Benton Harbor district office as well as the appointment of a new District Director. “I am thrilled to welcome two great additions to our team in the Twin Cities,” said Upton. “As a Member of Congress, there is no single greater responsibility – nor a more rewarding one – than providing assistance to those I am elected to represent. We have an all-star team assembled in southwest Michigan, with the additions of Clay McCausland and Megan Hicks. They will be joining my Senior Constituent Service Representative Janet Zielke, who for the past two decades has set the gold standard for constituent service and community outreach. I am also pleased to announce that Ed Sackley will be playing an expanded role in my office and throughout the District as my District Director.” Megan Hicks – Constituent Service Representative Hicks, a recent graduate of Western Michigan University and Paw Paw native, began her duties as Constituent Services Representative in the St. Joseph-Benton Harbor district office in December following work in health care financial services. Hicks served as an intern in Upton’s Kalamazoo district office while attending college. Clay McCausland – District Representative McCausland, a St. Joseph-Benton Harbor native, returns home to assume the duties of District Representative for the St. Joseph-Benton Harbor district office after serving as a federal law enforcement agent in California. McCausland, a graduate of The George Washington University, served as an intern in Upton’s Washington office while attending college. Ed Sackley – District Director Sackley, Upton’s District Representative in the Kalamazoo district office since 2002, has been named District Director. In his expanded role, Sackley will oversee operations throughout the Sixth Congressional District, encompassing both the Kalamazoo and St. Joseph-Benton Harbor district offices. Upton operates full-time constituent service offices in both the Twin Cities and Kalamazoo. These offices provide vital assistance to all southwest Michigan residents in dealing with the federal government. Whether expediting a late Social Security benefit or presenting one of our nation’s brave veterans with overdue service medals, Upton’s district offices can help cut through the bureaucratic red tape.
01.24.2011	Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) today warned the Environmental Protection Agency’s final “Boiler MACT Rules,” expected in February, pose significant economic risk and underscore the dangers of the agency’s flawed regulatory tactics. Last week a federal district court denied the EPA’s request for a 15-month extension on the final emissions standards for boilers and incinerators – rules that will affect thousands of manufacturing and industrial facilities, small businesses, educational institutions, hospitals, and local and federal agencies. “This EPA has a track record of regulating too much too fast while ignoring potentially devastating economic consequences,” said Upton. “The Boiler MACT rules are a perfect example of what happens when the EPA diverts its resources and attention away from its core responsibilities in order to pursue controversial regulatory schemes – such as its greenhouse gas regime – that lack support in Congress. “The EPA acknowledges its failure by requesting reconsideration of the final Boiler MACT rules before they are even released,” continued Upton. “Congress will be closely monitoring the final rules when they are released next month and considering what steps can be taken to protect jobs and prevent reckless regulation.” NOTE: The original Boiler MACT proposal could result in thousands of lost jobs, according to the EPA’s own analysis, and the agency’s request for an extension acknowledged the rules needed to be re-proposed to be “more defensible.” The Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations has scheduled a hearing on “The Views for the Administration on Regulatory Reform” this Wednesday, January 26 at 10:00 a.m. in Room 2123 of the Rayburn House Office Building to examine the Obama administration’s recent executive order on federal regulations.
01.20.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, joined Reps. Greg Walden (R-OR) and Lee Terry (R-NE), Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, respectively, in releasing the following statement upon Verizon's court challenge against the Federal Communications Commission's effort to regulate the Internet: "We welcome the decision by Verizon, and hopefully others, to demand their day in court to block the FCC's misguided attempt to regulate the Internet. At stake is not just innovation and economic growth, although those concerns are vital. Equally important is putting a check on an FCC that is acting beyond the authority granted to it by Congress. Between our legislative efforts and this court action, we will put the FCC back on firmer ground."
01.19.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, made the following statement today on the House floor in support of the effort to repeal Obamacare (H.R. 2): "Mr. Speaker, today we take a step toward compassionate, innovative and job-creating health care. It’s ironic that we must end something to realize a new beginning. But that’s exactly what Obamacare has compelled us to do. And that’s precisely what we will do today. "It’s time to be honest with the American people. Remember the Hippocratic Oath? First, do no harm. "Obamacare produces the opposite of growth, compassion and innovation in health care. It destroys jobs, busts budgets, and creates an unsustainable set of mandates on individuals, employers and states. It will stifle innovation and the development of life-saving medicines. It will make healthcare more expensive, not more affordable. "Mr. Speaker that’s not compassion; that won’t produce innovation; and that’s why repeal is the first step toward a better beginning. "What’s compassionate about forcing employers to provide insurance they cannot afford to employees who will lose their jobs due to Obamacare? "What’s compassionate about creating a rigid new entitlement that states are commanded to fund with money they do not have? "What’s compassionate about cutting over $200 billion from the Medicare Advantage program, leaving seniors with fewer services, higher co-pays and more out of pocket expenses? "What’s compassionate about shackling more Americans with greater government dependence? "Obamacare was erected on a foundation of false promises: • “If you like what you have you can keep it.” • “Healthcare premiums will go down.” • “Employers will not drop coverage.” • “Seniors won’t see any changes in their Medicare benefits.” "Today we know those were only slogans – sound bites in a cynical sales pitch – and certainly not promises kept. "Yes, today repeal will pass in the House. And we will then embark on reform that I believe can be supported by Republicans and Democrats: • Ensuring those with pre-existing conditions have access to affordable coverage. • Allowing families to include their children up to 26. • Medical liability reform to reduce the unneeded cost of defensive medicine. • Provide incentives for employers, rather than penalties and mandates that will cost jobs and depress wages. "Those are just some of the principles I believe we can agree with on both sides of the aisle. So, first is repeal, then replace. I’m ready for the challenge to put real health reform back together that is bipartisan rather than partisan and achieves the goal of lower health care costs for American families. "I reserve the balance of my time."
01.19.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today upon House approval of H.R. 2, legislation to repeal Obamacare: “Today's repeal vote is a first step toward compassionate, consumer- and competition-driven health care reform. We will use every tool at our disposal to dismantle this law and develop a better path forward. We will undertake rigorous oversight of the law as it stands, examining sound alternatives through a transparent, inclusive and deliberative process. We must focus on lowering costs, which the American people wanted but the Democrats ignored. We will also look to our governors, who are demonstrating great leadership and innovation, but who are shackled by federal red tape and mandates. "Today is a first step to getting government out of the examining room, restoring the sacred doctor-patient relationship, and allowing individuals to once again make their own decisions regarding their personal care." Watch a video of Upton's floor remarks HERE.
01.18.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, joined Reps. Greg Walden (R-OR) and Lee Terry (R-NE), Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, respectively, in releasing the following statement upon the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) approval of the Comcast-NBC Universal transaction: "We are glad Comcast can now get back to doing business and creating jobs, but the price of doing so should not be coerced compliance with the heavy-handed tactics of an overreaching FCC. The FCC’s efforts to circumvent both the free market and courts by railroading job- and investment-harming net neutrality provisions, as well as regulation of nascent Internet-distributed video, represent more of a Chicago-style shakedown than the thoughtful deliberation this transaction deserved. We will be examining whether changes in the FCC’s transaction review process are needed as we exercise congressional oversight in the weeks to come."
01.12.2011	This past weekend, our country was unexpectedly shaken by a senseless act of violence in Tucson, Arizona. The national tragedy, which left six dead and 14 injured, happened at a public meeting hosted by my colleague Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, who herself was critically injured in the attack. As a nation, our thoughts and prayers go out to the victims of the shooting and the countless friends and family members whose lives will be forever changed by it. As Americans, we are all deeply affected by such violence, which goes against everything we stand for as a nation. When the lives and liberties of our fellow Americans are endangered, we as a country stand united. On Monday morning, people across the nation came together to join the President and First Lady in a moment of silence to honor those who have suffered as a result of this tragedy. I joined many of my colleagues and staff on the East Front of the Capitol to offer personal condolences as well as a prayer to strengthen and comfort the nation through this difficult period. With public service comes both risks and great responsibilities. Representative Giffords never took her job lightly, fully understanding that our political system demands its elected leaders are responsive and available to the people we represent. As your representative, I can assure you that I will continue to remain accessible and actively engaged with constituents throughout southwest Michigan. My office door is always open. God bless.
01.12.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today announced additional staff hires and promotions for the Energy and Commerce Committee. Upton previously named Gary Andres as Staff Director and made a first round of staff announcements in late December. "I am thrilled with the impressive team we have for the Energy and Commerce Committee - some are continuing their service while others are returning to public service at this most important time," said Upton. "Their knowledge and expertise will be critical as Energy and Commerce takes the lead to foster a new era of job growth, repeal the budget-busting health law, fight rampant regulations, fortify our energy security, cut spending, and reduce the size of government." Michael Bloomquist - Deputy General Counsel Bloomquist returns to the Committee from Wiley Rein LLP where he was a partner in the International Trade and Policy groups. While in private practice he worked on energy, environmental, and climate matters. In addition to his prior service on the Committee, Bloomquist's government experience includes working for the then Committee on Science, and in the Office of the Solicitor at the U.S. Department of the Interior. Todd Harrison - Chief Counsel, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Harrison previously served as a state and federal prosecutor in New York, in which capacity he tried over forty cases, including terrorism and capital cases. Harrison served in the U.S. Department of Justice for nearly six years as a federal prosecutor in the Eastern District of New York, most recently as the deputy chief of the Violent Crimes and Terrorism Section. Previously, Mr. Harrison served as an assistant district attorney for five years in the New York County District Attorney’s Office under Robert M. Morgenthau. For the last three years, Harrison has been a white collar criminal defense attorney in New York with the law firm of Patton Boggs LLP. David McCarthy - Chief Counsel, Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy McCarthy served as Republican Chief Counsel for the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment from 2006 through 2008. He has staffed various House Committees dating from the 1980s. In the interim he has practiced law and headed the Washington offices for a Midwest energy company and an alternative fuel company. John O'Shea, M.D. - Senior Health Policy Advisor O’Shea comes to the Committee with over 20 years experience as a practicing surgeon. He received a Masters in Public Administration with a focus on Health Policy from the Harvard Kennedy School of Government in 2006. Following graduation from the Kennedy School, he was the Harvard Graduate Fellow in health policy at The Heritage Foundation in Washington, DC. He has worked on a number of health care issues, including the Medicare physician payment system, quality and access in the Medicaid program, the delivery of emergency medical services, medical malpractice and the effects of heath care reform on the patient-doctor relationship. He also has a Graduate Degree in the History and Sociology of Science from the University of Pennsylvania, where he studied the history of health care policy in the United States. Julie Goon - Senior Health Policy Advisor Goon served as Special Assistant to President George W. Bush for Economic Policy at the National Economic Council (NEC) from 2006 to 2009, and was responsible for the NEC’s health care portfolio including entitlement programs (Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP), health care access issues, transparency in pricing and quality, and health information technology. Goon joined the NEC from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services where she served as Director of Medicare Outreach and Senior Advisor to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Goon joins the Committee from General Electric where she has been Director of healthymagination, GE's cross-business initiative built on a global commitment to reduce costs, improve quality and expand access through innovation and partnership. Jeff Mortier - Professional Staff Member Mortier joins the Committee after spending the past five years on the staff of Congressman Ed Whitfield (R-KY), where he served as a Senior Policy Advisor and focused on health care and telecommunications policy. Andy Duberstein - Special Assistant to the Chairman Duberstein joins the Committee after 18 months in the office of Congressman Michael N. Castle (R-DE). Andy attended Franklin & Marshall College, graduating with a degree in Government and a minor in Economics. Additionally, from 2003 to 2004, Andy served as a Page in the U.S. House of Representatives. Charlotte Savercool – Special Assistant to the Staff Director Savercool joins the Committee after a five month internship in Majority Leader Eric Cantor’s office. A recent graduate of Virginia Tech, Savercool previously interned in Leader Cantor's office in the summer of 2008 and also completed an internship in the Office of Environment and Energy at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The following individuals will continue their service on the Committee in new capacities for the 112th Congress: Alan Slobodin - Chief Investigative Counsel, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Slobodin has served on the Committee since 1995, including as Senior Oversight Counsel under Chairman Tom Bliley (R-VA), Deputy Chief Counsel for Oversight and Investigations under Chairmen Billy Tauzin (R-LA) and Joe Barton (R-TX), and Republican Chief Counsel for Oversight and Investigations under Ranking Member Joe Barton. Previously, he served on the House Committee on the Judiciary and worked for the Washington Legal Foundation. Mary Neumayr – Senior Energy Counsel Prior to joining the Committee, Neumayr served as Deputy General Counsel for Environment and Nuclear Programs at the U.S. Department of Energy (2006-2009), and as Counsel to the Assistant Attorney General for the Environment and Natural Resources Division at the U.S. Department of Justice (2003-2006). Jerry Couri – Senior Environmental Policy Advisor Couri’s tenure on the Committee dates back to the 107th Congress. During that time, he has focused primarily on issues falling within the jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy. He has worked on the Solid Waste Disposal Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Superfund, the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Security Act, and the Toxic Substances Control Act. He continues regulatory oversight of these laws. Prior to serving at the Committee, Couri handled environmental issues related to the Committee in the personal offices of the late Congressman Paul Gillmor (R-OH) and Congressman Scott Klug (R-WI). Garret Golding – Professional Staff Member Golding, who first joined the Committee in 2006, will continue his service working on oil and gas issues for the Subcommittee on Energy and Power. Golding earned his undergraduate degree at Baylor University and will complete a masters degree at the Naval War College this summer.
01.11.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), chairman of the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement today after the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling released its final report: “With rising energy prices and growing global demand, the last thing America can afford is to lock away our own resources and increase our dependence on foreign sources of energy. Our goal must be an ‘all of the above’ strategy that safely and responsibly develops American-made energy. “The Commission’s report is one of several investigations into the Deepwater Horizon spill, and its findings will be among those considered as we work to prevent this type of disaster from ever being repeated. That’s why it is disappointing that, even after completing its final report, the commission has left unanswered the fundamental question of what went wrong. Rather than clearly identifying the root cause of this unprecedented disaster, the commission’s report is limited to general assertions about the enforcement agencies and industry as a whole. “Neither this nor any investigation should be used as political justification for a pre-determined agenda to limit affordable energy options for America. Without clear and specific evidence of what went wrong with this isolated well, unlike the tens of thousands that have never experienced similar failures, we will not learn the lessons needed to ensure a disaster like this will never happen again. It would be a mistake to conclude that our only path forward is to cede our energy future to foreign corporations and governments who do not share our commitment to safe, responsible resource development."
01.07.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, highlighted the need to repeal the job-killing health law following today’s Department of Labor jobs report that shows the national unemployment rate for December fell to 9.4 percent. Today's report marks 20 straight months the nation's jobless rate has topped 9 percent. The jobs report also follows news of the national debt eclipsing $14 trillion earlier this week. “Today's jobs numbers, while encouraging, reveal that we have much work left to do as we have now endured 20 consecutive months with nearly one out of every 10 Americans out of work," said Upton. "Our new majority is committed to turning the economy around and putting folks back to work. That begins with next week's vote to repeal the administration's budget-busting, job-killing health law. After two years of prolific spending and explosive government growth, families and small businesses are desperate for a fresh approach. Our new majority will reduce the size of government, attack every job-killing mandate to allow investment and innovation to thrive and cut spending to bring down our now $14 trillion debt." Yesterday, Upton joined Speaker John Boehner, Majority Leader Eric Cantor, and other Republican leaders to release “ObamaCare: A Budget-Busting, Job-Killing Health Care Law,” a new report detailing the job-killing aspects of the Democrats’ health care law. Read the report online HERE.
01.07.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today announced the Republican membership of the six Energy and Commerce subcommittees for the 112th Congress. "We could not have a more talented and accomplished group of members on Energy and Commerce, ready to deliver the change the American people expect and demand," said Upton. "From repealing the job-killing health law to fighting rampant regulations, these subcommittees will be on the front lines as we work to fulfill our pledge to the American people to create jobs, cut spending, and reduce the size of government." Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Chair – Mary Bono Mack (CA) Vice Chair - Marsha Blackburn (TN) Cliff Stearns (FL) Charlie Bass (NH) Gregg Harper (MS) Leonard Lance (NJ)* Bill Cassidy (LA) Brett Guthrie (KY) Pete Olson (TX) David McKinley (WV) Mike Pompeo (KS) Adam Kinzinger (IL) Joe Barton (TX) Fred Upton (MI) Subcommittee on Communications and Technology Chair – Greg Walden (OR) Vice Chair - Lee Terry (NE) Cliff Stearns (FL) John Shimkus (IL) Mary Bono Mack (CA) Mike Rogers (MI) Brian Bilbray (CA) Charlie Bass (NH) Marsha Blackburn (TN) Phil Gingrey (GA) Steve Scalise (LA) Bob Latta (OH) Brett Guthrie (KY) Adam Kinzinger (IL) Joe Barton (TX) Fred Upton (MI) Subcommittee on Energy and Power Chair – Ed Whitfield (KY) Vice Chair – John Sullivan (OK) John Shimkus (IL) Greg Walden (OR) Lee Terry (NE) Michael Burgess (TX) Brian Bilbray (CA) Steve Scalise (LA) Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA) Pete Olson (TX) David McKinley (WV) Cory Gardner (CO) Mike Pompeo (KS) Morgan Griffith (VA) Joe Barton (TX) Fred Upton (MI) Subcommittee on Environment and Economy Chair – John Shimkus (IL) Vice Chair - Tim Murphy (PA) Ed Whitfield (KY) Joe Pitts (PA) Mary Bono Mack (CA) John Sullivan (OK) Charlie Bass (NH) Bob Latta (OH) Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA) Gregg Harper (MS) Bill Cassidy (LA) Cory Gardner (CO) Joe Barton (TX) Fred Upton (MI) Subcommittee on Health Chair - Joe Pitts (PA) Vice Chair - Michael Burgess (TX) Ed Whitfield (KY) John Shimkus (IL) Mike Rogers (MI) Sue Myrick (NC) Tim Murphy (PA) Marsha Blackburn (TN) Phil Gingrey (GA) Bob Latta (OH) Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA) Leonard Lance (NJ)* Bill Cassidy (LA) Brett Guthrie (KY) Joe Barton (TX) Fred Upton (MI) Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Chair – Cliff Stearns (FL) Lee Terry (NE) - Vice Chairman – Communications and Technology John Sullivan (OK) - Vice Chairman – Energy and Power Tim Murphy (PA) - Vice Chairman – Environment and the Economy Michael Burgess (TX) - Vice Chairman - Health Marsha Blackburn (TN) - Vice Chair – Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Sue Myrick (NC) - Vice Chair – Full Committee Brian Bilbray (CA) Phil Gingrey (GA) Steve Scalise (LA) Cory Gardner (CO) Morgan Griffith (VA) Joe Barton (TX) Fred Upton (MI) * Pending Conference and House ratification next week.
01.06.2011	Watch Upton's testimony live online: http://house.granicus.com/ViewPublisher.php?view_id=2
01.06.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today joined House Speaker John Boehner, Majority Leader Eric Cantor and other Republican leaders to release, “ObamaCare: A Budget-Busting, Job-Killing Health Care Law.” This new report offers a multi-point analysis of how the Democrats’ health care law is costing American jobs and worsening economic uncertainty. Republicans have pledged to vote to repeal the unpopular law as part of a broader effort to promote job creation and reduce the size of government. “As this new report documents, job creators are struggling under the weight of this law’s crushing mandates, tax hikes, and cost increases," said Upton. "Republicans are standing with the American people to repeal the job-killing government takeover of health care so we can focus on creating jobs, bringing down health care costs, and expanding access to quality care." Among the job-killing provisions highlighted in the report: • New taxes, including an increase in the Medicare payroll tax • An employer mandate that fines business unable to provide government-approved health care • Burdensome paperwork requirements for employers thanks to a new mandate to file additional 1099 tax forms • A flawed, temporary tax credit that actually creates a disincentive for employers to increase wages and hire additional workers • Thousands of pages of new regulations • Billions of dollars in hidden costs To read the full report, “ObamaCare: A Budget-Busting, Job-Killing Health Care Law,” please click HERE.
01.06.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, made the following statement today before the House Rules Committee in support of the Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act (H.R. 2): Thank you, Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee. I appreciate the opportunity to testify in support of the Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act, a bill that is key in our efforts to promote policies that will help put Americans back to work and actually bring down health care costs for working families. In trying to secure passage of the controversial health care law, Speaker Pelosi famously said the House needed to pass the bill so we could find out what was in it. Well, in the ten months since its passage, the American people have learned what was in the bill, and they have overwhelmingly rejected it because it kills jobs and increases costs. Our nation’s unemployment rate is nearly 10 percent – it is over 12 percent in my home state of Michigan. This is unacceptable, and it underscores the urgency of our efforts to end job-killing policies like ObamaCare. The government takeover of health care destroys jobs with a host of tax hikes and costly government mandates. It raises taxes on the American people by more than $500 billion. At a time of soaring unemployment, the law alarmingly includes: • $210 billion in new payroll taxes; • $60 billion in new taxes on health plans; • $27 billion in taxes on pharmaceuticals that patients need; • $20 billion in taxes on common medical devices used by patients, like pacemakers and oxygen; • $15 billion in increased taxes on people with high medical expenses; and • $13 billion in taxes by restricting the use of Flexible Savings Accounts for things like over-the-counter drugs, including allergy medication. Hundreds of billions of dollars in new taxes will not only suffocate our economy, they will hurt families at a time when they can least afford it. This is not the American way. And let us not forget the $52 billion employer mandate. According to a study by the National Federation of Independent Business, an employer mandate could eliminate 1.6 million jobs by 2014. Two-thirds of those job losses could come from the small businesses that should be driving our economic recovery. At the Blair House health care summit last year, Speaker Pelosi claimed the health care bill would create 400,000 new jobs almost immediately. Yet the only new jobs most Americans can see are for Washington bureaucrats writing thousands of pages of regulations even as they hand out waivers because of the law’s unworkable mandates. Mr. Chairman, we must work together to foster a new era of job growth that encourages investment and innovation. We must repeal this job-killing health law that raids the pocketbooks of working Americans and sends their hard-earned tax dollars to Washington to create jobs for bureaucrats who decide what health care the public can have. We need to free our job creators from the uncertainty of this bill’s regulations and taxes so jobs can be created in places like Washington Township, Michigan, not Washington, DC. When the health reform debate began, the President said the goal of reform was to lower costs; in fact, he predicted Americans would see their premiums reduced by $2,500 a year. However, the Congressional Budget Office estimates ObamaCare will actually raise health insurance premiums in the individual market 10 to 13 percent. Americans are now facing the prospect of a $2,100 increase in premiums rather than the $2,500 decrease that was promised. The President also promised Americans that if they liked their health insurance, they could keep it. Yet, the bureaucrats enforcing the new government rules have stated that almost 87 million Americans could lose their current coverage. Despite the administration’s million-dollar, taxpayer funded ad campaign to convince seniors otherwise, the $575 billion in cuts to Medicare to fund new entitlements will hurt the Medicare program and its beneficiaries. The administration’s Chief Actuary estimates that a full 50 percent of participants, or 7 million seniors, will lose access to their Medicare Advantage plans. The bill cuts hundreds of billions of dollars from Medicare providers that, according to the actuary, could force 15 percent of providers to leave the program. The result would be, and I quote, “jeopardizing access to care for beneficiaries.” And despite claims to the contrary, the costs of ObamaCare will markedly increase our federal budget deficit. The proponents of the bill understood the program could not sustain itself, so they used misleading budget gimmicks to hide its true costs. This law provides six years of benefits paid for with ten years of tax increases and Medicare cuts. According to a report authored by the former director of the Congressional Budget Office, ObamaCare will increase the federal budget deficit by more than $550 billion in the first ten years of the law and by $1.4 trillion in the following ten years. Finally, instead of stopping skyrocketing health care costs, ObamaCare increases them. The administration's Chief Actuary predicts the federal government and the country will spend $310 billion more under ObamaCare than we would have without the new law. Even after the bill was signed into law, the Republican minority pleaded with former the Chairman to hold hearings on this massive overhaul. We asked for hearings to examine how companies will be forced to change or even drop their health care plans, leaving the promise that “if you liked your insurance you could keep it” as nothing but empty rhetoric. We sought hearings with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the other members of the vast administrative bureaucracy now in charge of our nation’s health care system. Our calls went unanswered. That now will change as the Energy and Commerce Committee will embark on a number of hearings in both the Health and the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittees. What will not go unanswered is the call of American people who spoke loud and clear in November and rejected this massive government expansion and takeover of health care. We heard the public and we are working on their behalf as we fight to repeal this health law and fulfill our pledge to work to create jobs, reduce the size of government and cut spending. Mr. Chairman, I commend your efforts to advance this bill so we can cast our votes to stop the taxes, stop the mandates, and get Americans back to work as we continue fighting to bring down health care costs and expand access to quality coverage. Thank you. NOTE: Upton today joined House Speaker John Boehner, Majority Leader Eric Cantor and other Republican leaders to release, “ObamaCare: A Budget-Busting, Job-Killing Health Care Law.” This new report offers a multi-point analysis of how the Democrats’ health care law is costing American jobs and worsening economic uncertainty. Republicans have pledged to vote to repeal the unpopular law as part of a broader effort to promote job creation and reduce the size of government. Read the report online HERE.
01.04.2011	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, made the following statement today regarding legislation he and other House Republicans are proposing to repeal the Democrats' job-killing health law: "Our new majority is committed to fostering a renewed era of job growth and economic opportunity – and an important first step is to repeal the job-killing health law. For two years, those in power have turned a blind eye to soaring unemployment, relentlessly working to grow the government rather than the private sector. We can do better. "Nancy Pelosi famously stated that we had to pass the bill to find out what was in it. Well, the more the American public learns about this law, the more they demand it be repealed. Despite the President’s repeated claims that if you like your care, you can keep it, millions of families and seniors stand to lose their current coverage because of the law’s burdensome mandates, penalties on small businesses, and failure to curb costly, frivolous lawsuits. Our new majority pledges to take better care of our seniors than the nation’s trial lawyers. "We are committed to health reforms that American families and small businesses can embrace, improving access to quality care while keeping costs down. "We pledged to work to create jobs, roll back the size of government, and conduct our business in full view of the American public. Repealing the job-killing government takeover of health care is a critical first step." To view the proposal, please click HERE.
01.03.2011	Upton discusses repeal of job-killing health law on Fox News Sunday "As part of our pledge, we said that we would bring up a vote to repeal health care early. That will happen before the President's State of the Union Address. We have 242 Republicans. There will be a significant number of Democrats, I think, that will join us. You will remember when that vote passed in the House last March, it only passed by seven votes... Unpopularity numbers are as high as 60 percent across the country. I don't think we're going to be that far off from having the votes to actually override a veto." Watch Upton on Fox News Sunday HERE. Read More: Top House Republican Predicts 'Significant' Bipartisan Support for Health Care Law Repeal USA Today: House Republicans plan early vote on health care repeal The new Republican leaders of the House of Representatives plan to hold a vote on repealing the White House's signature health care law before President Obama delivers the State of the Union address in late January, a key committee chairman said Sunday... In an interview on Fox News Sunday, the incoming House Energy and Commerce chairman, Fred Upton, predicted that "a significant number of Democrats" would join Republican forces in opposing the new law. The Washington Times: GOP to scrutinize Obama's feats - Chairmen vow to track down waste in government programs Republican committee chairmen say they're eager to get to work on dissecting government operations and, as one incoming chairman said, pushing lawmakers to ask basic questions. "I will ask our committee members to review the agencies from the top down. Literally, walk around agencies, such as [the Energy Department] and [Health and Human Services Department], and ask simple questions like, 'Why is the federal government doing this?'" said Rep. Fred Upton, Michigan Republican and incoming chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, whose broad jurisdiction makes it one of the most powerful spots for picking over government. Fox News: Movers and Shakers: Political Climate Changing as Rep. Upton Targets EPA Rules Unconstitutional power grab. Regulatory assault. Job-killing scheme. These are just a few of the phrases Rep. Fred Upton has used to described the Obama administration's bid to unilaterally regulate emissions through the EPA, in the absence of a comprehensive "cap-and-trade" energy bill. Upton's rhetoric, and his enthusiasm for defeating a host of new pollution rules, will get a powerful platform next session when he assumes the chairmanship of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. "We will fight the administration's relentless assault on jobs -- and stop them from doing through regulation what they have been unable to accomplish through legislation," Upton told FoxNews.com in a written statement.
12.29.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today announced senior staff additions for the Committee. The following staff will serve under Staff Director Gary Andres. Upton will continue to fill out the remaining senior staff positions in the coming days. "I am thrilled with the talented team we have for the Energy and Commerce Committee - some are continuing their service while others are returning to public service at this most critical time," said Upton. "Their knowledge and expertise will be crucial as Energy and Commerce takes the lead to repeal the job-killing health law, cut spending, fight rampant regulations, reduce the size of government, and fortify our energy security. I also look forward to the invaluable counsel and guidance from my longtime Chief of Staff, Joan Hillebrands, who will continue to play a vital role from my personal office." Joining Staff Director Gary Andres are: Michael Beckerman - Deputy Staff Director Now in his second stint with Congressman Upton, Beckerman has served as Policy Director since 2007. Prior to rejoining Upton's staff, he served as Congressman K. Michael Conaway's (R-TX) first Legislative Director. Jim Barnette - General Counsel Barnette will return to the Committee to serve as General Counsel in the 112th Congress. Barnette had previously served as General Counsel under Chairmen Tom Bliley (R-VA), Billy Tauzin (R-LA) and Joe Barton (R-TX). Howard Cohen - Chief Health Counsel, full committee Cohen has a Ph.D from the University of Massachusetts in Psychology and a law degree from George Washington University. Cohen returns to the Committee after a decade of service in the 1990s where he worked on issues in Medicare, Medicaid, and the Public Health Service Act. Alexa Marrero - Communications Director Marrero has served since 2007 as Communications Director for the House Committee on Education and Labor under Senior Republican Members John Kline (R-MN) and Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA). She was previously Vice President of Communications and Industry Relations for the nonprofit Education Finance Council, and before that served as Press Secretary for the Committee on Education and the Workforce under then-Chairman John Boehner (R-OH). Sean Bonyun - Deputy Communications Director Bonyun has served as Communications Director for Congressman Upton since 2003. Prior to joining Upton's staff, Bonyun served as Press Secretary for Congresswoman Nancy Johnson (R-CT) and Congressman Steve Kuykendall (R-CA). Gib Mullan - Chief Counsel, Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Mullan joins the Committee after seven years of service with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, first as General Counsel and then as Director of Compliance and Field Operations overseeing thousands of investigations and recalls. Most recently, he coordinated a conference on Import Safety involving ten federal agencies. Neil Fried - Chief Counsel, Subcommittee on Communications and Technology Fried continues his service on the Committee, where he has been involved in the enactment of the 2005 digital television transition legislation and congressional oversight of the 2009 transition date. Before joining the Committee in August 2003, he spent three years in private practice, where he specialized in television and telecommunications issues. Prior to his work in the private sector, he served four years with the Federal Communications Commission implementing the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Maryam Brown - Chief Counsel, Subcommittee on Energy and Power Brown returns to the Committee from the Senate Republican Policy Committee (RPC) where she served as Policy Counsel, managing RPC’s energy and environment portfolio. Brown previously served as Counsel to the Committee (2004-2006) as well as Staff Director to the House Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources (2006-2008), managing a wide range of energy and environment issues in both capacities. Ryan Long - Chief Counsel, Subcommittee on Health Long joined the Committee as a Professional Staff Member in 2004 and became the Chief Health Counsel in 2006. Prior to his work on the Committee, Ryan served as Congressman Joe Barton’s Legislative Director and also worked the office of Congressman Charlie Norwood. Aaron Cutler - Deputy Policy Director and Counsel A University of Michigan Law School graduate, Cutler continues his service on the Committee. Cutler previously served as Energy Counsel, working on a range of energy issues, including, oil and gas, fuels, efficiency, and the Clean Air Act. Marty Dannenfelser - Senior Advisor Health Policy and Coalitions Dannenfelser moves to the Committee from his post as Staff Director for the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. He previously served as Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary at the Administration for Children and Families/U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, a Vice President at the Family Research Council, and Administrative Assistant for Congressman Christopher Smith (R-NJ). Ray Baum - Senior Policy Advisor, Subcommittee on Communications and Technology Baum, a native of La Grande, Oregon, is a former Majority Leader of the Oregon state House of Representatives and current chairman of the Oregon Public Utility Commission. Baum also chaired the Oregon Broadband Advisory Council, served as a member of the Board of Directors of the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC), and is state chair of the Federal–State Joint Board on Universal Service.
12.23.2010	This week, folks will brave the icy roads, crowded train stations, and teeming airports to reunite with loved ones across the country in celebration of the Christmas holiday season. In the midst of the hustle and bustle, let us give a moment’s pause to reflect upon the countless blessings in our lives and offer a prayer of gratitude. The holidays are a special time of year when folks gather with family and friends for a few days of celebration and reflection – reliving treasured memories, partaking in time-honored traditions, and making new ones. When it is so easy to get caught up in the minutiae of our day-to-day lives, the season offers us fresh perspective and renews our spirits. My children, Meg and Stephen, are anxious for a break from their busy schedules and a few home-cooked meals. My wife, Amey, and I look forward to having the whole family back together under one roof, even if it is only for a few days. Our kids are growing up so quickly, and it is these times together that mean the most. I hope that everyone will take a few moments this week to remember all of those brave men and women of our armed forces who are not able to be home with us this year. Our thoughts and prayers are with our nation’s service members who are serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the globe. We thank all our courageous soldiers and their families who have made tremendous sacrifices so that we may continue to enjoy our freedom and security here at home. We are all so proud of them and we wish they were here so we could thank them personally. Amey and I wish you and your loved ones a safe and joy-filled Christmas, and all the best for the New Year. God bless.
12.23.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, made the following statement today regarding the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) latest push to establish greenhouse gas (GHG) pollution standards under the Clean Air Act in 2011. "To protect jobs and fortify our energy security, we should be working to bring more power online, not shutting plants down. We are woefully unprepared to meet our nation's growing energy demands, yet this administration's 'none of the above' energy policy will do nothing but cost jobs, make energy more expensive, and increase our dependence on foreign sources of energy. Today's announcement marks a crescendo in the EPA's long regulatory assault against America's energy producers. The EPA has its foot firmly on the throat of our economic recovery. We will not allow the administration to regulate what they have been unable to legislate - this Christmas surprise is nothing short of a backdoor attempt to implement their failed job-killing cap-and-trade scheme."
12.22.2010	Broadcasting & Cable: Incoming Republican Leaders Vow to Block Net Neutrality Vote Walden, incoming chair of the House Communications Subcommittee, was joined by Energy & Commerce Committee Chair Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Communications Subcommittee Vice Chairman Lee Terry and committee/subcommittee member Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) in pledging to get all the commissioners to the Hill to explain the move, while at the same time the legislators would work to overturn it by any legislative means necessary. The Daily Caller: Congressmen respond to FCC’s net neutrality plan In the wake of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) passing of a net neutrality plan, some Congressmen are already planning how to fight back. For some, that means the 1996 Congressional Review Act (CRA). Michigan Republican Rep. Fred Upton, the incoming chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Oregon Republican Rep. Greg Walden and Nebraska Republican Rep. Lee Terry have pledged to use that law to fight the FCC’s new regulations. Hannity Video: Blackburn on Net Neutrality The Hill: Republicans say net neutrality 'cannot be allowed to stand,' promise fight in 112th House Republicans are promising a swift reaction to the Federal Communication Commission's net-neutrality rules that could get off the ground as soon as January. Incoming House Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (Mich.) said in a press conference on Tuesday that his committee is planning multiple hearings to beat back regulations the FCC approved Tuesday. The regulations, which aim to prevent phone and cable companies from toying with Internet traffic, have stoked virtually unanimous resistance from House Republicans and found a growing constituency of opponents in the Senate. Los Angeles Times: FCC set to adopt net neutrality rules "The Internet has flourished without needless government intervention. We should step aside and allow the staggering innovations of tomorrow to proceed," said Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.), who next month will become chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which oversees the FCC. He has pledged tough oversight of the issue and plans to hold hearings early next year. POLITICO: GOP lawmakers threaten to repeal Net neutrality Joining Upton's calls for strict scrutiny and eventual repeal were Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Lee Terry (R-Neb.) and Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.). Walden, who will soon lead the House's top tech subcommittee, stressed the need to rebuff any FCC "power grab that'd allow the commission to regulate" other areas of broadband. Blackburn also floated the possibility of blocking agency funds for use on net neutrality, adding: "You will see activism on each of these levels." RealClearPolitics: Rep. Marsha Blackburn - FCC Internet Grab a Christmas Nightmare Just four days before Christmas, the FCC will make its vampric leap from its traditional jurisdiction- the terrestrial radio and land line telephones that have fallen into disuse; onto the gifts piled neatly under our trees. The iPads and iPhones, Androids, Wiis, Webbooks, and WiFi will all feel the federal bite in a way they never have before. RedState: The Obama FCC has regulated the Internet It should be fun to watch next year’s oversight hearings by incoming chairmen like Fred Upton and Darrell Issa, as well as the legislative steps taken by other outspoken Republicans like Marsha Blackburn. Townhall: Conservatives Plan Countermeasures to Neutralize FCC Internet Edict “On January 5, I will re-file a bill to prohibit the FCC from implementing these rules and regulations,” said Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn). “We, as members of Congress should control [the process of internet regulation] if we decide it’s necessary. There is strong bipartisan agreement on that point.” Blackburn said she expects a Senate companion bill, authored by Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), to address the issue in the upper chamber. “I look at this as the Fairness Doctrine of the internet,” she warned, “the FCC would be in a position to make determinations of online priorities and value. We will vigorously oppose [today’s FCC vote] because it’s a hysterical reaction to a hypothetical problem.” The Wall Street Journal: The Net Neutrality Coup - John Fund The campaign to regulate the Internet was funded by a who's who of left-liberal foundations. The Washington Post: FCC approves net-neutrality rules; criticism is immediate Reps. Fred Upton (R-Mich.) and Greg Walden (R-Ore.) said they would summon Genachowski for hearings on whether the agency has authority to pursue such rules. Upton, Walden and Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) said that the FCC's decision was a "power grab" and that legislation would be introduced to overturn the regulations. Meanwhile, Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Tex.) said she will move to withdraw funds appropriated to the FCC to execute the rules.
12.21.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, joined Reps. Greg Walden (R-OR) and Lee Terry (R-NE), incoming Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, respectively, in pledging immediate action in the new Congress to fight the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) action to regulate the Internet. Reps. Upton, Walden and Terry will look toward the Congressional Review Act of 1996 (CRA) to fight the FCC's actions. The CRA allows Congress to review and, through joint resolution, repeal federal agency-promulgated rules. Rep. Fred Upton, incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, stated: "The FCC's hostile actions toward innovation, investment and job creation cannot be allowed to stand. We must use every resource available, including the Congressional Review Act, to strike down the FCC's brazen effort to regulate the Internet. Today's vote is a sad commentary that this administration and the FCC continue to ignore the will of the American people - our new majority is committed to protecting personal liberty and reducing the size and scope of the government. Despite FCC claims that these are just rules of the road that everyone agrees with, anyone can recognize that what the Commission claims to be statements of broad industry support are really cries of 'uncle' resulting from threats of even more onerous regulation. All the Commission has done today is further harm our economy and job growth." Rep. Greg Walden, incoming Chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, stated: "More troubling than the substance of the network neutrality rules are the legal theories underpinning them. If left unchallenged, this power grab will allow the Commission to regulate any interstate wired or wireless communication on barely more than a whim. For all these reasons, we plan to look at all legislative options for reversing the decision. We also plan to hold a series of hearings early next year on the substance, process and claims of authority underlying this proceeding." Rep. Lee Terry, incoming Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, stated: “The FCC has irresponsibly decided to pursue a course unauthorized and opposed by most members of Congress. Today’s decision is a huge disappointment as this will be a major setback for consumers and will stifle new investment. This is just more big government intervention in the marketplace to try and fix something that isn’t broke.” Last week, Upton, Walden and Terry called upon FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski for greater transparency as the Commission considers rules to regulate the Internet. Read their joint letter HERE.
12.17.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, joined Reps. Greg Walden (R-OR) and Lee Terry (R-NE), incoming Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, respectively, in a joint letter urging Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Julius Genachowski for greater transparency as the Commission considers rules to regulate the Internet. Upton, Walden, and Terry are concerned that codification and enforcement of “network neutrality” principles would smother private investment and innovation, which have allowed the Internet to flourish. Further, they are alarmed that such regulation would directly defy the will of the Congress, which did not support legislation to grant the FCC the authority to enforce such principles. The Energy and Commerce Members will vigorously fight any effort to regulate the Internet, pledging strict oversight of the FCC and hearings early in the 112th Congress. In their December 16th letter to Chairman Genachowski, Upton, Walden, and Terry wrote, “We ask that you release the full text of your draft order regulating the Internet... Despite the reams of paper filed and scores of meetings held – or perhaps because of them – the public has not had a realistic and fulsome chance to analyze and comment on the proposal as it now stands. A theoretical opportunity to participate in this proceeding is not the same thing as transparency, especially with such a moving target. We also understand that close to two thousand pages of material have been added to the FCC record in this proceeding in just the last few days.” Upton, Walden, and Terry continued, “Your proposal to adopt network neutrality rules is likely the most controversial item the FCC has had before it in at least a decade. It holds huge implications for the future of the Internet, investment, innovation, and jobs. And even apart from the debate over the merits, the legal analysis underpinning the item will have huge implications for FCC jurisdiction, agency legitimacy, and the proper role of Congress as the original source of regulatory authority in a representative democracy.” Read the full text of the letter HERE.
12.16.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today announced the members who will serve atop the six Energy and Commerce subcommittees in the 112th Congress. Upton is splitting the current Energy and Environment Subcommittee jurisdiction into two separate subcommittees – Energy and Power, which will have jurisdiction over energy and Clean Air Act issues, and Environment and Economy, which will focus upon environmental regulations and their economic impact. Upton also announced that Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX) will serve as the Committee's Chairman Emeritus and Rep. Sue Myrick (R-NC) will serve as the Committee's Vice Chair. Full subcommittee rosters will be unveiled in the near future. "We could not have a more talented, accomplished group of members, from top to bottom, with such diverse backgrounds necessary to deliver the change the American people expect and demand," said Upton. "I am also pleased that Joe Barton will continue his distinguished service on the Committee as Chairman Emeritus." Upton continued, "Our challenges are many, and it will be all hands on deck for the Energy and Commerce Committee as we repeal Obamacare, cut spending, roll back job-killing regulations, unleash technological innovation, and fortify our nation’s energy security. Every member and every subcommittee will be on the frontlines as we take on federal agencies - EPA, HHS, DOE, FCC, you name it - to identify wasteful programs and target areas to immediately cut spending." Chairman Emeritus Joe Barton (TX) Vice Chair of Energy and Commerce Sue Myrick (NC) Subcommittee on Communications and Technology Chair - Greg Walden (OR) Vice Chair - Lee Terry (NE) Subcommittee on Health Chair - Joe Pitts (PA) Vice Chair - Mike Burgess (TX) Subcommittee on Energy and Power Chair - Ed Whitfield (KY) Vice Chair - John Sullivan (OK) Subcommittee on Environment and Economy Chair - John Shimkus (IL) Vice Chair - Tim Murphy (PA) Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Chair - Mary Bono Mack (CA) Vice Chair - Marsha Blackburn (TN) Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Chair - Cliff Stearns (FL) Upton also praised the selection of Energy and Commerce Committee member and Michigan colleague Mike Rogers as Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, stating, "I look forward to my friend and colleague Mike Rogers having an informal leadership role on Energy and Commerce - he will continue to be a pivotal, energetic voice in shaping policy as well as communicating our message directly to the American people."
12.16.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today joined incoming Committee Vice Chair and breast cancer survivor Rep. Sue Myrick (R-NC), incoming Health Subcommittee Chairman Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA) and senior Health Subcommittee Member Phil Gingrey, M.D. (R-GA) in releasing the following statement in response to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) decision to commence the process of removing approval of Avastin as a treatment for metastatic breast cancer. Reps. Gingrey, Myrick, Pitts and Upton are gravely concerned that the FDA is putting economics ahead of proper courses of treatment and that today's announcement is the first step towards government rationing of health care. Upton vows strict FDA oversight in the 112th Congress. Reps. Myrick and Gingrey pressed Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius on the FDA's pending action towards Avastin in a July letter. "Metastatic breast cancer patients often have limited options for treatment due to the aggressive nature of the disease. Patients in Europe will continue to have access to Avastin, one of the only drugs that treat women with stage IV breast cancers. Today, the European Medicines Agency issued a statement that it 'has confirmed that the benefits of Avastin in combination with paclitaxel outweigh its risks and that this combination remains a valuable treatment option for patients suffering from metastatic breast cancer.' "However, in this country the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is withdrawing approval for Avastin to treat late-stage breast cancer. Many in Congress have expressed concerns that the FDA’s review of Avastin would be predicated on its price – not in its effectiveness in treating patients. "Allowing the FDA to factor in the cost of a drug when determining whether that drug should be approved is the first big step towards government rationing. The FDA should only look at the safety and efficacy of a drug. Allowing the FDA to inject cost into the approval process jeopardizes the care of those nearly 18,000 women who rely on this drug. At a time when Europe is moving away from restricting access to life-saving medications, the FDA appears to be moving in the opposite direction. "Last year, the United States Preventive Services Task Force recommended that women under 50 forgo routine mammography screenings. Today, the FDA is withdrawing its approval of a drug that helps prolong the lives of thousands of women living with aggressive breast cancer. Unfortunately, this is only just the beginning. The new health reform law – the so-called Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act – creates 159 new boards, commissions, and agencies that will destroy the doctor-patient relationship and replace it with federal bureaucrats deciding who gets care and what treatments they can receive. "A doctor making medical decisions with informed patients has been the foundation of our medical system. The Energy and Commerce Committee is committed to repealing the new health care law and we will hold hearings to hold the FDA accountable for its decision and protect access to treatment for the thousands of women who rely on this drug."
12.14.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) has announced his service academy nominees for the 2011-2012 academic year. The nominees have excelled both academically and athletically at their respective schools and have gone through an extensive selection process. “I am pleased to have the opportunity to nominate these fine young men and women to our nation’s service academies. It is a responsibility I do not take lightly,” said Upton. “Each member of this distinguished group has successfully undergone a rigorous selection process, and you can be sure they are the finest southwest Michigan has to offer. Our entire community should be proud of their accomplishments. These exemplary young men and women represent America’s best and brightest and we look forward to their future achievements in our nation’s armed services." The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board, which is comprised of local community leaders. Upon approval by the board, the students’ names were then passed on to Upton, who then officially nominated the students to our nation’s military academies. The individual academies will make the final decisions on military appointments. All applicants to military academies must be nominated by a Member of Congress, the President or the Vice President. "It is an honor and privilege to nominate these students as they serve as an outstanding example for other local youth who might aspire to follow in their footsteps," said Upton. "I encourage local students who are interested in applying to the academies to contact either of my offices in Kalamazoo or St. Joseph/Benton Harbor if they are interested in opening a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our nation.” Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact either of Upton’s district offices for further information: St. Joseph/Benton Harbor (269-982-1986) or Kalamazoo (269-385-0039). Upton has nominated the following students for the class of 2015: The United States Military Academy / ARMY Corry Daoust Paw Paw Paw Paw High School Jackson Peebles Schoolcraft Mattawan High School Kevin Bryce Watervliet Watervliet High School The United States Naval Academy Raymond Greiner Portage Portage Northern High School Emily LaManna Stevensville Lakeshore High School Andrew McDougall Stevensville Lakeshore High School Alexander Wilcox Coloma Coloma High school Kyle Sankey Buchanan Bridgman High School Colin Burandt Niles Niles High School John Miller Centreville Centreville High School The United States Air Force Academy Madelyn Johnson Stevensville Lakeshore High School Stephen Coble Edwardsburg Edwardsburg High School Ian Parker Dorr Wayland High School
12.14.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, announced today that White House veteran and leading conservative Gary Andres will serve as Staff Director of the Committee in the 112th Congress. Upton has worked closely with Andres through the years on various issues, dating back to Andres' tenure in the Office of Legislative Affairs in the George H. W. Bush Administration. "The nation faces many challenges - whether repealing Obamacare, cutting spending or fighting job-killing regulations, we have monumental tasks on our plate at Energy and Commerce and the American people expect us to deliver. With so much at stake, there is no one more qualified to serve as Staff Director of Energy and Commerce than Gary Andres. For over two decades, Gary has been a leading voice in Republican policy, always seeking solutions to advance our principles to limit the size and scope of government." Upton continued, "I have long valued Gary's wisdom and friendship, dating back to his days in the Bush 41 White House. Gary knows how to focus like a laser beam to get the job done. He is one of the most respected, most knowledgeable individuals in Republican policy who has advised Presidents and Republican Leaders through the years and has the demeanor and relationships to help advance our agenda." Andres will bring a remarkable policy background to Capitol Hill. He currently serves as Vice Chairman of Public Policy and Research at Dutko Worldwide. His extensive writing career as a conservative voice includes serving as a weekly columnist for The Weekly Standard Online, and regularly contributing to publications like Politico, National Review, RealClearPolitics, and Roll Call. Andres served as Deputy Assistant for Legislative Affairs to President George H.W. Bush and was an advisor for the George W. Bush presidential transition team. Gary is also a Research Fellow at the American University Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies in Washington, D.C. He earned his Ph.D. in Public Policy at the University of Illinois (Chicago). "I look forward to this exciting opportunity to work with Fred and the new Republican majority," said Andres. "We are at a critical juncture in our nation's history, and Republicans must deliver on our pledge to the American people by cutting spending, repealing Obamacare, and helping create new jobs. What we accomplish at the Energy and Commerce Committee will be critical to earning back the trust of the American people."
12.13.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, made the following statement today in regards to the ruling by U.S. District Court Judge Henry Hudson of the Eastern District of Virginia, which declared the Democrats’ health care law to be unconstitutional. One of Upton's top priorities in the new Congress will be repealing the job-killing health care law. “Today, a U.S. District Court ratified what many Americans have known for the past year: the health care law is not only bad policy, it is unconstitutional as well. This decision strikes a blow for freedom and the enduring constitutional principles of our forefathers. “When the health care law was being debated, Energy and Commerce Republicans warned that Obamacare represented an unprecedented intrusion by government into the lives of American citizens. At the time, we argued that the individual mandate violated Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution – the Commerce Clause – because it purported to regulate an individual’s ‘inactivity.’ If the government could compel individuals to engage in activities they wished to avoid – such as the purchase of health insurance – what restrictions could there possibly be on government’s power? “That is why today’s decision striking down the individual mandate is so welcome. While the legal fights over the health care law are just beginning, our Committee will vigorously weigh in and assert our oversight authority to ensure that the federal government is returned to its properly limited role. Our top priority in the new Congress will be repealing the job-killing health care law. “In the months ahead, we will be holding hearings on the unconstitutional aspects of the health care law and other critical health care challenges facing our nation. In the meantime, we urge the administration to cease and desist its efforts to implement the law and work with Congress on reforms that actually reduce costs for consumers in a free-market, constitutionally permissible manner.”
12.13.2010	As the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) enters the final stages of its review of the Comcast-NBC Universal transaction, Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, is urging Chairman Julius Genachowski to ensure the Commission remains committed to a fair, transparent process. Upton believes unnecessary delays in the Commission’s review and ruling on the merger would cause further economic uncertainty for businesses looking to invest, innovate, and create jobs. Upton also urged the FCC to issue its ruling by the end of the calendar year. In the letter to Chairman Genachowski, Upton warned, “Do not let opportunistic competitors or special interest groups undermine your regulatory process by using the transaction review as a vehicle to implement their industry-wide policy wish lists or unwarranted conditions. Failing to remain focused on issues directly related to this transaction would create uncertainty for future business transactions, and harm investment and innovation... I will be troubled if it appears that the Commission is using this transaction to accomplish broader, partisan objectives that it does not have the policy support to impose industry-wide, that it might not have the authority to pursue were it not presented with a license transaction, and that the parties cannot object to without risking their proposed endeavor.” Upton continued, “Last month, the American people sent a clear message to the federal government: they want to see the national economy turned around, they want to see investment and innovation, and they do not support interventionist government policies. I sincerely hope that you are undertaking a thorough and fair review of the proposed Comcast-NBCU Joint Venture, and urge you to rule on this transaction before the end of this calendar year.” Read Upton's letter to FCC Chairman Genachowski HERE.
12.10.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today welcomed the 12 new Republican members of the Energy and Commerce Committee as well as the return of former Committee member Representative Greg Walden (R-OR). “We have a great team with diverse backgrounds to deliver what the American people expect and demand - we will repeal Obamacare, cut spending, eliminate rampant, job-killing regulations, fortify our energy security, and help create jobs. I look forward to working with all of our members to put the country back to work and back on track." The new Republican Members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, in alphabetical order, are: Charlie Bass (NH) Brian Bilbray (CA) Bill Cassidy (LA) Cory Gardner (CO) Morgan Griffith (VA) Brett Guthrie (KY) Gregg Harper (MS) Adam Kinzinger (IL) David McKinley (WV) Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA) Pete Olson (TX) Mike Pompeo (KS) Greg Walden (OR)
12.10.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) gave the following tribute in recognition of the service of retiring Michigan State Senator Ron Jelinek. Both lifelong Berrien County residents, Upton and Jelinek have worked closely together over the years on issues impacting families and businesses in southwest Michigan. Jelinek has served in the State Legislature since 1996 and is retiring after serving three two-year terms in the State House and two four-year terms in the State Senate. Upton made his tribute in the Congressional Record on December 2, 2010. The full text of Upton’s remarks follows below. Madam Speaker, I rise today to pay special tribute to my dear friend, State Senator Ron Jelinek of Berrien County on the occasion of his retirement. A lifelong Michigan resident, Ron has dedicated himself to serving the people of southwest Michigan and improving the quality of life for all Michiganders. After receiving his degrees from Michigan State University and Western Michigan University, Ron began his career as an educator in the River Valley School District, where he taught for three decades. In 1996, Ron was first elected to the Michigan House of Representatives where he was popularly reelected to two additional terms. Ron was then elected to the Michigan State Senate in 2002. Throughout his 14 distinguished years in public office, Ron has been a leading champion of public education and Michigan agriculture. Beyond the duties of elected office, Ron has proven himself to be a natural community servant. He serves as a member of the Berrien County Farm Bureau, the Three Oaks Free Methodist Church, the Michigan Coalition of Responsible Gun Owners, and the River Valley Engine Club. He also was a co-founder, officer, and volunteer for the Three Oaks Ambulance Service, and involved in Future Farmers of America, 4-H, and Girl Scouts. Ron’s leadership, knowledge, and compassion have made him an indispensible asset to the citizens of Berrien County and the State of Michigan. As Senator Ron Jelinek prepares for his retirement, he leaves both an example for future public servants and a legacy that will benefit southwest Michigan for years to come. I am truly honored to call Ron a colleague and friend. Madam speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
12.09.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today expressed concern with the announcement that the Oyster Creek Generating Station in New Jersey will be retired in 2019, ten years ahead of schedule, due to hundreds of millions of dollars in costs to comply with cooling water regulations. Last week, Upton called on Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lisa Jackson for greater transparency as the agency considers action on cooling water intake structures at existing electric generation and manufacturing facilities. As in the case of Oyster Creek, the costs of compliance would force many plants to shutter, contributing to significantly higher energy prices and tens of thousands of lost jobs. "The early retirement of the Oyster Creek Generating Station should serve as a wake-up call that rampant regulations are shutting down power plants and costing jobs," said Upton. "Oyster Creek is a foreboding sign of what awaits the nuclear power industry if federal and state regulators continue to promulgate rules and regulations with no cost-benefit analysis. We cannot allow bureaucrats to regulate the nuclear energy sector out of business - nuclear is a reliable, inexpensive and emissions-free source of power. It is the citizens of New Jersey who will pay the price, as Oyster Creek powers 600,000 homes and employs 700 folks. At a time when we are woefully unprepared to meet our nation's growing energy demands, we should be working to bring more power online, rather than shutting down plants." In a December 3rd letter to EPA Administrator Jackson, Upton wrote, “Given that this rulemaking has the potential to affect more than 400 power plants throughout the country and could impact energy supply and reliability, I am concerned about the direction of the proposal and its timing. The potential retrofit costs could be substantial ($200-300 million per unit for coal and $700 million to $1 billion for nuclear power plants) and some coal steam generators may not have the space necessary for the installation of cooling towers and other associated equipment. This could result in the retirement of some of these generators.” Upton's December 3rd letter to Administrator Jackson can be found HERE.
12.09.2010	Sen. James Inhofe (R-Okla.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, and Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Chairman-elect of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, issued a joint letter this evening to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson on EPA's decision to delay its revision to the 2008 National Ambient Air Quality Standard for ozone. Inhofe and Upton wrote that they are "fully committed to conducting vigorous oversight on this matter, including ensuring that EPA conducts an open, transparent, and fair process." Upton and Inhofe wrote that they are "gravely concerned with the direction the Agency is headed" on revising the standard, given that the Agency's present course could cost thousands of jobs and restrict economic growth in local communities. "Depending on where the level is set," they wrote, "EPA estimates the economic costs of a new standard could reach $90 billion, while private studies show costs far exceeding this estimate. Those same studies show that EPA's revision could cost thousands of jobs." "A nonattainment designation is akin to posting a ‘closed for business' sign on a local community," they continued. "Non-attainment can mean loss of industry and economic development, including plant closures; loss of federal highway and transit funding; increased EPA regulation and control over permitting decisions; increased costs for industrial facilities to implement more stringent controls; and increased fuel and energy costs." Inhofe and Upton also called on Administrator Jackson to consider "the full range of scientific studies and information, including considering studies, and interpretations of studies, that the agency may disagree with." Moreover, they demanded the agency provide "a meaningful public comment period, in which stakeholders can contribute additional studies, as well as their knowledge and expertise." Finally, Inhofe and Upton wrote that, "In our respective roles on the committees of jurisdiction over EPA, we are fully committed to conducting vigorous oversight on this matter, including ensuring that EPA conducts an open, transparent, and fair process. In the coming weeks, we will be sending you a number of technical questions about your interactions with [the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee]-and the quality and rigor of the science the agency is reviewing." Read the text of the letter HERE.
12.08.2010	The House Republican Conference today selected Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) to be the Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee in the 112th Congress. Upton made the following statement after the vote. "Our challenges are great with near double-digit unemployment and record deficits, but our new majority and leadership team led by Speaker Boehner are ready to deliver. We will stand firm in our fight to repeal Obamacare, cut reckless spending, strip away the countless job-killing regulations, and spur job creation. We must work towards a new era of less government and more jobs - the administration's rampant spending and unfettered, two-year assault on the health, energy, and telecommunications sectors is now over." Upton has named Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA) as the Chairman of the Health Subcommittee. No further decisions on subcommittees will be made until Upton sits down with all members of the Committee individually next week to discuss their legislative priorities.
12.08.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), incoming Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, made the following statement today in regards to the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) announcement that it was delaying release of revised guidelines for ground-level ozone. Some estimates predict the new guidelines would result in nearly 7 million lost jobs and cost $1 trillion annually. "At a time of near double-digit unemployment, the EPA should stand down altogether from any action that will further hamstring our fragile economy," said Upton. "The EPA’s relentless efforts to change the standard will send a devastating economic shockwave coast to coast, threatening every community with increased costs to industry, permitting delays, and restrictions on economic development. Let’s refocus our efforts on putting folks back to work." Upton recently wrote a column detailing the devastating impact EPA regulations have had upon jobs and the economy in The Washington Times - read Upton's article HERE.
12.07.2010	The House Republican Steering Committee today selected Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) to be the next Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Upton, who has served on the Energy and Commerce Committee since 1991, made the following statement upon learning of the Steering Committee vote. "I look forward to standing shoulder to shoulder with Speaker Boehner, Leader Cantor, Whip McCarthy and the entire Republican Conference as we repeal Obamacare, fight rampant job-killing regulations, cut spending, and help put folks back to work. "As our new majority pledged to America, 'We dedicate ourselves to the task of reconnecting our highest aspirations to the permanent truths of our founding by keeping faith with the values our nation was founded on, the principles we stand for, and the priorities of our people.' "We face many challenges, but priority number one is to repeal the job-killing Obamacare law. While the various subcommittee posts will be filled in the days ahead, the fight to repeal Obamacare starts now and I am pleased to appoint Rep. Joe Pitts as chairman of the Health Subcommittee. Together, we will protect the sanctity of life, ensuring early next Congress that no federal funds are used for abortion. "Energy and Commerce will also immediately adopt new rules to cut spending and restore fiscal responsibility. "If we have learned anything these last two years of soaring unemployment and out-of-control spending, it is that government is not the answer to all our ills - it is, in fact, the root cause of many of them. "The Obama administration is on notice - they will not be allowed to regulate what they have been unable to legislate. "In his January 1989 farewell address to the nation, my old boss President Ronald Reagan warned: 'As government expands, liberty contracts.' The American people spoke loud and clear on November 2nd, and we have a charge to stand up for liberty and deliver the real change that the American public expects and demands. We will not let them down." A copy of Upton's memo to his Republican colleagues is attached and can also be found HERE.
12.06.2010	Marking the 50th anniversary of the designation of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, is urging President Obama to ignore pleas from Senate Democrats to permanently block responsible drilling of ANWR's vast reserves. Upton has been a longtime supporter of drilling in ANWR and supports an "all of the above" approach to fortify the nation's energy needs with American-made energy. Upton and former Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham also made the case today for drilling in ANWR in a joint op-ed for POLITICO. In the letter to President Obama, Upton wrote, "As ranking Republican on the Energy and Environment Subcommittee, I understand the politics of ANWR very well, and acknowledge that the base of your party is uncomfortable with lifting the moratorium on exploration and production in ANWR. Nevertheless, I urge you to put our nation’s needs ahead of politics, and implore you not to make it impossible to ever explore for natural resources in ANWR." Upton continued, "Of course, I do not need to remind you that the unemployment rate is too high and our fiscal situation is dire. Opening up ANWR would help alleviate these economic problems, as detailed in an ICF International Study prepared for the American Petroleum Institute published in December of 2008. That study concluded that allowing exploration of ANWR would lead to approximately 62,000 additional jobs in the year 2030 alone. Over the lifetime of an open ANWR, the government revenue would be in excess of $164 billion. Those are real jobs and real revenues, neither of which would be created by increasing the size and scope of the federal government or by further taxing our already over-taxed citizens. I urge you not to permanently block access to the abundant natural resources that lie in ANWR." A copy of Upton's letter to President Obama can be found HERE.
12.03.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today called on Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lisa Jackson for greater transparency as the agency considers action on cooling water intake structures at existing electric generation and manufacturing facilities. The potential costs to the economy could be devastating, up to $300 million per coal plant and $1 billion per nuclear plant, impacting hundreds of facilities and thousands of jobs across the nation. The costs of compliance would force many plants to shutter, contributing to significantly highly energy prices. In the letter to Administrator Jackson, Upton wrote, “Given that this rulemaking has the potential to affect more than 400 power plants throughout the country and could impact energy supply and reliability, I am concerned about the direction of the proposal and its timing. The potential retrofit costs could be substantial ($200-300 million per unit for coal and $700 million to $1 billion for nuclear power plants) and some coal steam generators may not have the space necessary for the installation of cooling towers and other associated equipment. This could result in the retirement of some of these generators.” Upton also called on the Agency to ensure the rulemaking process remain deliberative and transparent, writing, “In the interest of greater transparency, I urge you to make sure that all supporting information – including technical documents clearly describing the analyses and assumptions on which EPA will rely and the underlying non-CBI data – be made available as soon as any comment period begins. I also ask that you allow sufficient time at the outset for the public to digest and prepare comments on the rule. I suggest 180 days as the minimum time necessary for a rule of this magnitude. I further caution the Agency against finalizing a settlement agreement that does not provide EPA with the timing and flexibility to craft a sound rule that avoids unintended adverse consequences to the environment, energy supply and reliability that a one-size-fits-all technology mandate would create.” Read the full text of the letter HERE.
12.02.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) is reminding folks in southwest Michigan to keep our troops and veterans foremost in their thoughts by participating in the Holiday Mail for Heroes program. For the fourth year, the American Red Cross and Pitney Bowes Inc. have joined forces for the Holiday Mail for Heroes program to provide Americans with the opportunity to extend holiday greetings and thanks to service members and veterans. “A holiday greeting can make quite a difference in the life of one of our troops currently in service or one of our heroic veterans – providing a simple, yet powerful reminder that the American public is grateful for their service,” said Upton. “What better way to personally thank our troops and veterans this holiday season than with a card. I hope everyone will take a moment to remember our troops and veterans and thank them in their own words. The gesture of a card will mean so much to those brave men and women who have made tremendous sacrifices for our nation.” Each year the American Red Cross provides assistance to over 2 million service members and many of our nation’s 24 million veterans. The holiday season is the perfect time to extend a warm greeting and word of gratitude to those who have served and continue to do so. The Red Cross has requested that folks keep in mind a few guidelines: Do... • Include your heartfelt sentiments and sign all cards • Entitle cards with generic terms such as “Dear Service Member, Family or Veteran” • Limit cards to 15 per person or 50 per school class or business group • Bundle groups of cards in single, large envelopes Don’t... • Send letters, care packages or monetary gifts • Include personal information such as home or email addresses • Use glitter – excessive amounts can aggravate health issues of wounded recipients • Include inserts of any kind as they must be removed in the screening process Cards must be received by Holiday Mail for Heroes no later than December 10th. Cards received after this date will be returned to senders. Holiday cards should be addressed and sent to: Holiday Mail for Heroes P.O. Box 5456 Capitol Heights, MD 20791-5456 Upton is also collecting cards at both of his district offices in St. Joseph and Kalamazoo – Upton will forward cards to Holiday Mail for Heroes that are received in either office by December 8th. Those interested may send cards to either office or drop them off in person. St. Joseph/Benton Harbor District Office 800 Centre 800 Ship Street St. Joseph, MI 269-982-1986 Kalamazoo District Office 157 South Kalamazoo Mall Suite 180 Kalamazoo, MI 269-385-0039 Every card received will be screened for hazardous materials by Pitney Bowes and distributed to participating Red Cross chapters nationwide. Once the cards arrive at the Red Cross chapters, they are sorted and reviewed by volunteers who then distribute them to service members, their families and veterans in communities across the country. For additional information and card requirements, please visit with www.redcross.org/holidaymail.
12.02.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today expressed his concerns that Speaker Pelosi’s most recent tax stunt further imperils the nation's families and small businesses. The move threatens to extend the current period of elevated unemployment and economic uncertainty as well as further drag down our economy. Upton strongly supports permanently extending all of the tax cuts before they expire December 31, 2010. "House Democrats continue to fiddle while Rome burns – the nation’s working families and small businesses cannot afford further delay," said Upton. "The Democrats' latest gimmick is nothing short of a massive tax increase for nearly 750,000 small business owners. With unemployment stuck at 9.6 percent, it is critical for Congress to extend the tax cuts now to provide small businesses the certainty they need to start hiring new workers. The clock is ticking, and in just over four weeks, every single family will see their taxes go up in the form of a $3.8 trillion hike." Upton continued, "Had the process allowed for open debate and amendments - letting the House work its will - all of the tax cuts would undoubtedly have already been extended with bipartisan support, thus averting a tax hike that hits small businesses struggling to stay afloat. This latest stunt by House Democrats epitomizes exactly what folks across the country objected to on November 2nd - not allowing a full, fair, transparent process on an issue so critically important to every American's pocketbook and job." Upton is a signer of the Americans for Tax Reform Taxpayer Protection Pledge opposing “any and all efforts” to increase taxes on families and businesses.
12.01.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-Michigan), senior member and former chairman of the House Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet, made the following statement in regard to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Julius Genachowski’s expressed intention to regulate the Internet. "The relentless push towards net neutrality reveals this administration and the FCC remain tone deaf to the will of the American people. First it was cap-and-trade, then health care, and now they have launched an all out assault to regulate the Internet. "We have all grown sick and tired of the Chicago-style politics to ram through job-killing measures at any cost, regardless of the consequences or damage to our economy. Rather than put a gun to the heads of our largest economic engines, now is the time for the FCC to cease and desist. The FCC does not have authority to regulate the Internet, and pursuing net neutrality through Title I or reclassification is wholly unacceptable. Our new majority will use rigorous oversight, hearings and legislation to fight the FCC's overt power grab. "After 15 months of near double-digit unemployment, it is astonishing that the administration continues to believe government regulation is the answer to everything. More government red tape will only further thwart our economic recovery and derail future job growth. "The Internet has flourished without needless government intervention - we should step aside and allow the staggering innovations of tomorrow to proceed."
12.01.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today expressed disappointment in response to the Obama Administration's expanding its offshore drilling moratorium. Upton, co-chair of the American Energy Solutions Group, strongly supports an “all of the above” approach to fortify the nation's energy needs, including a greater emphasis on domestic exploration, coal, the advancement of breakthrough technologies, and the promotion of emissions-free nuclear power. "They are cheering in the streets of Caracas and Tehran today over the administration’s misguided offshore drilling moratorium," said Upton. "We are long overdue for a thoughtful, visionary energy policy that puts a premium on American-made energy. We need an 'all of the above' approach with offshore drilling right at the top. Let's stop punishing American workers - pursuing American-made energy will not only ensure our energy security, it will ensure our job security."
11.30.2010	U.S. Reps. Fred Upton (MI-06) and Ed Whitfield (KY-01), senior Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today called on the U.S. Secretary of Commerce to immediately release the department's economic impact analysis of EPA's Boiler Maximum Available Control Technology (MACT) rule. Upton and Whitfield are gravely concerned with various reports that forecast drastic costs and crippling job losses resulting from EPA's proposed rule change. Time is critical as final rules are expected by January 14, 2011. In the letter to Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, Upton and Whitfield wrote, “It is our understanding that the U.S. Department of Commerce has conducted an economic impact analysis of the Boiler MACT rule, including its impact on manufacturing and employment, but that despite the importance and relevance of the analysis, it has not been publicly released. The Commerce Department is to be commended for examining the economic impacts of EPA’s rules, which helps fulfill its mission to ‘advance economic growth and jobs and opportunities for the American people.’ But in order to benefit from the study’s findings, we request that the Commerce Department share them with Congress, other administrative agencies, and the American public.” Upton and Whitfield also expressed their alarm to Locke, writing, “The Commerce Department’s analysis may be especially important given the sharply contrasting results of other Boiler MACT studies to date. While EPA projected $9.5 billion in total capital costs, a study by IHS Global Insight on behalf of the Congress of Industrial Boiler Owners (CIBO) found capital costs of $20 billion. The CIBO study and one by the paper industry predicted the loss of hundreds of thousands of American manufacturing jobs. We are also troubled by comments from the U.S. Small Business Administration, which warned of ‘significant new regulatory costs’ for ‘businesses, institutions and municipalities across the country.’ With interagency review slated to begin within days, time is short to understand any economic and jobs impacts from the Boiler MACT rule and make appropriate changes to the final regulations.” A copy of the full letter can be found HERE.
11.24.2010	This week, many folks will travel across the country to reunite with their loved ones for Thanksgiving. It is a chance for all of us to briefly pause from the hustle and bustle of our daily lives and gather with friends and family to give thanks for all the blessing in our lives. Thanksgiving is a special time of year when folks brave relentless highway gridlock and teeming airports and train stations to reunite for a few days of celebration and reflection – reliving old memories and making new ones. Every Thanksgiving morning, our family usually treks to Warren Woods where we walk and run with everyone’s dogs, who of course always find their way into the stream. Once, I confess, I ended up wet as well, slipping off a tree that had fallen across. Somehow that story keeps getting better and better every year. My children, Meg and Stephen, are anxious for a break from their busy schedules and a few home-cooked meals. And my wife Amey and I are looking forward to having our whole family together, even if it is only for a few days. Our kids are growing up so quickly, and it is these times together that mean the most. Even with the challenges that our country faces here at home and around the world, we all have so much to give thanks for this holiday season. The times we share with family and loved ones are priceless. I hope that everyone will take a few moments this week to remember all of those men and women who are not able to be with this year. Our thoughts and prayers are with our nation’s brave servicemen and women who are serving in Iraq, Afghanistan and across the globe. We thank all our courageous soldiers and their families who have made tremendous sacrifices so that we may continue to enjoy our freedom and security here at home. We are all so proud of them and we wish they were here so we could thank them personally. Amey and I wish you and your loved ones a safe, happy and healthy Thanksgiving holiday.
11.23.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, is seeking answers from Department of Energy Secretary Steven Chu on the impact the administration's $800 billion stimulus package had on jobs. Despite repeated claims that the stimulus would keep the nation's unemployment rate below 8 percent, it has remained at or above 9.5 percent for 15 consecutive months. In the letter to Secretary Chu, Upton wrote, "The Obama administration and congressional Democrats narrowly passed a $862 billion stimulus package (the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009) in February of 2009 on the promise that money would go out the door immediately to shovel-ready projects and that the unemployment rate would stay below 8 percent. ... It is clear that the President’s economic team was wrong about unemployment staying below 8 percent. It is also now clear that the President was incorrect in his assertion that money would go out the door immediately to shovel-ready projects. President Obama has recently been quoted as saying, 'there’s no such thing as shovel-ready projects.'" Upton submitted the following questions to Secretary Chu regarding Department of Energy’s approximately $40 billion portion of the stimulus: 1. Were any changes made to federal regulatory requirements since February 18, 2009 that would shorten the amount of time for money to go out the door for shovel-ready projects? a. If yes, please describe each change made to the federal regulatory requirements. b. If no, please explain why not. 2. Is it true that as of the date of this letter, less than $10 billion of the approximately $40 billion has been paid out? 3. Why have less than 25 percent of the available funds been paid out, 20 months after the Stimulus was signed by the President? 4. How many jobs were created as a result of the grants awarded by the Department of Energy listed below? Please provide documentation proving that such jobs were actually created as a direct result of Stimulus funding. Please do not include jobs “saved” in your answer. a. $5 million geothermal grant to Oak Ridge City Center in Oak Ridge, Tennessee for a mall to install a geothermal energy system. b. $2.6 million geothermal grant to the Denver Museum of Nature and Science. c. $157,800 solar panel grant to the Movement Climbing and Fitness gym in Boulder, Colorado. d. $25,000 energy efficiency grant to the town of Sykesville, Maryland. e. $935,000 weatherization grant to the African Heritage Dancers and Drummers of Washington, DC. 5. How many jobs have been created for every Department of Energy Stimulus grant made that was over $500,000? Please provide supporting documentation. 6. Why did Iberdrola Renewables, Inc. receive $72.6 million for building a wind farm that was completed before the Stimulus became law? Please confirm that the Department of Energy is not claiming that any jobs were created or saved as a result of this particular grant, or for that matter any grants that were awarded after a project’s completion, as the completion of such a project could not have been dependent on the receipt of Stimulus funding. 7. Do you agree with President Obama that there are no such things as shovel ready projects? a. If yes, will you stop using the term “shovel-ready” going forward because it is misleading to claim that something is shovel-ready if, by definition, there is no such thing as a shovel-ready project? b. If no, please explain why not. For a copy of Upton's letter to Secretary Chu, visit HERE.
11.22.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, is urging the Environmental Protection Agency to stand down in its efforts to regulate coal combustion residuals (CCRs). Upton pointed out that EPA already concluded in its final 2000 regulatory determination that CCRs do not warrant regulation under RCRA’s hazardous waste program and there is not a technical or legal basis for reversing that final decision. Currently, approximately 44 percent of CCRs are recycled for beneficial use - widely used in concrete, shingles, asphalt, wall boards and bricks - equating to more than $2 billion in economic activity. The recycling community has repeatedly cautioned EPA that regulating CCRs as hazardous waste in any manner – even with a stated “exemption” for beneficial use - will severely stunt the growth of the fledgling green jobs CCR recycling industry due to the legal exposure, product liability and public perceptions associated with attempting to recycle a material classified as a hazardous waste. In a letter to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, Upton wrote, "The collapse of the CCR beneficial use market – which would occur as the sole result of EPA’s action – will result in the loss of thousands of small business jobs and needlessly forfeit the significant environmental and economic benefits associated with the beneficial use of CCRs. This cannot be allowed to occur, especially when there is no technical basis for regulating CCRs under RCRA’s hazardous waste regulations and the economy is struggling to rebound from the worst recession in a generation with millions of Americans out of work." Upton continued, "I am additionally concerned with the enormous costs which would be imposed on electric utilities, and ultimately by electricity consumers, as result of Subtitle C regulation. I understand that Subtitle C compliance costs for the utility industry would, at the minimum, be in the range of approximately $55.3 billion to $74.5 billion, and likely much higher. There is absolutely no basis for imposing these costs on our power sector when the Agency has concluded in two previous Reports to Congress and two final regulatory determinations that CCRs do not warrant hazardous waste regulation and that CCRs can be safely managed at much lower costs under RCRA’s Subtitle D non-hazardous waste program." Upton also questioned if the EPA possessed the authority to move forward with the proposed rulemaking, "Finally, I am particularly troubled by EPA’s assumption that it has the authority to independently reverse its previous final regulatory determinations for CCRs that were completed under the well defined procedures of the Bevill Amendment. Congress did not provide EPA with this type of unilateral authority... EPA cannot simply reverse course on that final decision; to do so, would render meaningless the statutorily prescribed procedures Congress specifically required EPA to follow in determining whether CCRs warrant regulation under RCRA Subtitle C." A copy of Upton's letter can be found HERE.
11.19.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-Michigan), senior member and former chairman of the House Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet, made the following statement in response to various press reports that the FCC is gearing up to circumvent Congress in regulating broadband. “I hope that the only turkey cooking next week will be in our kitchens on Thanksgiving and not at the FCC. I am alarmed and disappointed with press reports indicating the FCC will blatantly seek to circumvent Congress and seize authority that they do not have. Rather than poison the well before the new Congress is sworn in, I urge the FCC to stand down on any movement toward net neutrality and work together with the new majority when the 112th Congress convenes in January. We should work to create jobs rather than impose further regulations that will extinguish the flicker of economic hope that now burns with the prospect of a new Congress.” “After two years of inaction, the Energy and Commerce Committee will be quite active in fulfilling the oversight responsibilities our Founding Fathers expected - the FCC will be prominently featured and Chairman Genachowski will soon be a familiar face on Capitol Hill."
11.18.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, made the following statement today in response to House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Doc Hastings' effort to seize the energy portfolio from the House Energy and Commerce Committee. "This ill-advised proposition could not come at a worse time and would have dire consequences. "The current administration has fallen asleep at the wheel in addressing the nation's energy needs and has taken a regulatory path that kills jobs and makes energy more expensive at a time when the nation’s families can least afford it. "It is imperative to keep the energy and environment portfolio together under the roof of the Energy and Commerce Committee, to ensure we can stop the administration from regulating what they could not legislate. We all agree on an 'all of the above' approach to fortify our energy needs, but splitting jurisdiction weakens our hand to fight the EPA and the White House. "Such a move would only benefit EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson and energy czar Carol Browner at a time when our new majority is well positioned to chart a new course on energy. "I have contacted our newly-elected leadership team to ensure they understand what a disastrous decision this would be."
11.16.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, is contacting members of the Republican Conference to outline his vision as Committee Chairman. Serving the last twelve years as a chairman and ranking member on the Oversight, Communications and Energy subcommittees, Upton has demonstrated steady leadership, knowledge and experience on the major issues confronting the nation. Upton writes, “My vision for the Energy and Commerce Committee is a conservative agenda that focuses on cutting spending, removing the regulatory burden, restoring freedom, keeping government accountable through rigorous oversight, and jobs. We are going to take a coordinated approach that involves other Committees and our Conference, and focuses on an aggressive communications strategy that effectively articulates our message to the American people. The job-killing policies of Obama and Pelosi end here.” In his letter to Republican Members and Members-elect, Upton pledged to the Conference that as Chairman, he: WILL work with all the members of our Conference as one team; WILL pass legislation to repeal ObamaCare; WILL conduct rigorous oversight of every program, budget, regulation and agency within our jurisdiction; WILL aggressively cut spending by adopting new Committee rules to foster spending cuts and eliminate government programs; and WILL protect the sanctity of human life by rigorous oversight and passing legislation to permanently ensure that no federal funds go toward abortion, including: Rep. Joe Pitts’ Protect Life Act and Rep. Chris Smith’s No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. A copy of Upton's full letter to Speaker-elect Boehner and members of the Republican Conference can be found HERE. Upton also outlined details of spending cuts that should be made at the committee level in a joint op-ed with Americans for Tax Reform's Grover Norquist. The joint piece was posted yesterday online at POLITICO.com
11.16.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, is demanding answers from White House energy czar Carol Browner over the administration’s decision to enact a six-month deepwater drilling moratorium in the aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf. In the letter to Browner, Upton raises concerns over a Department of the Interior Inspector General review that determined White House staff had made edits to the Executive Summary of Interior’s Report leading to the false implication that the drilling moratorium recommendation had been peer-reviewed by experts. In his letter to Ms. Browner, Upton wrote, “The administration proceeded with its moratorium despite the fact that thousands of American jobs would be lost, the offshore oil and gas industry would suffer, and that it would have negative ramifications on U.S. domestic energy supply…I am concerned that the Report’s Executive Summary may have been misleading as drafted as it implied that the decision to impose a six-month deepwater drilling moratorium was peer reviewed by scientists and industry experts, when that was not the case. … I would like to know what prompted any last-minute edits that were made by your staff to the Executive Summary and whether these changes were made to bolster the case for the moratorium.” Upton specifically is seeking answers from Browner on: 1. What edits were made by your staff to the original DOI draft Executive Summary, as determined in the OIG’s Investigative Report? 2. What prompted these edits and under whose direction were they made? Please provide all written documentation concerning these changes and their authorization. 3. Was it the intention of you or your staff to misleadingly suggest that the Report’s Executive Summary had been peer reviewed by experts, when that was not actually the case? Upton is co-chair of the House Republicans’ American Energy Solutions Group and a strong supporter of the “all of the above” American Energy Act (H.R. 2846) to fortify the nation’s energy needs through increased production of domestic natural resources. View the full text of the letter HERE.
11.11.2010	This Veterans Day, we will come together as a nation to say thank you to our veterans and to pay tribute to the many generations of heroes who sacrificed their tomorrows so that we may enjoy our freedoms today. Veterans Day is a day of reflection and remembrance, honoring those who have served and sacrificed for our country. As we in Southwest Michigan know all too well, freedom does not come without a price. Since last year, we have deeply felt the price of our freedom through the sacrifices made by so many of our own. Today, let us take a moment to pay special tribute to those soldiers from our community who have made the ultimate sacrifice this past year: Army Sergeant Daniel Frazier of Niles, Senior Airman James Hansen of Athens, and Sergeant Anthony Matteoni of Union City. These young men were members of our community, following a selfless path that led them to the frontlines. We are all grateful for them, and it is with a heavy heart we remember their sacrifices and also the sacrifices of their families. As we gather today at memorials and ceremonies, we are reminded that many of our loved ones are still fighting in Afghanistan, Iraq, and around the globe. The reminders are everywhere, as plain as an empty seat at the dinner table. We wish they were here with us today so that we could give our personal thanks. Our hearts and prayers are with them and their families, and we all look forward to their safe return home. It is not difficult to see our community is blessed with the rich tradition of service and sacrifice. From generation to generation - they were a father or mother, sister or brother, son or daughter. They were our neighbors or classmates, our friends or colleagues, and when the nation needed them, they answered the call. Thank you to all of our veterans from the bottom of our hearts. Freedom is alive and well because of your service. We are the land of the free because of our brave.
11.10.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today called on Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to remove the bureaucratic roadblocks that have delayed the administration’s approval of the Keystone XL pipeline application. The proposed cross-border oil pipeline would stretch from Alberta, Canada to refineries on the Gulf Coast, supplying approximately 50 percent of United States’ oil imports. The $7 billion project is expected to stimulate $20 billion in new spending for the U.S. economy and spur the creation of 118,000 jobs. Upton urged Secretary Clinton to promptly approve the Presidential permit application. In his letter to Secretary Clinton, Upton wrote, "As my old boss, President Ronald Reagan, once said, 'Government is not the solution to our problem, government is the problem.' Government is currently standing in the way of this $7 billion privately funded project, which is expected to stimulate $20 billion in new spending for the U.S. economy and spur the creation of 118,000 jobs. Our number one priority must be job creation, and this is a prime example of the over-burdensome regulatory system that is killing the private sector. Government must stand back and allow the U.S. economy to rebound. If not we will continue to see our jobs go overseas… Canada is our ally and neighbor, so shifting our imports from hostile regimes to a friendly one is a no-brainer.” Upton is co-chair of the House Republicans’ American Energy Solutions Group and a strong supporter of the “all of the above” American Energy Act (H.R. 2846) to fortify the nation's energy needs through increased production of domestic natural resources. Read the full text of Upton's letter here.
11.05.2010	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today echoed calls for Speaker Pelosi to schedule a vote to permanently halt the record $3.8 trillion in tax hikes scheduled to kick in on January 1st. Congress is set to reconvene the week of November 15th. Upton is a signer of the American’s for Tax Reform Taxpayer Protection Pledge opposing “any and all efforts” to increase taxes on families and businesses. “The American public spoke loud and clear on Tuesday night, and it’s well past time to stop the spending and stop the tax hikes,” said Upton. “With unemployment stuck at 9.6 percent, it is critical for Congress to extend the tax cuts now to provide small businesses the certainty they need to start hiring new workers. The last thing America’s families and small businesses can afford is a $3.8 trillion I.O.U. from outgoing Speaker Nancy Pelosi. It is time for a new direction, and House Republicans pledge to pursue long-term solutions that rein in spending and put folks back to work.”
10.25.2010	Sharing the concerns of local residents and officials with proposed changes in postal operations, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) is seeking answers and assurances from Postmaster General John E. Potter. In an October 19th letter to Potter, Upton expressed his concern over a proposed Delivery Unit Relocation Study for the St. Joseph and Benton Harbor, Michigan Post Offices. The U.S. Postal Service (USPS) study would examine the savings that may result from consolidating St. Joseph carrier operations to the Benton Harbor facility, meaning St. Joseph-area mail carriers would pick up their mail at the Benton Harbor facility, approximately two miles away from the St. Joseph Post Office. “The St. Joseph and Benton Harbor Post Offices are a critical part of the economic and social fabric of our community, and it is imperative that both facilities remain open for business for decades to come,” said Upton. Upton is concerned that the consolidation of carrier operations may just be the first step towards the ultimate closure of one of the post offices. In his letter to the Postmaster General, Upton requested a detailed assessment of the process by which the study will be conducted and asked to be kept appraised of any findings. Upton requested Postmaster General Potter provide answers to the following questions: What are the criteria USPS is using to calculate cost savings for consolidating carrier operations between St. Joseph and Benton Harbor? How does USPS calculate the profitability for a post office, and how do the profits of the St. Joseph and Benton Harbor Post Offices compare with other post offices in the region and nationally? How would the proposed change affect the profitability of the St. Joseph Post Office? What are the proposed savings from the consolidation? Upton also echoed concerns shared by the St. Joseph City Commission and City Manager Frank Walsh that this could affect the profitability of the St. Joseph Post Office, possibly leading to its future closure or consolidation. In his letter to the Postmaster General, Upton wrote, “I would like you to confirm, regardless of the proposed study’s outcome, that both the St. Joseph and Benton Harbor Post Office facilities will remain open in the long term as they currently exist – including full retail services at both facilities, and with no change to mail delivery times, mail carriers, and left notice items.” The USPS has been an independent agency from Congress since the enactment of the Postal Reorganization Act of 1970, however, Congress still has an oversight role. The full text of Upton’s letter to Postmaster General Potter is provided below. A PDF of the letter is also attached. The Honorable John E. Potter Postmaster General U.S. Postal Service 475 L'Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260-0010 October 19, 2010 Postmaster Potter: As you know, the Post Office in St. Joseph, MI is under consideration for a Delivery Unit Relocation Study. I respect your efforts to ensure the USPS remains fiscally viable, but at the same time, believe it is equally important to maintain the high service standard that currently exists in St. Joseph and Benton Harbor. The community in St. Joseph has been very vocal about the proposed study and its implications. For your convenience, I am attaching a letter from the St. Joseph City Commission expressing their concerns regarding this issue. In an effort to ensure this process is open, fair, and in the best interest of the taxpayers, I am requesting the following information: What are the criteria USPS is using to calculate cost savings for consolidating carrier operations between St. Joseph and Benton Harbor? How does USPS calculate the profitability for a post office, and how do the profits of the St. Joseph and Benton Harbor Post Offices compare with other post offices in the region and nationally? How would the proposed change affect the profitability of the St. Joseph Post Office? What are the proposed savings from the consolidation? Further, I would like you to confirm, regardless of the proposed study’s outcome, that both the St. Joseph and Benton Harbor Post Office facilities will remain open in the long term plan as they currently exist – including full retail services at both facilities, and with no change to mail delivery times, mail carriers, and left notice items. Thank you for your attention to this very important matter. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me. Fred Upton The full text of Upton’s letter to Mayor Judd the St. Joseph City Commission is below. A PDF of the letter is also attached. Robert Judd, Mayor Michael Garey, Mayor pro tem Fran Chickering, City Commissioner Mary Goff, City Commissioner Dr. Jeffrey Richards, City Commissioner October 20, 2010 Dear Mayor Judd and St Joseph City Commissioners: Thank you for expressing your concerns over the future of the U.S. Postal Office in St. Joseph. I share your concerns and agree that a full-service post office is an absolutely critical part of the economic and social foundation of our community. As you know, the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) is considering a Delivery Unit Relocation Study for the St. Joseph and Benton Harbor areas. The proposed study will examine what, if any, savings would be realized by relocating the carrier operations, only, to the Benton Harbor facility. Because this study is neither complete nor approved, the USPS has not yet determined in detail the profitability of each post office or any cost savings that may be garnered from this proposed consolidation. Although the USPS has been an independent agency from Congress since the enactment of the Postal Reorganization Act of 1970, I have authored a letter to Post Master General John E. Potter expressing concern that moving any carrier operations may be the first step in the ultimate closing of the St. Joseph Post Office. Further, I have requested a detailed assessment of the process by which the study will be conducted and asked that he keep me appraised of any findings, and I will in turn, keep in close contact with the City Commission on this matter. I am also seeking to learn how the profits of the St. Joseph and Benton Harbor Post Offices compare with other similar operations in the region and nationally. Further, I have asked the Post Master General to confirm, regardless of the proposed study’s outcome, that both the St. Joseph and Benton Harbor Post Office facilities will remain open as they currently exist – including full retail services at both facilities, and with no change to mail delivery times, mail carriers, and left notice items. Should the USPS choose to move forward with this study, I will work to ensure it is conducted in a manner that is fully transparent and fair to all customers. I appreciate your input into this very important matter and look forward to working with the City Commission in the future. If I can be of further assistance, please do not hesitate to contact me. Fred Upton
10.22.2010	Congressman Fred Upton, a senior member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, made the following statement today in response to National Public Radio's egregious dismissal of commentator Juan Williams. Upton served as chairman of the Energy and Commerce telecommunications subcommittee from January 2001 through January 2007. "National Public Radio’s firing of Juan Williams tears down the thin veil that once shrouded this taxpayer-subsidized organization’s political bias. Williams’ dismissal is an egregious assault on free speech and individual expression, the touchstones of American journalism. "As a former journalism student, censorship of the press can not be tolerated under any circumstances. The silence of the left is stunning – if Fox was not involved, Speaker Pelosi and Henry Waxman would be in an uproar, preaching the sanctity of the First Amendment. Williams’ firing grossly abuses taxpayer dollars and demands strong congressional scrutiny. "All things considered…this is a matter of principle."
10.20.2010	U.S. Reps. Fred Upton (MI-06) and Ed Whitfield (KY-01), senior Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today called on the Inspector General of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to formally investigate the NRC Chairman’s decision to delay a vote on the Department of Energy’s legal authority to withdraw the license of the Yucca Mountain permanent nuclear waste repository in Nevada. Despite the scientific community’s seal of approval as well as nearly three decades and billions of dollars invested, the Obama administration has sought to pull the plug on the Yucca Mountain repository without offering a viable alternative. In the letter to NRC Inspector General Hubert Bell, Upton and Whitfield wrote, “The average nuclear plant generates approximately $430 million in the local community and the operation of a nuclear plant creates 400 to 700 permanent jobs. Any delay to advance nuclear power places our economy and national security at risk.” The Yucca Mountain project was designated as the nuclear waste repository by the Congress in legislation signed by the President as part of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA), as amended in 1987. In 2002, Congress passed a joint resolution reaffirming the site as the country’s nuclear waste repository. This site has been designated to hold the spent nuclear fuel from the nation’s 104 reactors that operate across 31 states, creating a centralized storage location for better national security, and will save the federal government money in the long run. The Chairman of the Commission recently instructed the NRC staff to stop the review of the license application based on his FY 2011 budget request, which has yet to be approved by Congress. One Commission member, William Ostendorff, subsequently detailed in a memo his objections to the Chairman’s decision to stop the review of the license application. “Playing political games with this issue, which has been suggested in the news, has already cost taxpayers $1 billion through lawsuits filed and that number is expected to increase to over $50 billion in the next twenty years, not to mention that the federal government has already spent $9 billion constructing the Yucca Mountain project and this would also be wasted money. At a time when we have a nearly $14 trillion debt, these actions are unwise and deserve your attention,” Upton and Whitfield wrote to the Inspector General.
10.18.2010	Congressman Fred Upton, a senior Republican on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, is demanding answers from Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius following reports that HHS has spent upwards of $3 million in advertisements promoting the health overhaul. Upton last week expressed grave concern that the advertisements are skewed toward specific demographic groups and regions of the country to influence targeted congressional campaigns, rather than inform America's seniors. In his October 15th letter to Secretary Sebelius, Upton writes, "These advertisements go above and beyond the scope of being purely informational, appearing as a desperate attempt to simply prop up endangered candidates for supporting an unpopular law during the general election season." Upton continued, "It is my belief that these advertisements violate both the letter and the spirit of this regulation. At a time when most Americans are looking for greater transparency and accountability in their government, such a breach of their trust is unconscionable." Upton is specifically seeking information from HHS on the following: 1. An exact budget outlining taxpayer expenditures on these specific advertisements; 2. A list of consultants, vendors and other outside firms used in the creation, purchase and implementation of the advertisements; 3. A copy of all e-mails and other written communication relating to the advertising campaign; and 4. An account of the specific media markets where the advertisements are being run, including a justification on why those specific markets were chosen. Upton noted that the ads could be in violation of Division D, Section 720 of Public Law 111-8, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009, which specifically states: Sec. 720. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any other Act shall be used directly or indirectly, including by private contractor, for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States not heretofor authorized by the Congress. A full copy of Upton's letter can be read here.
10.17.2010	ST. JOSEPH, MI - Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement upon learning of the death of his friend, former Kalamazoo Mayor and current State Rep. Robert Jones. Upton and Jones worked closely through the years dating back to 1992 when Kalamazoo became part of the sixth congressional district. "I am sure God greeted Bob this morning with the praise, 'Well done my good and faithful servant.' "Kalamazoo has lost a dear friend, fierce advocate and loyal servant in the passing of Bob Jones. Waging the toughest battle of his life, Bob courageously fought to the very end as we all knew he would. His spirit never wavered, his outlook remained strong despite the long odds. "Although we found ourselves on opposing sides politically - never personally - during our near two decades of working together, Bob's love for the community was undeniable. He was a good, decent respectful man, whose steadfast commitment to his Kalamazoo was first and foremost. "Our hearts go out to Bob's beloved Callie and the entire family - we thank you for sharing him with us. "Farewell Mr. Mayor, once a servant of Kalamazoo, now a servant of God." Upon learning of Jones' diagnosis, Upton connected the State Representative with a colleague in Congress who had waged a similar battle with esophageal cancer to provide some prayer and guidance.
10.05.2010	The National Federation of Independent Business, the nation’s leading small business association, has named Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) a “Guardian of Small Business” for his strong record in the 111th Congress on behalf of America’s small business owners. Upton has been an outspoken advocate in Congress to protect small businesses from an onerous tax reporting requirement that was tucked into the new health overhaul. The provision will force small businesses to file separate 1099 IRS reporting forms for every single business-to-business transaction that exceeds $600 in a given year. Upton is a strong supporter of H.R. 5141, the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act, to repeal the senseless provision to the Internal Revenue Code before it takes effect. “Small businesses are on the frontlines of our economic recovery here in Michigan and across the nation,” said Upton. “We should be helping small businesses grow and create jobs, not saddling them with crippling taxes and mandates. Small business owners and entrepreneurs are the backbone of our economy, providing millions of American jobs and leading the way for future development and innovation.” In announcing the winners of the coveted Guardian of Small Business award, NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner said, “Small business owners pay close attention to how their lawmakers vote on the issues affecting their businesses. The Guardian award is a symbol of sincere appreciation from the small business community for votes that supported their ability to own, operate and grow their businesses. In the 111th Congress, Rep. Fred Upton proved that he is a champion of small business. The Guardian of Small Business Award is a token of the deep appreciation that small business owners have for elected officials who promote and protect their right to own, operate and grow their businesses.” In addition to Upton, NFIB also honored Michigan Reps. Pete Hoekstra, Vern Ehlers, Dave Camp, Mike Rogers, Candice Miller and Thad McCotter.
09.23.2010	Under the shadow of the Washington Monument on the National Mall, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) on Tuesday accepted the 100 Best Communities for Young People award from America’s Promise Alliance and ING on behalf of Kalamazoo, Michigan. First established by America’s Promise Alliance in 2005, the award is given to towns and cities across the country that have battled the nation’s dropout crisis by forming innovative partnerships and making young people a top priority. America’s Promise Alliance Board Chair Alma Powell presented the award to Upton. Officials with America’s Promise Alliance indicated they will also make a formal presentation in Kalamazoo. “Education is vitally important for our youth, and this award is testament to the steadfast commitment that the folks of Kalamazoo have in ensuring our kids stay in school and achieve their full potential,” said Upton. “We have so much to be proud of here in Kalamazoo, and this award underscores the incredible opportunity offered by the Promise. There is nothing more important than providing our youth all the tools and resources they need to graduate high school and continue to succeed. Winning this competition gives Kalamazoo well-deserved national recognition and an opportunity to showcase to the nation the innovative work being done here locally.” “I appreciate the effort and hard work of City Commissioner Miller in bringing together community organizations that have demonstrated our commitment to the success of excellence of children in Kalamazoo, and that we have become an example for the entire nation,” said Kalamazoo Mayor Bobby Hopewell. The 100 Best Communities for Young People competition spotlights communities that find unique and effective ways to ensure their young people receive the resources necessary to stay in school and succeed. The competition is not about rewarding the communities that spend the most money, but rather communities where people have come together with determination, ingenuity and commitment to ensure their children have a chance to succeed. In the United States, nearly 1.3 million students drop out each year—one every 26 seconds. The 100 Best Communities for Young People competition recognizes the innovative partnerships that communities big and small have formed to end this crisis. The winning communities were selected by a blue-ribbon panel of judges that included some of the nation’s most well-known civic, business and nonprofit leaders. Being recognized as one of the 100 Best Communities for Young People will also give Kalamazoo access to opportunities to share ideas and collaborate with other winning communities and national organizations that are partners of America’s Promise Alliance, which range from corporate supporters to well-known not-for-profit organizations such as Big Brothers Big Sisters of America, the National PTA, and Girl Scouts. Founded in 1997 with General Colin Powell as its founding chairman, America’s Promise Alliance is the nation’s largest youth-focused Alliance, harnessing the power of more than 400 partner organizations to mobilize the nation to end the high school dropout crisis and ensure that more children have access to the Five Promises—caring adults, safe places, a healthy start, effective education, and the opportunity to help others.
09.23.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), ranking Republican of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, made the following statement at this afternoon’s subcommittee hearing on “Pipeline Safety Oversight and Legislation.” The issue is of particular importance to Upton as a rupture occurred in late July in southwest Michigan within Enbridge Inc.’s Lakehead Pipeline System, releasing over 800,000 gallons of oil into Tallmadge Creek and the Kalamazoo River. Upton’s full opening statement is provided: Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling this hearing today. Today’s hearing may be the last of this Congress. Pipeline safety is an issue that is important to nearly every community in our nation. The United States currently has over 200,000 miles of oil pipelines and 260,000 miles of natural gas pipelines, an often unseen underground labyrinth that allows our communities to function and prosper. The safety, security and integrity of this infrastructure is of the highest importance to our nation and certainly worthy of this committee’s oversight. Unfortunately, as southwest Michigan recently found out first hand, communities cannot fully appreciate the importance of pipeline safety until something goes wrong, and in our case, it was an 800,000-gallon pipeline leak. We are still waiting on answers. It is vital that we receive answers promptly from the Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration as well as Enbridge regarding the Michigan spill. We must continue to work aggressively to ensure there are no delays at the federal level. Thankfully, the emergency response was swift and decisive. Our local emergency responders and volunteers have stepped up to the plate, and I commend them on the wonderful job they continue to do. Pipelines are the arteries of our nation’s energy infrastructure. Through our hundreds of thousands of miles of pipelines, we transport the energy that fuels our economy, heats our homes, and powers our daily lives. Unfortunately, recent accidents have thrust this vital infrastructure into the headlines for the wrong reasons and perhaps highlighted the need for safety reassessments. Given the vast size of our pipeline system and the limited resources at our disposal, it is imperative that safety inspections and regulations are as efficient and productive as possible. While today’s hearing is rightly focused on oversight issues, attention should also be given to allocating these finite resources in a more cost effective and efficient manner to assure that we maximize our safety efforts. Legislation must be sensible and actually improve safety, rather than impose arbitrary mandates that increase costs and only create the appearance of safety. As we are days away from adjournment, I hope an issue as important as PHMSA reauthorization goes through regular and proper order, rather than being jammed through during a lame duck session. This committee does have a vital role to play in the legislative process, and this issue is certainly worthy of more than one hearing. Just ask the folks in southwest Michigan – they will tell you to get the job done right to protect our communities. Again, pipeline safety is an important bipartisan issue, and I look forward to hearing from our witnesses today on these issues. I yield back the balance of my time.
09.23.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), a senior member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, today released the following statement after House Republicans presented A Pledge to America—a new governing agenda focused on addressing the American people’s top priorities. The Pledge is the culmination of a months-long engagement with the American people in which House Republicans sought their ideas and priorities for Congress. The agenda offers concrete solutions that can be implemented immediately to tackle the issues that are most important to the nation, including job creation, spending restraint, national security, health care, and reform to Congress itself. The full agenda, A Pledge to America, can be viewed here. “Actions speak louder than words and it is clear that the administration and Democrat Congress are not listening to the American people. There has been a severe disconnect between those in power in Washington and families across the country. “Folks deserve better. America deserves a Congress that listens and respects the opinions and priorities of its citizens. Through this pledge we are presenting a set of fresh, bold solutions, renewing a commitment to our founding principles, and offering a new way of doing business in Washington. “Jobs must be priority number one. With so many folks in Michigan unemployed and desperate for a job, we offer a plan to end the economic uncertainty for American small businesses and make America more competitive. As massive debt threatens the livelihoods of our kids and grandkids, we have a credible plan to immediately cut spending and rein in the budget deficit, putting Michigan and the nation back on track. “Folks in Michigan and across the nation spoke out, and we heard them loud and clear. This pledge is an important first step in fulfilling our commitment to America’s families.” NOTE: The preamble to A Pledge to America reaffirms Republicans’ commitment to principles of smaller, more accountable government; economic freedom; lower taxes; fiscal responsibility; protecting life, American values, and the Constitution; and providing for a strong national defense. This new governing agenda is comprised of five specific policy plans that could be implemented right now if the Administration and Democratic Leaders would allow it: Creating Jobs - A Pledge to America reflects Americans’ demand for immediate action on policies that will end uncertainty for small businesses and help our economy get back to creating jobs. This new governing agenda contains a plan to create jobs, end economic uncertainty, and make America competitive – including stopping all tax hikes, reining in red tape, and repealing the health overhaul’s “1099 mandate.” Cutting Spending - A Pledge to America embodies Americans’ rejection of the now-thoroughly discredited notion that we can simply tax, spend, and borrow our way to prosperity. This new governing agenda contains a plan to cut spending and reduce the size of government – including cutting government spending to pre-‘stimulus’, pre-bailout levels, imposing a hard cap on future discretionary spending, and ending TARP once and for all. Reforming Congress - A Pledge to America acknowledges that we cannot get our arms around the issues of the day when we have a government that refuses to listen to the people and ignores their priorities. This new governing agenda contains a plan to reform Congress and restore trust – including implementing “read the bill” reform, allowing for more open and fair debate, and requiring that every bill contain a citation of Constitutional authority. Repealing and Replacing the Health Care Overhaul - A Pledge to America recognizes that the American people continue to squarely oppose the government takeover of health care, with its higher costs, higher taxes, job-killing mandates, and Medicare cuts to pay for a massive new entitlement. This new governing agenda contains a plan to repeal and replace the job-killing health care law with common-sense reforms focused on lowering costs and protecting American jobs. A Strong National Defense - A Pledge to America reinforces Congress’s responsibility to help provide for a strong national defense and fashion a coherent strategy to confront and defeat the terrorist threat. This new governing agenda contains a plan to keep our nation secure at home and abroad – including passing clean troop funding bills, keeping terrorists off American soil, and fully funding missile defense.
09.23.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) is urging folks in southwest Michigan to keep our courageous servicemen and women in mind this Friday, September 24th, as the National Guard in Kalamazoo kicks off a new and used CD and DVD collection drive for local troops serving overseas. Additionally, five collection boxes will be available throughout the region until October 15th. The National Guard will collect all the donations and ship them to Kalamazoo, Lansing and Grand Rapids area units currently serving in Iraq and Afghanistan in time for the holidays. “Something as simple as a DVD or a CD can make quite a difference in the daily life of one of our troops, providing a simple yet powerful reminder that their community is grateful for their service and we all wish them a safe return home,” said Upton. “The Kalamazoo National Guard’s collection drive is an easy way for anyone to personally thank our troops who are currently on the frontlines. I encourage local residents to comb through their CD and DVD libraries and help provide a brief escape to those brave men and women who are making tremendous sacrifices for our nation.” Event kickoff details: • Friday, September 24th, from 4:00 to 7:00pm at Texas Corral, 5519 West Main Street, Kalamazoo Collection boxes for new and used CDs and DVDs will be at five locations across the Kalamazoo region through October 15th: • Family Video, 3744 Gull Road • Metro Toyota, 5850 Stadium Drive • Omni Community Credit Union, 6622 West Main Street • Oshtemo Township Hall, 7275 West Main Street • Texas Corral, 5519 West Main Street
09.11.2010	It is hard to believe that it has been nine years since the horrific attacks against our nation on the morning of September 11th, 2001. I remember that crisp, clear blue sky morning like it was yesterday. Within minutes of the World Trade Center towers being struck, the nation’s capital came under attack, and the air was soon heavy with the scent of burning embers from the Pentagon. The devastating attack on our country made a permanent imprint on all Americans. While some lost family members and friends, all of us felt the terrible pain of promising lives senselessly destroyed, of hopes and dreams snuffed out and of our nation’s vulnerability to the violence of fanaticism. We will never forget the images of September 11th. The majestic World Trade Center’s twin towers, which once stood proud and tall, billowing smoke high above the Manhattan skyline and soon gone in an instant. The Pentagon, the symbol of our military strength, smoldering on the outskirts of Washington, D.C. We will never forget the courage of the passengers of Flight 93 who made the ultimate sacrifice to save countless others. And the bravery of public safety officers who began their morning like any other, only to never return home to their loved ones. The world is a different place since the events of that fateful morning. But nine years later, we continue to face the events of that morning with resolve. We will never forget what took place September 11th, 2001, for we have been forever changed by it.
09.08.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today echoed Republican Leader John Boehner’s call to cut government spending to 2008 levels and freeze current tax rates for the next two years – preventing the devastating $3.8 trillion tax hike that is set to kick-in on January 1, 2011. Upton supports passing a bill that cuts non-security related government spending for the next year back to FY 2008 levels – exceptions should be made for programs affecting seniors, veterans, and national security. “The time for action is now,” said Upton. “Since January 2009, the debt has grown nearly $4.9 billion a day, and yet the spending bonanza continues and unemployment continues to soar. The cost of doing nothing is a $3.8 trillion I.O.U. for working families and small businesses at a time when we are desperate for new jobs. When Congress reconvenes next week, we will have a unique opportunity to stand together for the countless families struggling to make ends meet. More spending is not the answer – more taxes on small businesses and working families are not the answer. Let’s put aside the shortsighted gimmicks geared towards November and pursue long term solutions that will rein in spending and put folks back to work. After two years of unbridled spending and near double-digit unemployment, slashing spending coupled with a freeze on current tax rates is a positive step in a new direction.” Earlier this week, former Obama administration budget director Peter Orszag endorsed a two-year freeze on all tax rates, writing in Monday’s New York Times that “…no one wants to make an already stagnating jobs market worse over the next year or two, which is exactly what would happen if the cuts expire as planned.” Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on Wednesday stated that rising debt poses a national security threat.
07.29.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), top Republican on the House Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, today introduced legislation to create a new framework for spent nuclear fuel management that is capable of withstanding national political changes over the long life of the program. As the United States seeks to meet its growing energy demands through an expansion of nuclear energy, Upton’s U.S. Nuclear Fuel Management Corporation Establishment Act of 2010 (H.R. 5979) establishes a framework for addressing the spent nuclear fuel issue that has been deadlocked for decades at a tremendous cost to American consumers and the nation’s energy security. Specifically, Upton’s bill seeks to: (1) implement an accountable and sustainable governance structure for the short- and long-term management of spent nuclear fuel; (2) enable operation of a technology-neutral fuel management enterprise with appropriate consideration of safety, nuclear proliferation, environmental, and economic factors; and (3) ensure that the fees paid into the Nuclear Waste Fund are applied for their intended purpose. To date, $33 billion has been collected into the nuclear waste fund and $10 billion has been spent on Yucca Mountain waste repository. Now, because of politically based decisions this spending has gone for naught. “We are on the verge of a nuclear renaissance that will create millions of new high-paying jobs. According to data from Oxford Economics, building 100 new nuclear reactors and an appropriate number of enrichment and reprocessing plants over the next 20 years would create over one million new jobs. Without the proper spent fuel management that includes, recycling and storage, we will never reach our goals. This legislation will enable the US to create jobs and strengthen our domestic energy security in a clean and safe way.” The legislation achieves its goals by establishing a quasi-government entity, called FedCorp, to more effectively implement the spent nuclear fuel program. The FedCorp will assume the responsibilities of the Department of Energy, with full authority consistent with government policy for managing spent nuclear fuel. The FedCorp will take liability for spent nuclear fuel contracts no later than 10 years after the license termination date of the reactor to which the contracts apply. Further, this entity will operate on a self-sustaining basis without the need for annual federal appropriations by having direct access to the nuclear waste fund—no new taxpayer funds are needed. "We applaud Congressman Upton for introducing this bill,” said Alex Flint, Senior Vice President of governmental affairs at the Nuclear Energy Institute. “This legislation is a good start toward reforming the used fuel management program. We look forward to working with Congress to enact legislation that will receive strong support across party lines. The nuclear industry has supported the concept of creating a federal corporation to manage a government storage program for used nuclear fuel. The nuclear industry believes that an effective used fuel management program must have stable management and continuity of funding that is not subject to the constant turnover that comes from changes in political administrations.” Continued uncertainty over the disposal of spent nuclear fuel will only cost taxpayers more in the long run. The federal government continues to accrue waste liabilities due to its Nuclear Waste Policy Act commitments. Even if the federal government begins accepting waste by 2020 - which is unlikely - estimates for the government’s potential liability range from $12 billion to $50 billion and will continue to grow as the date slips
07.29.2010	Members of the Michigan Congressional delegation want answers from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) regarding the upcoming trial of terrorism suspect Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab. He is the Nigerian man accused of trying to ignite a bomb onboard a flight bound for Detroit last Christmas. Concerned about both the security preparations and the cost of the Abdulmutallab trial, the Members sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano this week. The Members made the following comments about the Department’s handling of this matter so far: Senator Carl Levin (D): “Michigan is ready to do its part in contributing to our national security. Our letter is intended to ensure that Michigan gets the support it needs to carry out its responsibilities with respect to this trial, and to ensure that DHS has a plan in place to provide that support.” Senator Debbie Stabenow (D): "This trial has both national and global implications, and the Department of Homeland Security should provide the resources necessary to protect the people of Detroit and Southeast Michigan." Congressman Pete Hoekstra (R-MI02): “Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab is a terrorist who attempted to blow up a flight as it landed in Detroit, and he should be treated as such. He is not a civilian, he is an enemy combatant, and he should not be tried in a civilian court. However, if the Obama administration moves forward with a trial in Detroit, the federal government must provide the security and pay the costs necessary to ensure that Michigan residents are protected against threats and risks that may result from it.” Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI06) “There is no question that the feds should handle a trial of this magnitude. Every resource must be made available in trying Abdulmutallab for his brazen act of terrorism against our nation. A trial in Michigan will put a tremendous burden on our resources, not to mention put a bullseye squarely on our backs for other possible attacks, creating a security nightmare. The federal government is best equipped with the resources and manpower to bring this terrorist to justice.” Congressman Mike Rogers (R-MI08): “This is a foreign terrorist trained in a foreign land to kill hundreds of Americans. Michiganders know he should not be treated as a common criminal, but instead as an enemy combatant tried in a military tribunal. They surely know they shouldn’t get stuck paying the bill for the security of holding a civilian trial of a terrorist in our community among our families.” Congressman Gary Peters (D-MI09): "We want to know there is a solid plan in place for security and who is going to pay for it. That's not too much to ask. The Administration has sought to ensure that New York City would receive federal funding if a terror trial were held there, and there is no reason Detroit should not be offered the same." Congresswoman Candice Miller (R-MI10): “Since this failed terror attack, and subsequent flawed decision to try Abdulmutallab in Detroit, the people of Michigan have been asked to bear an undue burden for trying this terrorist in our court system in Michigan. The cost associated with this trial is the responsibility of the federal government, and I join with my colleagues from Michigan to ensure that our state does not pay further for being the target of this terrorist act.” Congressman Sander M. Levin (D-MI12): “The people of Michigan deserve assurance that full security will be in place for the trial of the suspect in the attempted bombing of Northwest Flight 253, and a commitment from the federal government to bear the full cost of providing this security.” Congresswoman Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick (D-MI13)“As Michigan’s sole member in Congress who has served on the House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee, I understand and appreciate the importance of our nation’s security and how it should be financed. I have long fought and advocated for more resources for our neglected northern border and its security. It is patently unfair for the taxpaying citizens of southeastern Michigan, who already face record unemployment, home foreclosures, and business losses, with trial costs that no other jurisdiction would have to bear. I thank Congresswoman Miller for her hard work on this matter, and I remain confident of an expeditious response and solution to our most reasonable inquiries." Congressman John Conyers (D-MI14): “Given Michigan’s current economic climate, it is critical that we ensure that sufficient federal resources are in place to bear the full responsibility for security costs for a federal trial of Mr. Abdulmutallab. Bringing suspected terrorists to justice in federal court is entirely appropriate, but it should be the federal government that pays the costs. I look forward to seeing the outlined Department of Homeland Security plan to make sure that our state and local governments’ resources are not further strained.” Congressman John D. Dingell (D-MI15): “I first want to commend Congresswoman Miller for her leadership on this issue. I believe this incident has caused great anxiety and unease for many in Southeast Michigan. I do not want to see that tension exacerbated. We should be able to have confidence that DHS is prepared to protect our people and handle the expense of the security we need. Moreover, if DHS plans to pick up the tab for terrorism trials in New York City, it should do so for Detroit, Michigan. I expect quick and prompt answers from the Secretary that will satisfy these concerns of mine and of the delegation.” Below is a copy of the letter: The Honorable Janet Napolitano Secretary Department of Homeland Security 3801 Nebraska Ave, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20393 Dear Secretary Napolitano, We are writing to ensure that the Department of Homeland Security has a plan to coordinate with state and local government in Michigan so that all necessary security is provided in the event of a trial of suspected Northwest Airlines Flight 253 attempted bomber, Mr. Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab. A recent article in the Detroit News has shed new light on the question of who will pay for security for the trial, and Representative Candice Miller (R-MI) sent a similar letter several months ago on this matter. The response received by Mrs. Miller was insufficient, so we write today as a delegation to ask for a more concrete and definitive answer. The safety of the citizens in Southeast Michigan is paramount and the Federal Government needs to be completely clear that if Mr. Abdulmutallab is tried at the Theodore Levin Courthouse in Detroit, the Federal Government has a plan to ensure security at the Courthouse and surrounding areas, and, further, that the Federal Government will bear the full cost of providing this security. We know you agree that Michigan residents’ safety and security are as important as that of citizens of New York, where other trails for suspected terrorists are planned. If the Federal Government pays for security-related matters for the New York trials, it must be prepared to do the same in Detroit. In your Department’s June 2, 2010 response to Representative Miller, you state that Detroit would be eligible for funds in the President’s request of $200 million for the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) to provide security for “terror-related trials.” As you may know, the Subcommittee on Homeland Security Appropriations did not include this amount in the Homeland Security Appropriations Act for fiscal year (FY) 2011. However, Congress appropriated $887 million for the UASI program in FY 2010 and $838 million for UASI in FY 2009. In addition, given that the Theodore Levin Courthouse is located just across the border from Canada, other DHS programs should also be considered as funding sources for security before and during the trials. We would like to ask you to respond to the following questions with regard to the civilian trial of Mr. Abdulmutallab: 1. Does the Department of Homeland Security consider the Federal Government responsible for the security of the citizens of Detroit and greater Southeast Michigan during the trial of Mr. Abdulmutallab? 2. How does the Department of Homeland Security intend to carry out this responsibility? We hope that you will provide a thorough response to these questions no later than August 28, 2010. Thank you for your consideration of this important matter. Sincerely, Carl Levin, U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow, U.S. Senator John D. Dingell, Member of Congress Fred Upton, Member of Congress Candice Miller, Member of Congress Bart Stupak, Member of Congress Vern Ehlers, Member of Congress Sander Levin, Member of Congress Thaddeus McCotter, Member of Congress Dale Kildee, Member of Congress John Conyers, Member of Congress Mike Rogers, Member of Congress Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick, Member of Congress Gary Peters, Member of Congress Mark Schauer, Member of Congress Dave Camp, Member of Congress Pete Hoekstra, Member of Congress
07.28.2010	Reps. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, and Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Ranking Member of the subcommittee, are seeking answers from Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and the Enbridge Chairman of the Board, Martha O. Hesse on pipeline safety. The joint effort comes in the wake of this week’s rupture within Enbridge Inc.’s Lakehead Pipeline System which has released over 20,000 barrels of oil into Tallmadge Creek and the Kalamazoo River in Michigan. “As a leader of the subcommittee that oversees the pipeline safety, rest assured that we will get to the bottom of this disaster,” said Upton. “It is vital that we receive answers promptly from the Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration as well as Enbridge Inc. regarding the Lakehead spill. We must continue to work aggressively to ensure there are no delays at the federal level and that the emergency response in our community is swift and decisive. Every resource must be made available to prevent the spread of oil and to protect local families. Our local emergency responders and volunteers have stepped up to plate, and I commend them on the fantastic work they continue to do.” Upton remains constantly engaged in the ongoing cleanup effort and pledges to hold an oversight hearing to monitor cleanup efforts by the EPA and health hazards posed by the oil spill. The following is the text of the letter that was sent to Transportation Secretary LaHood: Dear Mr. Secretary: Pursuant to Rules X and XI of the House of Representatives, and its ongoing oversight and legislative responsibilities regarding pipeline safety, the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment is writing with regard to the recent rupture in the Lakehead Pipeline System, which has reportedly released at least 20,000 barrels of oil into Tallmadge Creek and the Kalamazoo River in Michigan. This pipeline is owned by Calgary, Alberta-based Enbridge Inc.’s affiliate Enbridge Energy Partners LP of Houston. The Department of Transportation, through the Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration, has responsibility for regulating the safety of oil pipelines. Accordingly, the Subcommittee requests the following information about the Lakehead Pipeline Spill: 1. What caused the rupture in the Lakehead Pipeline? 2. What leak detection systems were in place for the Lakehead Pipeline? Did those systems function properly and was the leak reported promptly to federal and state officials? 3. How much oil has been released into the environment as a result of the rupture in the Lakehead pipeline? 4. What actions have been undertaken by Enbridge, and by federal and state authorities, to clean up the areas affected by the rupture in the Lakehead Pipeline? 5. What is your assessment of the public health and environmental impact of the Lakehead Pipeline spill, including impacts on human health and safety, air quality (particularly related to the presence of volatile organic compounds), natural resources, wildlife, and ground and surface water quality? Has any of the oil found its way into sources of drinking water? 6. In the last 5 years, how frequently has the Lakehead Pipeline been inspected and maintained by Enbridge Energy? Did any of those inspections show evidence of corrosion or maintenance issues that may have contributed to the rupture in the pipeline? 7. In the last 5 years, how frequently has the Lakehead Pipeline system been inspected by the Department of Transportation? Did any of those inspections show evidence of corrosion or maintenance issues that may have contributed to the rupture in the pipeline? 8. In the last 5 years, how many times has the Lakehead Pipeline leaked oil? For each such instance, please provide the date, location, duration, total volume of oil released and the cause of the leak. 9. Who bears responsibility for cleanup costs and any damage or harm done to the environment or to public health and safety as a result of the spill? The following is the text of the letter that was sent to Enbridge Inc. Chairman Hesse: Dear Ms. Hesse: Pursuant to Rules X and XI of the House of Representatives, and its ongoing oversight and legislative responsibilities regarding pipeline safety, the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment is writing with regard to the recent rupture in the Lakehead Pipeline System, which has reportedly released at least 20,000 barrels of oil into Tallmadge Creek and the Kalamazoo River in Michigan. As you know, this pipeline is owned by Calgary, Alberta-based Enbridge Inc.’s affiliate Enbridge Energy Partners LP of Houston. Accordingly, the Subcommittee requests that you provide the following information about the spill at Enbridge’s Lakehead Pipeline: 1. What caused the rupture in the Lakehead Pipeline? 2. What leak detection systems were in place for the Lakehead Pipeline? Did those systems function properly and was the leak reported promptly to federal and state officials? 3. How much oil has been released into the environment as a result of the rupture in the Lakehead pipeline? 4. What actions have been undertaken by Enbridge o clean up the areas affected by the rupture in the Lakehead Pipeline? 5. What is your assessment of the public health and environmental impact of the Lakehead Pipeline spill, including impacts on human health and safety, air quality (particularly related to the presence of volatile organic compounds), natural resources, wildlife, and ground and surface water quality? Has any of the oil found its way into sources of drinking water? 6. In the last 5 years, how frequently has the Lakehead Pipeline been inspected and maintained by Enbridge Energy? Did any of those inspections show evidence of corrosion or maintenance issues that may have contributed to the rupture in the pipeline? 7. In the last 5 years, how frequently has the Lakehead Pipeline system been inspected by the Department of Transportation? Did any of those inspections show evidence of corrosion or maintenance issues that may have contributed to the rupture in the pipeline? 8. In the last 5 years, how many times has the Lakehead Pipeline leaked oil? For each such instance, please provide the date, location, duration, total volume of oil released and the cause of the leak. Thank your for your assistance and cooperation in responding to the Subcommittee’s inquiry. Should you have any questions about this request, please have your staff contact Dr. Michal Freedhoff of the Subcommittee Staff at 202-225-2836 or Mr. Michael Beckerman of the Subcommittee’s Minority Staff at 202-225-3761.
07.28.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) is advising area residents with concerns, reports of damage, questions, and recommendations related to the Kalamazoo River oil spill and cleanup effort to contact the Enbridge toll-free hotline at 1-800-306-6837. Emergencies should still be referred to the appropriate emergency response entity. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has set up a incident response website at http://www.epa.gov/enbridgespill, which will be available by this evening. Enbridge has also set up its own response website at http://response.enbridgeus.com. Upton, who is a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, remains constantly engaged in the ongoing cleanup effort and pledges to hold an oversight hearing to monitor cleanup efforts by the EPA and health hazards posed by the oil spill.
07.27.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, pledges to remain in constant communication with the Environmental Protection Agency and hold an oversight hearing to monitor cleanup efforts by the EPA and health hazards posed by the oil spill. Upton made the following statement today in response to nearly a million gallons of oil that spilled into a Marshall-area creek that has now reached the Kalamazoo River into Kalamazoo County. Upon learning of the pipeline leak, Upton contacted Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm, Doug Ballotti, Region 5 Deputy Director of the Environmental Protection Agency, Captain Fred Midgette, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Coast Guard 9th District Command, Cynthia Quarterman, Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration at the U.S. Department of Transportation, as well as state, county, and local officials on the ground concerning the coordinated response to the spill. “Each and every one of us is all too familiar with the devastation wrought by the BP gulf disaster, and now we have a nightmare here in our own backyard. The mistakes and missteps that sabotaged the response and clean-up in the gulf cannot happen here in southwest Michigan. “This is a critical matter of the public health. Without delay, we must stop and contain the oil before it reaches Lake Michigan. We must clean up the Kalamazoo River, and work to protect area residents and wildlife from long-term contamination. We cannot allow this million gallon oil spill to infiltrate our fragile Great Lakes ecosystem. “I have been in contact with local authorities and federal authorities all day long to guarantee those in charge of the clean up have access to appropriate federal and state resources necessary. It is also vital that the company responsible for the spill bear the costs of the cleanup and compensate those who have suffered damages related to the spill. "I will continue to work aggressively to ensure there are no delays at the federal level and that the emergency response in our community is swift and decisive. The time to contain the oil and protect local families is now.” Upton was a member of the conference committee for the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, which called for the creation of a Great Lakes contingency plan to respond to such a disaster. The U.S. Coast Guard is responsible for the location and staging of oil response teams throughout the Great Lakes and assured Upton they stand ready to assist.
07.08.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today joined representatives from the Kalamazoo Chamber of Commerce and Lake Michigan Mailers to highlight a burdensome tax provision that was tucked into the health care overhaul that was recently signed into law. The new health care law threatens small businesses with a barrage of costs and unforeseen mandates, hindering future growth and recovery. “Small businesses are on the frontlines of our economic recovery,” said Upton. “The new requirements under the recently passed health care law threaten the livelihood of business owners in southwest Michigan and across the nation. As a consequence of this seemingly minor provision, nearly all businesses will be spending more time filing additional IRS paperwork than carrying out their daily business practices. Where are our priorities? We should be helping small businesses grow and create jobs, not saddling them with crippling taxes and mandates.” The provision, found on page 737 of the over 2,000-page bill, will force small businesses to file separate 1099 IRS reporting forms for every single business-to-business transaction that exceeds $600 in a given year. Under current law, businesses are required to report services provided by non-corporate entities. This provision of the health care bill greatly expands that requirement by extending it to all corporations that are not tax-exempt. Compliance means such basic day-to-day business expenses as telecommunication services, utility repairs, and office supplies will now be subject to IRS disclosure. Not only does this provision directly put an onerous tax reporting burden on small business, it also has the added impact of changing the way companies conduct their business with outside vendors. Faced with the prospect of a mountain of IRS forms, many companies will find it more convenient to turn to large global suppliers rather than negotiate with a number of smaller, local companies. Upton is cosponsor of legislation, the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act (H.R. 5141), to repeal this provision to the Internal Revenue Code before it takes effect in 2012. Repealing the provision is a top priority of the Small Business Association of Michigan. Upton is also the author of legislation (H.R. 5570) to prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from hiring the thousands of new employees necessary to implement the health care bill. This proposal would save American taxpayers $5-$10 billion over the next ten years. Lake Michigan Mailers’ position on this issue may seem to some to be counterintuitive as this law will certainly increase the volume of Form 1099s the company prints and mails for its customers. However, the company feels strongly that this law places unnecessary costs and burdens on its customers and all small businesses. “Congress is again using its power to enact legislation without regard to the day-to-day impact the legislation will have on American businesses,” said Robert Rhoa, co-founder and CEO of Lake Michigan Mailers. “While Lake Michigan Mailers and the U.S. Postal Service will clearly realize greater sales under this new requirement, it is simply a bad law and needs to be repealed. It will serve only to add to the costs of business operations and bring additional complexity to an already complicated tax system. We support Congressman Upton’s co-sponsorship of H.R. 5141 and call on all Members of Congress to add their names to the more than 90 co-sponsors of this bill.”
07.03.2010	As Americans gather to celebrate our nation’s Independence on Sunday, we are reminded that despite the numerous challenges our country has faced, our freedom and liberty remains the bedrock upon which our forefathers built our nation some 234 years ago. Most of us will celebrate the holiday surrounded by family and loved ones. Whether the day is celebrated by attending parades, or simply spending time in the backyard, the day will culminate with the rockets red glare of fireworks illuminating the sky of our great nation, serving as a reminder that we are all united as one because we are Americans. As we celebrate this July 4th, we must keep in mind that we are commemorating the freedom and liberty that our forefathers fought for and earned over two centuries ago. Today, our brave servicemen and women are continuing to protect that freedom and liberty across the globe. We must never forget that freedom and liberty comes at a price and not take for granted the sacrifice these men, women, and their families are making for our nation. We are so proud of our service members who are stationed this holiday in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other bases throughout the world. We wish they were safely home with us this weekend, but they are answering a higher call. Our thoughts and prayers are with these men and women, and their families, and we are grateful for their service. It is because of the brave individuals who fight to protect our country that we are the land of the free. Happy birthday, America. God bless.
07.01.2010	Almost a year to the day after the U.S. House narrowly adopted a costly cap-and-tax scheme, the American Council for Capital Formation (ACCF) released a study today that predicts Michigan could face declines in gross state product, employment, industrial output, state budget revenues and household income if federal climate change legislation is enacted. Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), top Republican of the House Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, led the fight in the U.S. House against the cap-and-tax legislation and continues working to protect Michigan jobs as the Kerry-Lieberman bill is debated in the Senate. “The ACCF study reinforces what many others have already predicted - that cap-and-tax legislation will result in skyrocketing energy bills and massive job losses,” said Upton. “Kerry-Lieberman puts a bullseye squarely on the backs of Michigan’s working families who are already struggling to keep the lights on. In Michigan where nearly one out of every five folks is out of work, jobs must be our top priority, not a national energy tax.” The ACCF looked at the potential economic impact of various climate change bills that would impose a cap-and-trade system requiring sharp reductions in greenhouse gases and mandate high levels of energy efficiency and renewable energy. The U.S. House of Representatives passed a 1500-page climate change bill (Waxman/Markey, H.R. 2454) by a margin of seven votes in June 2009. Led by Senators John Kerry and Barbara Boxer, the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee passed a similar bill in November 2009, S.1733, the Kerry-Boxer bill, which has tighter near-term emission reduction targets than the Waxman-Markey bill. In May 2010, Senators John Kerry and Joe Lieberman introduced the American Power Act where the emission reduction targets are virtually the same as those in H.R. 2454. “Michigan and manufacturing have been vital to American’s economic prosperity for decades,” said ACCF Senior Vice President and Chief Economist Margo Thorning. “Unfortunately, the state’s already distressed economy could slow even further if Congress requires these aggressive emission reduction targets in greenhouse gases. Multiple economic analyses show that these federal climate bills would increase the price of electricity, gasoline and natural gas. In consequence, economic productivity, employment and household income would decline.” Key findings of the ACCF study include: If a cap-and-trade climate change bill similar to the Waxman-Markey bill (H.R. 2454), the Kerry-Boxer bill (S.1733) or the American Power Act is enacted, Michigan is likely to experience a decrease in manufacturing output. Overall manufacturing output declines by 5.4 percent in the low-cost case and by 6 percent in the high-cost case in 2030 compared to the baseline forecast. Another important segment of Michigan’s manufacturing industry, transportation manufacturing, falls considerably, declining by up to 9 percent in 2030. Gross state product (GSP) declines by $12 to $16.5 billion in 2030. Such reductions in GSP will dramatically reduce state budget receipts. Michigan will see a reduction in job growth; there will be 66,700 to 90,800 fewer jobs in 2030. Disposable income will fall by an average of $883 to $1,435 in 2030. Low-income families and the elderly will spend a higher proportion of their income on energy. The American Council for Capital Formation (www.accf.org), founded in 1973, is a nonprofit, nonpartisan economic policy organization dedicated to the advocacy of tax, energy, environmental and regulatory policies that encourage saving and investment. View the full study “The Michigan Economy: How Will Climate Change Legislation Impact Economic and Job Growth?
06.30.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), ranking Republican of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, made the following statement at this morning’s subcommittee hearing on “Legislation to Respond to the BP Oil Spill and to Prevent Future Oil Well Blowouts.” Upton’s full opening statement is provided: Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling this hearing today. The BP spill is an environmental and economic disaster on a scale we have never seen before. We need to ensure to the best of our ability that such a disaster cannot and does not happen again. Our domestic energy resources power our economy and keep America working. The oil industry is under the microscope now. They should be. We need to learn from this accident, make any needed changes, and move forward. Clearly, in light of what happened on the Deepwater Horizon rig, new safety and oversight regulations are needed. But the question still remains – what actions are necessary to improve safety without blocking our much needed domestic reserves? I look forward to working on bipartisan legislation that ensures the safety and effectiveness of offshore drilling. A joint investigation into the causes of the Deepwater Horizon blowout, explosion, and spill are currently being conducted by the Coast Guard and MMS. In addition, President Obama announced a Presidential commission that will investigate “the relevant facts and circumstances concerning the root causes of the Deepwater Horizon explosion, fire and oil spill and develop options to guard against, and mitigate the impact of, any oil spills associated with offshore drilling in the future.” I agree we need to investigate, get to the bottom of what really happened and develop new standards based on the lessons learned. However, the Coast Guard investigation is not complete. And the President’s commission has not yet met. I am all for improving the safety of offshore drilling, but we should wait for the investigations to be concluded before we prematurely pass legislation that may not improve safety, and could possibly make matters worse. We should call a hearing when they have completed the investigation to hear what they have discovered. Legislating deepwater drilling safety must be a bipartisan process and must be developed using sound science and actual evidence and conclusions from ongoing investigations. In addition to my practical concerns about legislating before the Presidential commission has even met, there are a few troubling provisions in the draft legislation we are looking at today, that I fear will serve as a de facto drilling ban for both offshore and onshore wells - oil and natural gas. Legislation that prevents us from safely developing our domestic oil and natural gas resources would be catastrophic to our economy – destroying potentially tens of thousands of jobs overnight – and would severely weaken our national security as we import more and more oil and gas from abroad. Specifically, this legislation defines a “high risk well” so broadly, that it covers nearly every offshore and onshore oil and natural gas well. Clearly we should be using a scientific definition that relies on sound engineering principles. Not every well is “high risk.” Additionally, the legislation requires a standard of certification equal to a 100 percent standard. Nothing in our lives up to a 100 percent certainty standard. Risks are everywhere, from crossing the street, to getting into a car, flying on a plane, riding in an elevator, even installing a windmill off the shore of Nantucket has risks. If we are going to require an unattainable level of certification before we allow otherwise safe drilling to occur, let us at least be honest with the American people and call this legislation what it really is – a ban on American made energy. I have other concerns with the content of this draft, but I will end here so we can hear from our witnesses today and perhaps learn more about how this legislation would improve or hamper safety. When it comes to producing American made energy, we have a lot at stake. With our struggling economy and double digit unemployment, we can not afford knee-jerk policies that will lock-up domestic resources and send energy prices through the roof. I yield back.
06.30.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) has joined 13 of his Michigan colleagues in support of the bipartisan Permanent Prevention of Asian Carp Act, H.R. 5625, which was introduced in the U.S. House yesterday and the U.S. Senate today. The legislation would require the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to conduct and expedite a study detailing engineering options to determine the best way to permanently separate the Mississippi River Basin from Lake Michigan and prevent Asian carp and other invasive species from entering the Great Lakes. On Tuesday, Upton also joined Great Lakes colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama urging immediate action to prevent the Asian carp from infiltrating the Great Lakes. “Not only do we need to immediately close the Chicago locks to keep the Asian carp out of Lake Michigan, we are also in desperate need of a permanent solution,” said Upton. “The alarm bells have been ringing for quite some time and yet we are still awaiting action from the administration. The discovery of a live carp just miles from Lake Michigan should serve as a warning that time’s up and we need to act now. Let’s close the locks now and start working towards a permanent solution. Billions of dollars and 800,000 jobs supported by the Great Lakes fishing industry hang in the balance.” The study must begin within 30 days of the bill’s enactment, and the Army Corps must send a progress report to Congress and the President within 6 months and again in 12 months. The full study must be completed and given to Congress and the President 18 months after the bill is enacted. It will be monitored by the Council on Environmental Quality to ensure its thorough and timely completion. The study will also address flooding threats, Chicago wastewater, water safety operations, and barge and recreational vessel traffic alternatives. It will examine other modes of transportation for the shipping industry and influence new engineering designs to move canal traffic from one body of water to the other without transferring invasive species. In addition to Upton, Michigan Reps. John Dingell, Vern Ehlers, Pete Hoekstra, Dale Kildee, Carolyn Kilpatrick, Sandy Levin, Thaddeus McCotter, Candice Miller, Gary Peters, Mike Rogers, Mark Schauer, Bart Stupak have all signed onto Rep. Dave Camp’s legislation. U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) introduced similar legislation in the Senate. Upton is also a cosponsor of the CARP ACT, H.R. 4472, which will immediately close the locks in the Chicago Area Waterway System, which connect Lake Michigan to the Mississippi River. The measure has been stalled in the subcommittee of jurisdiction.
06.25.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), a member of the congressional Great Lakes Task Force, today reinforced his calls to close the Chicago locks to prevent Asian carp from infiltrating the Great Lakes Watershed. Upton is a cosponsor of the CARP ACT, H.R. 4472, which will immediately close the locks in the Chicago Area Waterway System, which connect Lake Michigan to the Mississippi River. The measure, introduced by Michigan Rep. Dave Camp (R-Traverse City) has been stalled in the subcommittee with jurisdiction. Upton is now working with Rep. Camp and other Michigan colleagues on an alternative solution to close off routes into Lake Michigan. “The nightmare scenario is unfolding before our eyes with the discovery of a live, 20 pound carp six miles from Lake Michigan and yet the Chicago shipping locks remain open,” said Upton. “Our treasured Lake Michigan and the Great Lakes watershed hang in the balance as well as its $7.5 billion fishing industry and the 800,000 jobs it supports. We have reached a critical mass for the President to implement his so-called zero tolerance policy – the first step would be closing the locks and the CARP ACT will do just that.” Legislation is necessary as the U.S. Supreme Court last month refused to halt the spread of Asian carp into the Great Lakes by denying to grant Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox’s request for an injunction to immediately close the Chicago-area locks Asian carp can grow to 100 pounds, eating up to 40 percent of their body weight each day. Due to their large size and rapid rate of reproduction, these fish could single handedly decimate the Great Lakes fishing industry and irreversibly change the delicate ecosystem.
06.24.2010	The U.S. House of Representatives today will debate Rep. Fred Upton’s (R-St. Joseph) legislation, H.R. 5570, to save taxpayers upwards of $10 billion. Upton’s bill would prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from hiring thousands of additional agents and employees to enforce the new health care overhaul, saving taxpayers between $5 to $10 billion over the next ten years. Upton’s measure was the winning proposal selected by tens of thousands of folks across the nation via the groundbreaking YouCut initiative spearheaded by House Republican Whip Eric Cantor (R-VA). Debate on the legislation is expected later this morning. “Today, we’ll have an opportunity to send a loud and clear message that we should be helping small businesses grow and create jobs rather than doling out billions to the IRS to hire thousands of new bureaucrats,” said Upton. “Rather than spending money we don’t have, we must pursue policies that will grow the economy and create private sector jobs. The fight continues as nearly one million votes have been cast to date in the landmark YouCut effort to rein in out-of-control spending.” Each week, YouCut offers the public a list of five proposals aimed at reducing government spending. In turn, participants may vote for the one proposal that they would most like to see addressed by Congress. The following week, House Republicans will seek a vote on the House Floor on whether or not to take up and debate the top vote getter selected by the public. Votes may be cast online on the Republican Whip’s website at http://republicanwhip.house.gov/YouCut, by text messaging one’s vote to 68398 or by visiting Upton’s website at http://www.house.gov/upton.
06.24.2010	The U.S. House of Representatives today voted to block consideration of Rep. Fred Upton’s (R-St. Joseph) legislation, H.R. 5570, that would save taxpayers upwards of $10 billion. Upton’s bill would prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from hiring thousands of agents and employees to enforce the new health care overhaul, saving taxpayers between $5 to $10 billion over the next ten years (according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office). Upton’s measure was this week’s winning proposal selected by tens of thousands of folks across the nation via the groundbreaking YouCut initiative spearheaded by House Republican Whip Eric Cantor (R-VA). The House voted on a near-party-line vote 243 to 181 (8 Democrats sided with 173 Republicans), to prevent Upton’s bill from being debated. “With over one million votes cast on YouCut, the American public has spoken loud and clear that we need to rein in out-of-control spending and start working to create jobs and grow the economy,” said Upton. “We should be helping small businesses in Michigan grow and create jobs, not by doling out billions to the IRS to hire over 15,000 new IRS bureaucrats to enforce the health overhaul. Our efforts to cut spending and grow the economy continue, and I encourage folks to continue making their voices heard on YouCut.” Programs such as YouCut are necessary as the Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke has stated that the federal budget “appears to be on an unsustainable path.” Despite the desperate need to cut spending, the Democrats continue their spending bonanza and rapid expansion of government. On June 7 th , the national debt topped $13 trillion for the first time in history, growing by $2.4 trillion in about 500 days since President Obama took office, an average of $4.9 billion a day under the Democrats’ one-party rule. Each week, YouCut offers the public a list of five proposals aimed at reducing government spending. In turn, participants may vote for the one proposal that they would most like to see addressed by Congress. The following week, House Republicans will seek a vote on the House Floor on whether or not to take up and debate the top vote getter selected by the public. Votes may be cast online on the Republican Whip’s website at http://republicanwhip.house.gov/YouCut , by text messaging one’s vote to 68398 or by visiting Upton’s website at http://www.house.gov/upton . The full text of Upton’s remarks made on the House Floor are below: Thank you Madam Speaker. I rise in support of defeating the previous question which is the next vote here on the House Floor. I worked for Ronald Reagan. We have a one-and-a-half trillion dollar deficit this year. The last thing we should do is to raise taxes; the first thing we should do is cut spending. As many folks here know, the Republican side has been offering five different proposals every week for the past month or so, letting folks across America vote on the proposal that they think merits the most sense. This week was my proposal that won. That is, we are going to tell the IRS that we’re not—not going to hire another 15,000 some IRS agents in the next couple years to monitor health care, and we will save the taxpayers $5 to $10 billion—billion as in “big.” That’s not a bad proposal. Save the taxpayers some money by not hiring 15,000 more bureaucrats. What are these folks going to do? They’re going to make sure that every American verifies that they have health insurance? Maybe they’ll look at page 737 in the health care bill, which says that every business will have to file a new 1099 with the IRS for any $600 business-to-business transaction. So if you’re a homebuilder, and you just happen to show up at that same Chevron or Shell gas station every other week to fill up your car, and you spend more there…or your pick up, and you spend more than $600 for the course of the year there, you’re going to have to file a 1099. Let’s fight the deficit, not by raising taxes, but by cutting spending. This proposal does that. We were denied at the Rules Committee to allow this amendment to be offered, which is why we want to defeat the previous question, offer this amendment to cut spending, and help the taxpayers across the country. Madam Speaker, I would urge all of my colleagues to support this. I yield back the balance of my time.
06.22.2010	House Republican Whip Eric Cantor (R-VA) today announced Rep. Fred Upton’s (R-MI) proposal to save taxpayers upwards of $10 billion is this week’s YouCut winner. Upton’s winning proposal would prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from hiring thousands of additional agents and employees to enforce the new health care overhaul - the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act - saving taxpayers between $5 to $10 billion over the next ten years. The House will vote on Upton’s bill later this week. “We should be helping small businesses grow and create jobs rather than doling out billions to the IRS to hire thousands of new bureaucrats,” said Upton. “It defies reality that in a time of skyrocketing debt, Congress turns a blind eye to working families and sets aside billions of dollars for the IRS rather than pursue policies that will grow the economy and create private sector jobs. We must get our priorities straight. Nearly a million votes have been cast in our effort to rein in out-of-control spending, and working together, we can rescue future generations from an avalanche of debt.” Each week, YouCut offers the public a list of five proposals aimed at reducing government spending. In turn, participants may vote for the one proposal that they would most like to see addressed by Congress. The following week, House Republicans will seek a vote on the House Floor on whether or not to take up and debate the top vote getter selected by the public. Votes may be cast online on the Republican Whip’s website at http://republicanwhip.house.gov/YouCut, by text messaging one’s vote to 68398 or by visiting Upton’s website at http://www.house.gov/upton. Programs such as YouCut are necessary as the Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke has stated that the federal budget “appears to be on an unsustainable path.” Despite the desperate need to cut spending, the Democrats continue their spending bonanza and rapid expansion of government. “The economic alarm bells are deafening. As of June 7th, the federal government is $13.052 trillion in the red,” said Upton. “We now owe China nearly $1 trillion and Japan $800 billion and the debt continues to pile up. For every dollar we spend this year we will have to borrow 42 cents. At $13 trillion, that figure has risen by $2.4 trillion in about 500 days since President Obama took office, an average of $4.9 billion a day under the Democrats’ one-party rule.”
06.16.2010	A proposal offered by Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) to save taxpayers billions of dollars over the next decade is the leading spending cut measure featured this week on the groundbreaking YouCut program. Upton is seeking to prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from hiring thousands of additional agents and employees to implement the new government health care law—the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act—which would save taxpayers upwards of $10 billion over the next ten years. The American public will vote over the next week to decide which spending cut will be voted on by the U.S. House next week. “It defies reality that in a time of skyrocketing debt, Congress sets aside billions of dollars for the IRS to hire thousands of new agents rather than offer small businesses incentives to hire new employees - We must get our priorities straight,” said Upton. “Blocking the IRS from implementing the health overhaul and its hundreds of billions of dollars in new taxes will protect American taxpayers as we work to repeal this harmful legislation and replace it with meaningful, bipartisan reform. Over the course of four weeks, nearly one million people from across the country have voted via YouCut and we have heard them loud and clear. Folks in Michigan must continue to make their voices heard, and I encourage them to join my effort to block the IRS from implementing the health bill. Working together, we will rescue future generations from an avalanche of debt.” Each week, YouCut offers the public a list of five proposals aimed at reducing government spending. In turn, participants may vote for the one proposal that they would most like to see addressed by Congress. The following week, House Republicans will seek a vote on the House Floor on whether or not to take up and debate the top vote getter selected by the public. Votes may be cast online on the Republican Whip’s website at http://republicanwhip.house.gov/YouCut, or by text messaging one’s vote to 68398. Folks may also access YouCut via Upton’s website at http://www.house.gov/upton. Upton supports a number of commonsense reforms to restore fiscal discipline in Congress, such as the earmark ban and line-item veto. He is also a cosponsor of the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution (H.J.Res.79) to limit spending to one-fifth of the economy – the historical average since World War II. Such measures are necessary to limit spending as CBO estimates the President’s budget increases government spending to an alarming average of 24.1 percent of GDP over the next decade.
06.15.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), ranking Republican of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, made the following statement at this morning’s subcommittee hearing on “Drilling Down on America’s Energy Future: Safety, Security, and Clean Energy.” The heads of BP America, Chevron Corporation, ConocoPhilips, Exxon Mobil and Shell Oil Company appeared before the subcommittee. Upton’s prepared opening statement is provided: Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling this important hearing. What happened on the Deepwater Horizon rig was truly a national tragedy. The loss of life was heartbreaking and the environmental and economic damage that worsens by the day is gut wrenching. As I have said many times before, it needs to be made crystal clear to all involved – the polluter will pay. The American taxpayer should not and will not be on the hook for the cost of this accident – both economic and environmental. Nor should consumers be punished with tax increases passed in the name of “the BP spill,” that will only serve to add costs to hardworking Americans and further weaken our economy. We now have the opportunity to look BP America in the eye and demand that they fulfill their responsibility for the disaster in the Gulf, and an important step is the creation of an escrow account that will ensure American taxpayers are not left holding the tab. In the wake of this tragedy, we must work together to find solutions that will protect consumers, taxpayers and our national security. The cleanup has been too slow and too indecisive. I want answers. We all want answers. We must work to ensure a disaster like this never happens again. Since that rig exploded and as millions of gallons of oil leak into the Gulf of Mexico, our economy and our national security posture has been weakened. I am aware that each witness today was given a lengthy list of questions to answer in advance of this hearing. Many of these questions are constructive and relate to the problems at hand. Questions about rig safety; about worst case scenarios if there is another rig explosion; and questions about chemical dispersants. Legitimate and constructive questions that will help us forge a solution-oriented policy. I am, however, disheartened to learn that a few of the questions have nothing to do with the disaster we are trying to solve and serve the sole purpose of scoring political points and trying to advance an unrelated policy agenda that will raise taxes, eliminate American jobs, and leave consumers already struggling in this down economy with higher energy costs. For example: How much has your company invested in deployment of renewable or alternative energy (wind, solar, etc)? What steps do you believe the U.S. government and private industry should take to reduce the threat posed by climate change? Does your company support an economy-wide cap on greenhouse gas emissions that includes transportation fuels? Would your company be able to pass any of the cost of purchasing emission allowances through to its customers? Frankly, I would prefer to bring up the cap-and-trade bill again because I am convinced it would fail rather than pass by seven votes as it did last year. But that is not the issue at hand. Instead of wasting time talking about cap-and-tax, lets figure out how to cap-the-well. We are here not to discuss climate change, but rather what each of our witnesses think went wrong on the Horizon rig and what policy change can be made to ensure that this never happens again! Let us not forget what’s on the line here: jobs, the environment, our economy, and our national security. Three years ago, when BP was caught increasing its discharge into Lake Michigan, I joined with the Great Lakes Caucus and other colleagues on both sides of the aisle to beat back BP’s attempts to pollute our lake. We did not take a partisan posture. We worked together to solve the problem. We need similar bipartisanship here today. The Gulf of Mexico accounts for nearly a third of U.S. oil production. If we eliminate that supply our dependency on foreign oil will go up. Saudi Arabia will be happy. Hugo Chavez and Ahmadinejad will be popping the champagne. But the American consumer will be remembering the “good old days” when gas was “only” $4 per gallon. The team of engineers tapped by Secretary Salazar to examine what went wrong on the Horizon rig recently wrote, “We believe the blowout was caused by a complex and highly improbable chain of human errors coupled with several equipment failures and was preventable. The petroleum industry will learn from this; it can and will do better. We should not be satisfied until there are no deaths and no environmental impacts offshore - ever. However, we must understand that as with any human endeavor there will always be risks.” Let us learn from this awful mistake, fix the problem, clean-up the Gulf Coast and move forward to fix our ailing economy and create private sector jobs. I yield back. A video of Upton’s opening remarks can be found here.
06.15.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), top Republican on the House Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, today pressed BP America CEO Lamar McKay to establish an escrow account to cover damages suffered in the Gulf. McKay refused to commit to putting money aside in an escrow account. Upton supports the creation of an escrow account, with proper safeguards to keep both government officials and trial lawyers in check, to ensure that American taxpayers are not left holding the tab. “We had the chance to look BP America squarely in the eye and demand that they fulfill their responsibility for the disaster in the Gulf,” said Upton. “Although BP refused to commit to create an escrow account as oil continues to gush from the depths of the Gulf, our efforts to protect taxpayers will continue to ensure they are not left holding the tab.” An account of Upton’s exchange with BP America’s McKay was reported by PoliticsDaily.com: In response to a question from Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.), McKay refused to commit to putting any money into an escrow account to pay for damages to individuals and businesses affected by the Gulf oil spill. "I cannot comment on whether there will be a fund set aside," McKay said. "I can't comment yes or no." The full story can be found here.
06.10.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), top Republican of the House Subcommittee on Energy and Air Quality and co-chair of the American Energy Solutions Group, made the following statement is response to today’s Senate vote on S.J.Res.26, a joint resolution introduced by Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) that sought to overturn the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) authority to regulate emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. The measure was defeated by a vote of 47-53. Upton is a co-sponsor of similar legislation in the House, H.J.Res. 77, that also seeks to preempt the EPA’s power grab. “With national unemployment already hovering just below double-digits, the last thing we can afford is to hand over the keys of the U.S. economy to the EPA. If we leave the task of reducing emissions to the EPA, the consequences will be grave — gasoline prices will skyrocket, electricity costs will spike, production will be extinguished, jobs will rush overseas, and the environment will not be any better off. “Allowing the EPA to enforce either a cap-and-tax scheme or a carbon tax proposal – knowing full well that India and China will never participate – will send even more American jobs overseas at a time when job creation should be our primary focus. Where are our priorities? “The fight continues as we seek to stand up for working families already struggling to keep the lights on.”
06.09.2010	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed Rep. Fred Upton’s (R-St. Joseph) bipartisan measure to fortify the security of the nation’s electric grid. Upton, top Republican on the House Energy and Environment Subcommittee, teamed with Subcommittee Chairman Rep. Edward J. Markey (D–MA) in authoring H.R. 5026, the Grid Reliability and Infrastructure Defense Act (GRID) Act, to fortify our nation’s electric grid. The measure, which the Congressional Budget Office reported is revenue neutral and will not contribute to the national debt, was approved this morning in the House by voice vote and awaits consideration in the Senate. The GRID Act passed out of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce by a vote of 47-0 on April 14th. “Fortifying our nation’s electric grid is a critical matter of national security,” said Upton. “From Mother Nature to terrorism, there exist troubling flaws in our electric grid. Our vulnerabilities became all too apparent during the blackout that paralyzed the Northeast and Midwest in August of 2003. A small disruption in the power supply can wreak havoc on our economy, while an extended blackout of months would be catastrophic. As weaponry and other tools of warfare have evolved with technology, it is imperative that our electric grid evolves accordingly. The threats we face are much too serious not to get this done.” The GRID Act would authorize the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to address threats to the U.S. electric grid with emergency orders and direct FERC to issue new regulations to protect against future vulnerabilities to the power grid. Upton’s subcommittee has examined the issue of grid security, focusing on a number of critical issues including the vulnerability in electric generator control systems that could be susceptible to remote access. In the spring of 2007, the Department of Homeland Security performed a test which demonstrated a possible vulnerability in the software controls of electric generators that could allow someone to remotely destroy a generator. Upton and Markey’s legislation addresses vulnerabilities to the electric grid including cyber attacks or an electromagnetic pulse that could pose a substantial risk of disruption to the bulk-power system. The measure also requires FERC to address the potential of terrorists hacking into the control system infrastructure connected to the electric grid and cause severe physical damage to the equipment. The bill also directs the President to designate up to 100 facilities in the United States that are critical to defense and vulnerable to interruption of the supply of electricity. The measure also provides technical assistance to owners, operators and users of electrical systems to help protect the grid against attacks using electronic communication or electromagnetic pulse. The U.S. electric power grid consists of interconnected transmission lines, local distribution systems, generation facilities and related communications systems. The bulk-power system in the United States and Canada includes more than 200,000 miles of transmission lines and serves over 300 million people. Concerns about the vulnerability of the electric grid have increased in recent years, particularly with respect to cyber attacks. Watch Fred’s remarks from the House Floor here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5GoO12dGaW8
06.07.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), top Republican on the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment and strong supporter of nuclear power, announced today that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has awarded Lake Michigan College $90,000 which includes funds for up to ten scholarships in nuclear job training. In 2008, Lake Michigan College launched its Energy Production Technology Program in partnership with the Cook Nuclear Plant in Bridgman and Palisades Power Plant in Covert, to train professionals for careers in nuclear power plant operations. The program was developed in response to the anticipated need by both plants for a pool of highly qualified workers to step in when many in today’s nuclear workforce enter retirement. Currently, more than 200 students are enrolled in the program. “The program at LMC is a prime example of the nuclear industry partnering with local academic institutions to fill good-paying jobs at our local plants from within the community,” said Upton. “I commend Dr. Harrison and his colleagues at LMC for their vision and leadership in creating the innovative Energy Production Technology degree program that provides graduates the opportunity to find good jobs in their own backyard. The Cook and Palisades plants are such invaluable members of our community, providing stable electricity and hundreds of high paying jobs, all the while pumping hundreds of millions of dollars into our local economy.” The program, which is housed at the college’s M-TEC facility in Benton Harbor, has four specialized associate degree tracks which prepare students for careers in the nuclear industry - Chemistry, Crafts, Health Physics – Radiation Protection, and Power Plant Operation. Leaders from Cook and Palisades have been instrumental in assisting the College with curriculum development, and have helped to ensure that training is based on uniform standards used in the nuclear industry throughout the country. This gives graduates of LMC's program the advantage of having the skills needed to begin a career at any facility in the country, as well as at the two plants that play such an important role locally. “The support from the NRC through these scholarships will help ensure that our best and brightest residents will be able to receive the training they need to enter this exciting and important career field,” stated Lake Michigan College President Dr. Robert Harrison. “Nuclear power is a vital industry to this region and we are glad to be able to play a part in providing the skilled workforce needed for the future. The generous spirit of partnership that the Cook Nuclear and Palisades Power Plants have demonstrated during the development of the Energy Production Technology program has been the determining factor in the success our students are experiencing. The ongoing support of both power plants will continue to be the key to providing our students with the training they need to enter careers in the power generation industry.” Outside of the traditional classroom setting, students complete a 40-hour field experience course at the local plants. During their field experience, they are introduced to various areas of the operation. Additionally, some students also benefit from the ten summer internships provided by the local plants. The program’s first graduating class was recognized during LMC’s commencement ceremony this May. Those graduates are now in the process of applying for local positions, as well as jobs at plants across the country. Contact for Lake Michigan College: Laura Kraklau, Director, Marketing Services - 269-927-8198
06.03.2010	One day after the U.S. Treasury Department confirmed the national debt surpassed $13 trillion for the first time in U.S. history, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) renewed his call for Congress to consider the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution of the United States (H.J.Res.79) to rescue the nation from financial ruin. The constitutional amendment simply limits the federal government’s spending to one-fifth of the U.S. economy – the historical average since World War II. The limit could only be waived if a declaration of war was in effect or by a two-thirds vote of Congress. Such measures are necessary to limit spending as CBO estimates the President’s budget increases government spending to an alarming average of 24.1 percent of GDP over the next decade. “Eclipsing $13 trillion in debt should serve as a wake up call to those in power that we have got to start cutting spending now,” said Upton. “We had an opportunity last week to listen to the American public via the YouCut program and save $30 billion over the next decade by freezing federal pay, but unfortunately partisan politics prevailed. We are on a dangerous path and we cannot afford to keep spending at this breakneck pace. It is well past time for serious solutions and the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution will preserve our nation’s fiscal integrity and rescue future generations from insurmountable debt.” On March 5th, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released an analysis of the President’s budget, forecasting a record $1.5 trillion deficit for 2010 and $1.8 trillion in tax increases through 2020. By 2020, the debt is forecast to surpass $20 trillion which will be an alarming 90 percent of the economy. Interest payments on the debt are expected to more than quadruple in the next ten years, rising from $209 billion this year to $916 billion in 2020. Upton is a strong supporter of a number of other budget reforms including the earmark ban and line-item veto and has signed onto the Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution of the United States (H.J.Res.1). The constitutional amendment simply prohibits government spending for any fiscal year from exceeding total receipts for that fiscal year (except those derived from borrowing), unless explicitly authorized by both bodies of Congress by a three-fifths vote. The amendment would also require a three-fifths vote of each chamber to increase the public debt limit. Last Friday, Upton joined fellow House Republicans by voting to eliminate the 1.4 percent pay raise for non-military federal employees proposed by the Obama administration. The spending cut proposal was selected by the American public via the groundbreaking YouCut program. 87,124 votes were cast via YouCut to eliminate the proposed pay raise for all non-uniformed government employees which would save taxpayers $30 billion over the next 10 years. Unfortunately, the Republican effort was blocked by a vote of 227 to 183. Each week, YouCut offers the public a list of five proposals aimed at reducing government spending. In turn, participants may vote for the one proposal that they would most like to see addressed by Congress. Folks may access YouCut via Upton’s website at http://www.house.gov/upton.
05.28.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today joined fellow House Republicans by voting to eliminate the 1.4 percent pay raise for non-military federal employees proposed by the Obama administration. The spending cut proposal was selected by the American public via the groundbreaking YouCut program. 87,124 votes were cast via YouCut to eliminate the proposed pay raise for all non-uniformed government employees which would save taxpayers $30 billion over the next 10 years. Unfortunately, the Republican effort was blocked by a vote of 227 to 183. “Today we had a unique opportunity to listen to the American public and save $30 billion over the next decade, but unfortunately partisan politics prevailed,” said Upton. “Over the course of two weeks, over half a million people from across the country have voted via YouCut and we have heard them loud and clear. Folks in Michigan must continue to make their voices heard in this effort to cut spending and rescue future generations from an avalanche of debt.” Each week, YouCut offers the public a list of five proposals aimed at reducing government spending. In turn, participants may vote for the one proposal that they would most like to see addressed by Congress. The following week, House Republicans will seek a vote on the House Floor on whether or not to take up and debate the top vote getter selected by the public. Today’s vote was the second program selected by the American public. Votes may be cast online on the Republican Whip’s website at http://republicanwhip.house.gov/YouCut, or by text messaging one’s vote to 68398. Folks may also access YouCut via Upton’s website at http://www.house.gov/upton. Upton supports a number of commonsense reforms to restore fiscal discipline in Washington, such as the earmark ban and line-item veto. He is also a cosponsor of the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution (H.J.Res.79) to limit spending to one-fifth of the economy – the historical average since World War II. Such measures are necessary to limit spending as CBO estimates the President’s budget increases government spending to an alarming average of 24.1 percent of GDP over the next decade. The following five programs are currently being voted on to cut spending: Refocus National Archives Activities On Preserving Federal Records: Saves $10 million next year and $100 million over ten years. Reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac: Saves an estimated $30 billion. Terminate Broadcasting Facility Grant Programs that Have Completed their Mission: Saves $25 million in the first year, $250 million over ten years. Reduce Spending on Non-Essential and Questionable Research: Saves $3.8 million in the next year. Consolidate and Reduce Funding for Federal Advisory Committees: Saves $34 million next year and $170 million over five years.
05.27.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), ranking Republican of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, made the following statement at this afternoon’s subcommittee hearing on “Combating the BP Oil Spill.” Upton’s full opening statement is provided: Chairman Markey, I appreciate you calling this important hearing today. We are all outraged and saddened by the disastrous oil spill in the gulf that left 11 dead and has spread untold barrels of oil into the sea. It is a very, very tragic event for our nation. I hope to see more hearings from this committee so we can get answers from the administration and the companies involved about what happened, how we can fix it, and how we can ensure that a disaster like this cannot and does not happen again. This is not the time for knee-jerk policy reactions, but for answers. We first must determine what caused this accident and how we can prevent similar accidents from happening in the future. Second, it needs to be made crystal clear to all involved – the polluter will pay. The American taxpayers should not be on the hook for a dime for the cost of this accident. I was a member of the conference committee for the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. There is no doubt in my mind that the President and his administration have both the authority and the obligation to take control of the crisis. Clearly from where we stand today, this has not happened. The spill from the Deepwater Horizon rig a month ago is the first major spill since enactment of the 1990 law. The Oil Pollution Act gives the President the authority to oversee the cleanup managed by the responsible party or federalize the efforts. It is the obligation of this committee and the Congress to scrutinize what procedures were taken by BP and the Obama administration and how these actions or inactions led to the mess that we see today. Hindsight is 20/20, but lessons can be learned and applied in the future. The Coast Guard has been charged with a herculean task. However, I am concerned that delays of this administration have set them up for failure. For example, it was nine days after the accident before the administration tapped the Department of Defense to assist by deploying needed equipment to combat a spill site a mile under the water’s surface. I am also particularly interested in the Coast Guard’s delay of initiating the controlled burn of the surface oil immediately after the spill occurred. It appears there could have been a delay in using this tactic because of air pollution concerns. Was the EPA involved in the decision or the delay? Did Co2 or climate change concerns play a role? I would like these questions answered. Additionally, why were chemical dispersants that make the oil less harmful to the environment not fully used from the onset? Again, was this due to environmental concerns that may not have been warranted in that instance? Unfortunately, this is not the first safety or environmental problem we have seen from BP. Clearly they were not prepared to deal with a leak 5,000 feet below the sea. There is plenty of blame to go around, but as the Washington Post indicated this week, you can not plug a well with regulations, speeches or paper. There has not ever been a disaster like this in the 30 years they have been drilling in the deep waters of the Gulf. After such a stellar safety record, you start to think that things like this cannot happen. While we cannot turn our back on offshore drilling, we need to do a much better job and be prepared for the future. We need to what we can to prevent this from ever happening again and at the same time, be prepared for the worst. I look forward to the testimony and interaction today. I yield back.
05.26.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) is encouraging folks in Michigan to speak out and submit their ideas in a landmark effort to develop a new American agenda. House Republicans have unveiled America Speaking Out to allow Americans to play an integral role in the drafting of a new governing agenda. “America Speaking Out is just the beginning of a revolutionary effort to transform the policy agenda in Congress,” said Upton. “America deserves a Congress that listens and respects the opinions and priorities of its citizens. I encourage everyone to speak out and lend their ideas and participate in a robust debate that will aid in the construction of a new American agenda in the weeks and months ahead.” Through an interactive website - AmericaSpeakingOut.com - and new communications tools, individuals will have a new, innovative platform to share their thoughts and ideas for a national policy agenda. This site was developed by House Republicans as part of an official effort to increase the dialogue between Americans and their Congress. The website will foster an online conversation between Congress and the individuals they are elected to represent and show that the voices of the American people can still make a difference in Washington. Individuals can participate by visiting Upton’s website at www.house.gov/upton or by visiting www.AmericaSpeakingOut.com. At AmericaSpeakingOut.com, individuals can choose a category that they care about. Within each category there are topics on specific issues and a forum where folks can debate ideas that are posted, offer one of their own, or just look around. If the topic is a new one, they can start a new debate under an “Open Mic.” AmericaSpeakingOut.com is an open forum, where all Americans are welcome to respectfully offer their opinions, regardless of party affiliation.
05.20.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), a member of the Anti-VAT Caucus, is working to protect Michigan families from thousands of dollars in new taxes by opposing a European-style value-added tax (VAT). Upton has signed onto legislation, H.Res.1317, that expresses the sense of the U.S. House that “the value-added tax in addition to existing Federal taxes is a massive tax increase that will result in hardships for United States families and job-creating small business and will stunt economic recovery.” The U.S. Senate recently passed similar legislation in response to the VAT consumption tax now being regularly mentioned by members of the Obama administration, including the President himself, as a potential means to generate revenue as we face a $1.5 trillion deficit for 2010. “The Euro-style VAT puts a bullseye squarely on the backs of Michigan’s working families at a time when they are already struggling to put food on the table,” said Upton. “The value-added consumption tax does not work in Europe, why on earth would we want to implement it here? The Euro-style VAT is a job-killer that could slow our economy at the worst possible time. Experts have noted that a VAT could reduce long-term economic growth and result in significant job loss. Where are our priorities? We can avoid another Greek tragedy by cutting spending to bring down the debt and pursue policies that will create jobs, boost small business and provide relief to Michigan’s working families.” A European-style value-added tax (VAT) is a type of sales tax which is assessed not just at the retail level, but at every stage of production. The VAT is embedded within the price of a good itself. Put more simply, the VAT would amount to a national sales tax that takes additional thousands from each household. In Michigan, a 5 percent VAT would essentially double the state sales tax at a time of soaring unemployment. In an April 21st interview with CNBC’s John Harwood, President Obama echoed comments made by members of his administration indicating he is open to the imposition of a value-added tax on the American people. Asked if he could see the potential for a VAT, the President stated, “I know that there's been a lot of talk around town lately about the value-added tax. That is something that has worked for some countries. It's something that would be novel for the United States.” A recent analysis of the President’s record $3.8 trillion budget by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office revealed that our nation’s finances are in turmoil. The budget drives our debt to an alarming 90 percent of the economy by 2020, widens the deficit to a new record of $1.5 trillion this year alone, and raises taxes by $1.8 trillion through 2020. The European experience with the VAT has not been a pleasant one as their tax rates continue to rise. In the late 1960s, VATs started out as small sales taxes around 5 percent. Today, the average VAT rate in Europe is 20 percent with some countries as high as 25 percent. In March, Greece raised its VAT to 21 percent, which has contributed to the nation’s financial collapse. Studies suggest a small VAT of 3 percent would result in 2.1 million job losses by its fifth year. Upton supports a number of commonsense reforms to restore fiscal discipline in Washington, such as the earmark ban and line-item veto. He is also a cosponsor of the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution (H.J.Res.79) to limit spending to one-fifth of the economy – the historical average since World War II. Such measures are necessary to limit spending as CBO estimates the President’s budget increases government spending to an alarming average of 24.1 percent of GDP over the next decade. The full text of H.Res.1317 opposing the VAT is below: RESOLUTION Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the value-added tax in addition to existing Federal taxes is a massive tax increase that will result in hardships for United States families and job-creating small business and will stunt economic recovery. Whereas a value-added tax (VAT) is a sales tax imposed on the transfer of goods at each stage of the production or supply chain, and is determined by reference to the value added by each firm in the chain; Whereas a VAT is a tax on the transfer of goods at each stage of production; Whereas a VAT is hidden from the end user; Whereas a VAT unfairly targets low- and middle-income wage earners by assessing value on every production activity and passing the cost on to the consumer; Whereas President Barack Obama and Senior Economic Advisor Paul Volcker have suggested instituting a VAT on top of income tax; Whereas United States taxpayers will be subject to a tax increase as a result of the recently enacted health care reform legislation and the expiration of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts; Whereas, of the 10 major OECD nations with a VAT, only one has lowered the rate since 1962; Whereas Denmark has increased their rate from 9 percent to 25 percent, Germany from 10 percent to 19 percent, and Italy from 12 percent to 20 percent; Whereas, in Europe, this heavier spending and tax burden has also meant lower levels of income growth and job creation; and Whereas deficit reduction can be achieved by cutting wasteful spending, promoting policies for job creation, and expanding opportunities for small business: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that a value-added tax in addition to existing Federal taxes is a massive tax increase that will result in hardships for United States families and job-creating small business and will stunt economic recovery.
05.13.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) is asking folks in Michigan to make their voices heard in the effort to cut out-of-control spending in Washington. This week, the House Economic Recovery Solutions Group unveiled an interactive program called YouCut, an online initiative that empowers the American people to vote for specific spending cuts as House Republicans seek to cut wasteful government spending. Each week, YouCut will offer the public a list of five proposals aimed at reducing government spending. In turn, participants may vote for the one proposal that they would most like to see addressed by Congress. The following week, House Republicans will seek a vote on the House Floor on whether or not to take up and debate the top vote getter selected by the public. “YouCut is an innovative effort that empowers folks in Michigan and across the country to have their voices heard in this critical effort to cut wasteful spending,” said Upton. “The President and Speaker Pelosi are spending our nation towards bankruptcy. The deficit for this year alone is $1.5 trillion and the portion of debt per every man woman, and child is over $46,000, and that figure continues to grow. It is well past time Congress reflects the ‘will of the people’ and starts voting to end reckless spending.” Votes may be cast online on the Republican Whip’s website at http://republicanwhip.house.gov/YouCut, or by text messaging one’s vote to 68398. Folks may also access YouCut via Upton’s website at www.house.gov/upton. The Director of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), Douglas Elmendorf, recently stated that our nation’s present fiscal path is “unsustainable” and the problem “cannot be solved through minor tinkering.” An earlier report by CBO found that the President’s record $3.8 trillion budget for FY 2011 will drive our debt to an alarming 90 percent of the economy by 2020. Upton supports a number of commonsense reforms to restore fiscal discipline in Washington, such as the earmark ban and line-item veto. He is also a cosponsor of the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution (H.J.Res.79) to limit spending to one-fifth of the economy – the historical average since World War II. Such measures are necessary to limit spending as CBO estimates the President’s budget increases government spending to an alarming average of 24.1 percent of GDP over the next decade.
05.12.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), top Republican of the House Subcommittee on Energy and Air Quality and co-chair of the American Energy Solutions Group, made the following statement is response to the unveiling of the Kerry-Lieberman cap-and-trade bill in the U.S. Senate. “Study after study has predicted cap-and-tax will result in skyrocketing energy bills and massive job losses and Kerry-Lieberman puts a bullseye squarely on the backs of working families who are already struggling to keep the lights on. “We cannot allow Kerry-Lieberman to sell out American workers to the international community for a policy that will cost well over a trillion dollars and eliminate countless more jobs with negligible, if any, global environmental benefit. “We must pursue policies that will preserve the environment while protecting the pocketbooks of working families.”
05.11.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement upon learning of the passing of Charlotte Channing who was the longtime political reporter and editorial page editor of the Kalamazoo Gazette until her retirement in 2009. “I am going to miss Charlotte - she was one-of-a-kind with a razor sharp wit and intellect. “Charlotte was unparalleled as one of the best political-beat writers and columnists in the state. She effortlessly navigated the newsprint with a healthy dose of skepticism without sliding into cynicism, earning her a loyal following that looked forward to her regular analysis and commentary. “Charlotte had enormous respect by all of us on the receiving end of her insightful questions and she gave her faithful readers every angle and then some. “She knew politics, the personalities, and policy almost better than anyone. If you tried to spin her, she spun you back...oftentimes in the news pages. You’d go into an interview with her with a few butterflies and walk out with some too... as she demanded the same amount of preparation and professionalism of others as she demonstrated herself. “We are grateful to Larry and her entire family for sharing her with the community and allowing us to call Charlotte our very own.”
05.06.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-Michigan), senior member and former chairman of the House Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet, made the following statement regarding today’s decision by FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski to regulate the Internet. This Tuesday, Upton had urged Chairman Genachowski to preserve the Clinton-era regulatory classification of broadband services as ‘information services.’ “It is perplexing that the FCC, despite having the luxury of the Circuit Court’s wisdom and guidance on broadband, has chosen to abruptly embark down the road less traveled of red tape and regulation under Title II. The FCC’s blatant disregard of the Court’s decision is ill-advised as we should be pursuing policies that unleash investment and innovation at a time when our economy is desperate for growth. Since the Clinton administration, we have seen the Internet flourish under a relatively regulation-free approach and an astounding 95 percent of households now have access to broadband. It should be consumers, not government regulators, who determine the future evolution of broadband.” The text of Upton’s May 4th letter to Genachowski follows below: The Honorable Julius Genachowski Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street, S.W. Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Genachowski: In the wake of the Comcast decision, reports indicate that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) may attempt to change the regulatory classification of broadband services from ‘information services’ to ‘telecommunications services.’ Some advocates of this reclassification argue that the FCC would simply be reversing a bad policy judgment made by the agency during the Bush administration to subject broadband services to the less-regulatory statutory framework afforded to information services under Title I of the Communications Act (the Act). Contrary to this self-serving view, the classification of broadband services as information services is rooted in the clear meaning of the Act, the proper interpretation of the Act by the Clinton administration, and the Clinton administration’s conclusion that Title I provides the appropriate policy framework in which broadband services will flourish. While actions often do speak louder than words, it is the Clinton administration’s own words that demonstrate that the classification of broadband services as information services and the creation of a deregulatory broadband framework pre-date the Bush administration. In a 1998 Report to Congress, the FCC concluded that “when an entity offers transmission incorporating the ‘capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing, retrieving, utilizing, or making available information,’ it does not offer telecommunications. Rather, it offers an ‘information service’ even though it uses telecommunications to do so.” In that report, the FCC determined that “Internet access services are appropriately classed as information, rather than telecommunications, services.” The FCC based its conclusion on the statutory definitions of ‘telecommunications services’ and ‘information services,’ as well as an analysis of the characteristics of Internet access services. In particular, the FCC asserted that “[Internet access providers] conjoin the data transport with data processing, information provision, and other computer-mediated offerings, thereby creating an information service.” But the FCC also warned about the “negative policy consequences” of classifying broadband services as telecommunications services: “[a]n approach in which a broad range of information service providers are simultaneously classed as telecommunications carriers, and thus presumptively subject to the broad range of Title II constraints, could seriously curtail the regulatory freedom that the Commission concluded in Computer II was important to the healthy and competitive development of the enhanced-services industry.” The FCC concluded that “we note that classifying Internet access services as telecommunications services could have significant consequences for the global development of the Internet. We recognize the unique qualities of the Internet, and do not presume that legacy regulatory frameworks are appropriately applied to it.” Chairman Kennard and Commissioner Ness elaborated upon their reasons for affirming the classification of broadband services as information services. Chairman Kennard asserted that “as we refrain from treating Internet service providers as telecommunications providers, we promote the growth of Internet services.” Commissioner Ness emphasized that the FCC “[did] not intend to regulate” Internet access services. Commissioner Ness concluded that “the Commission [was] renewing its determination that the Telecommunications Act should be read to affirm the unregulated status of information services, including Internet access services.” She also stressed that “I firmly believe that this decision is supported by the statute and the legislative history, and that it has stimulated and will continue to promote desirable investment and innovation.” In 1999, Chairman Kennard also dispelled the myth that a deregulatory framework for broadband services somehow implies that the FCC is simply abdicating its responsibility: “it is in the national interest that we have a national broadband policy. The FCC – as I've said before – has the authority to set one, and we have. We have taken a deregulatory approach, an approach that will let this nascent industry flourish.” The broadband framework adopted by the Clinton administration has been enormously successful. It has stimulated tens of billions of dollars in broadband investment, created thousands of jobs, and resulted in, by the FCC’s own count, the availability of broadband services to 95 percent of housing units in the United States. While we need to focus on facilitating broadband deployment to unserved areas, it would be irresponsible to reverse the Clinton administration’s proper classification of broadband services and deregulatory framework, which have been so successful in making broadband available to the overwhelming majority of Americans. Sincerely, Fred Upton Member of Congress
05.04.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement following today’s announcement that Kalamazoo Central High School won the President’s first annual 2010 Race to the Top High School Commencement Challenge. The President of the United States will be the school’s commencement speaker on June 10th. “Congratulations to the students at Kalamazoo Central and the entire community whose remarkable outpouring of support made this extraordinary announcement possible. K-Central’s place in the national spotlight is a testament to Kalamazoo, whose leaders stepped up with the profound gift of the Promise that provides our youth the opportunity to receive an education despite the very difficult economic climate. “Having visited K-Central again just last month, I continue to be impressed with the students’ passion to learn and to better themselves through education as they represent the leaders of tomorrow. Winning the Commencement Challenge is a great achievement for the students, parents and faculty - we have so much to be proud of here in Kalamazoo.”
05.03.2010	Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich), Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), and Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.) wrote to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) today to express their concerns regarding cleanup of PCB contaminated sediments in the Kalamazoo River watershed. The letter inquires how the April 23, 2010, order approving the Lyondell Chemical Bankruptcy Settlement will impact the EPA’s cleanup plan. Last month, Levin, Stabenow and Upton expressed their concerns with the proposed settlement agreement for Lyondell Chemical regarding the Kalamazoo River Superfund site. The full text of the letter to the EPA is below and a signed copy is attached: Ms. Susan Hedman Regional Administrator EPA Region 5 77 West Jackson Blvd. Chicago, IL 60604-3590 Dear Administrator Hedman: We are writing to you concerning the Allied Paper/Portage Creek/Kalamazoo River Superfund site. As you know, this site is one of the largest Superfund sites in the country, and its cleanup is of the utmost importance to the people living in the Kalamazoo River watershed. In 2008, the EPA announced a proposed timeline for the removal of contaminated sediments from this site. It called for cleanup to begin in 2010 in Area 2, from the Plainwell Dam to Otsego City Dam. As you may know, Lyondell Chemical, whose subsidiary Millennium Holdings is one of the Potentially Responsible Parties for this cleanup, announced bankruptcy in 2009 and recently received a judgment in bankruptcy court that requires them to pay only $103 million of the estimated $2.5 billion in cleanup costs. We are concerned about the impact of this settlement on the cleanup process and would appreciate your response to a number of questions regarding the EPA’s plans going forward. We hope that these questions can be addressed at the EPA’s public meeting next week in Kalamazoo on May 6th regarding the Allied Landfill portion of the cleanup. What is the impact of the Lyondell settlement on the EPA’s cleanup plan? What is the impact of the settlement on the government’s total funding obligations and the total amount of resources available for the clean up? How has the settlement impacted the current timetable for this project and specifically when will cleanup work resume? The PCB contaminated sediments in the Kalamazoo River continue to be a danger to human health and a source of PCB pollutants in Lake Michigan, and we want to ensure they are cleaned up with all expediency. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Carl Levin, United States Senator Debbie Stabenow, United States Senator Fred Upton, Member of Congress
04.21.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), senior member of the House Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet, submitted the following statement at this morning’s subcommittee hearing on “The National Broadband Plan: Deploying Quality Broadband Services to the Last Mile.” Upton’s brief opening statement is provided: Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling this hearing today. Deregulation in the telecommunications sector has successfully promoted investment, innovation and more competition – and consumers have benefitted the most. Ninety-five percent of Americans have broadband and more than one choice of carrier. This statistic along with the tens of billions of dollars recently invested in infrastructure speaks for itself. It is clear to me, that as the level of competition in the market increases, the amount of government regulation should decrease. I hope we all agree that markets do a better job of protecting consumers and generating investment in infrastructure than regulators do. And in a competitive market, we should permit market forces to work, and not interpose government regulators between providers and consumers. All that does is impede the competition that we all want to see. Investment comes from the private sector, not from Congress or the regulators at the FCC. I hope the FCC and Congress will respect the Court of Appeal’s wisdom that government red tape is not the answer and allow the Internet to continue to flourish under the deregulatory approach that Congress put in place in 1996. That approach has unleashed investment and competition at a time when we are desperate for economic growth, and resulted in a 25-fold rise in broadband subscribership to 200 million today from 8 million just ten years ago. Unbridled competition will continue to unleash new innovations and advancements that will transform broadband, and American consumers and families will reap the benefits. I see the recent court decision as a victory for innovation and competition, a victory for broadband development, and most importantly a victory for every American - now let us allow consumers to write the next chapter in the evolution of broadband. The competition and alluring products offered by your industry will lead the way. I thank the Chairman, and yield back the balance of my time.
04.20.2010	U.S. Senator Carl Levin (D-MI), U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), and U.S. Representative Fred Upton (R-MI) today expressed their deep concerns with the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) proposed settlement for the Kalamazoo River Superfund site. The $162 million settlement negotiated between the DOJ and Lyondell falls well short of what is necessary to remove harmful PCBs from the Kalamazoo River and Allied Landfill. “I am committed to the full cleanup of the Kalamazoo River Superfund project, which is the largest in the state of Michigan,” said Levin. “I don’t think Lyondell Chemical Company should be allowed to reorganize in bankruptcy in a way that allows them to shed 90 percent of their environmental responsibility.” “While I’m pleased that the EPA is moving forward with their efforts to clean up the Kalamazoo River Superfund site, I have serious concerns about the proposed settlement agreement with Lyondell,” said Stabenow. “I will be working with Congressman Upton and Senator Levin to make sure the community’s concerns are heard and to understand how this settlement agreement fits into the larger plan to ensure the full cleanup of this site.” “For two decades, the Kalamazoo River cleanup has been of utmost priority, and now, at the eleventh hour, it seems that those responsible will be let off the hook with the community left holding the tab,” said Upton. “The community’s best interests must remain foremost in the clean-up effort, and the proposed settlement is clearly lacking.” The full text of the letter to the Department of Justice is below: Re: Public Comment - Lyondell Chemical Company, et al., D.J. Ref. 90-5-2-1-2132/3 Dear Assistant Attorney General Moreno: We write today to express our concern regarding the recent proposed settlement related to LyondellBasell’s environmental cleanup obligations. The proposed settlement of $162 million falls far short of the $5 billion the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has required the company to pay to remediate its environmental obligations. More specifically, the settlement allocates only $103 million for LyondellBasell’s share of the cleanup of the Kalamazoo River Superfund site; a sum the company estimated in court documents to be as high as $2.5 billion. While we understand that bankruptcy proceedings often leave creditors with a fraction of what they are owed by the debtor, we find it unacceptable that a company that will emerge from bankruptcy as a profitable entity can only pay pennies on the dollar of its obligation to clean up the Kalamazoo site. In addition to the statutory creditors standard to a bankruptcy proceeding, an environmental cleanup project also encompasses thousands of individuals and families that, although not direct parties to this proceeding, are truly creditors in every sense of the word as their health and quality of life depends on this cleanup. The Allied Paper/Portage Creek/Kalamazoo River site is one of the largest Superfund sites in the United States and has been reported to be the fourth largest contributor of Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) to Lake Michigan. Since it was deemed a Superfund site in 1990, its cleanup has been a top priority of the people in Southwest Michigan. The EPA, Michigan Department of Natural Resources and Environment (MDNRE), the two Potentially Responsible Parties (PRPs), local community groups and elected officials continue to work together to ensure that it is cleaned up in a safe, thorough manner. Unfortunately, the bankruptcy proceedings associated with LyondellBasell have derailed the cleanup process, including thousands of hours of meetings to identify an acceptable cleanup plan. We respectfully ask the Department of Justice to explain how the $103 million settlement was reached and address questions raised by the community, including how this settlement is in the public’s best interest and whether more money is available in the debtor estate that could be committed to this cleanup. We also ask that, if the Department cannot justify that the settlement is in the public’s best interest that you extend the public comment period and petition for a delay in the April 23rd hearing so these issues can be resolved. Thank you for your consideration of our concerns. We look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Sen. Carl Levin Sen. Debbie Stabenow Rep. Fred Upton
04.14.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), who worked in President Ronald Reagan’s Office of Management and Budget, expressed concern with House Democrat leaders signaling that they will miss the April 15th deadline and avoid a vote on the President’s record-breaking $3.8 trillion budget for FY 2011. If the House does not pass a first version of the budget resolution, it will be the first time since the implementation of the 1974 Budget Act. “How ironic that this Tax Day, as millions of Americans fulfill their obligation to Uncle Sam, House Democrats will fail to meet their own budgetary responsibilities,” said Upton. “At a time when we need fiscal discipline most, there is none to be found. For the first time in 35 years, it looks as though the House will fail to consider the President’s budget which sets the stage for a spending spree of titanic proportions.” On March 5th, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released an analysis of the President’s budget, forecasting a record $1.5 trillion deficit for 2010 and $1.8 trillion in tax increases through 2020. By 2020, the debt is forecast to surpass $20 trillion which will be an alarming 90 percent of the economy. Interest payments on the debt are expected to more than quadruple in the next ten years, rising from $209 billion this year to $916 billion in 2020. The Democrats’ delay comes as the nation’s financial experts are finally ringing the economic alarm bells. Last Wednesday, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke warned that the government must cut entitlements or raise taxes. “These choices are difficult, and it always seems easier to put them off — until the day they cannot be put off anymore,” said Bernanke. The next day, the head of the Congressional Budget Office echoed this view, stating that the nation’s fiscal path is “unsustainable” and the problem “cannot be solved through minor tinkering.” “We are spending money we simply do not have, and yet the Administration’s answer to our growing debt is to ignore the problem and spend more,” said Upton. “Folks in Michigan operate on a family budget to care for their loved ones and Congress should follow suit, ending the Democrats’ election-year gimmicks, and have an up-or-down vote on the President’s budget.” Upton is a strong supporter of budget reforms including the earmark ban and line-item veto and has signed onto the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution of the United States (H.J.Res.79). The constitutional amendment simply limits the federal government’s spending to one-fifth of the U.S. economy – the historical average since World War II.
03.26.2010	U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), U.S. Senator Carl Levin (D-MI), and U.S. Representative Fred Upton (R-MI) announced today that the County of Kalamazoo has been awarded $8,500,000 in funding through the Department of Transportation (DOT). This funding will be used on the ongoing construction of a new terminal at the Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport. "By expanding the Kalamazoo/Battle Creek International Airport, we are creating jobs and opening the region to more domestic and international commerce," said Stabenow. "I am pleased that our collaborative work with local organizations and government entities has resulted in a project that will have a positive impact on the region." “This award is good news for travelers in the Kalamazoo-Battle Creek area and good news for the local economy, which will benefit both from more efficient air travel and from the economic effects of new construction,” Levin said. “Improving our community’s infrastructure is critical to attracting new businesses and creating jobs,” said Upton. “With our region’s economic vitality in need of a boost, an upgraded facility here in Kalamazoo will be a foundation to our future economic growth and expansion. I applaud the great partnership between federal, state and local officials, and through our efforts we are now nearing the home stretch.” "We thank our legislative delegation for their continued support of our new terminal project and look forward to the completion of the new facility that serves as a gateway to Southwest Michigan,” said Cliff Moshoginis, Kalamazoo/Battle Creek Airport Director. This award follows an initial $6.63 million allocation of FAA discretionary funding secured for the first phase of the three phase construction schedule which began in June 2009. An additional $4.0 million in discretionary funding was secured in September 2009 for phase two. It comes as part of the Airport Improvement Program (AIP), which provides grants to public agencies and other entities for the planning, development and improvement of public-use airports that meet certain criteria.
03.25.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), senior member of the House Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet, made the following statement at this morning’s subcommittee hearing on “Oversight of the Federal Communications Commission: The National Broadband Plan.” Upton’s brief opening statement is provided: Mr. Chairman thank you for calling this hearing today. Welcome commissioners, it is great to have you here this morning. The trend in the telecommunications sector is towards development of advanced technologies and increased competition. Deregulation has successfully promoted investment, innovation and more competition - benefiting consumers. Ninety-five percent of Americans have broadband and more than one choice of carrier. This statistic, along with the tens of billions of dollars recently invested in infrastructure, speaks for itself. My message to the FCC today – the market works, do not break it. It is clear to me, that as the level of competition in the market increases, the amount of government regulation should decrease. I hope we all agree that markets do a better job of protecting consumers than regulators do. And in a competitive market, we should permit market forces to work, and not interpose government regulators between providers and consumers. All that does is impede the competition that we all want to see. I applaud the FCC’s goal of providing 100 million homes with access to 100Mbps broadband service by 2020 and I believe we can do that without regulation. This level of deployment will only come about with robust investment by the private sector. If, for example, the FCC requires carriers to unbundle their fiber, I can assure you this goal will NOT be met. Do not change the rules after investments have been made. Do not put up roadblocks to new investment. Finally, I have some concerns about spectrum “repacking” proposals that could cause harm to consumers and broadcasters. As a result of the DTV transition, broadcasters returned over 100MHz of spectrum to the government AND at the same time increased their services. I thank the Chairman, and yield back the balance of my time.
03.24.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), ranking Republican of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, submitted the following statement at this morning’s subcommittee markup on the Home Star Energy Retrofit Act of 2010, the Grid Reliability and Infrastructure Defense (GRID) Act, and the Collinsville Renewable Energy Promotion Act. Upton’s full opening statement is provided: Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling this important markup today. I am pleased to say that one of the bills before us today represents a bipartisan collaboration of the full committee and subcommittee chairmen and ranking members. We have examined the issue of grid security, focusing on the vulnerability in electric generator control systems which could allow remote access, enabling a bad actor to remotely destroy a generator. There is no question that this legislation should be comprehensive. We should seek to fill as many security gaps as possible. The threats we face are much too serious and abundant to only address a small portion of our vulnerability – the stakes could not be higher. This legislation will make our nation significantly more secure. The security of our nation’s energy infrastructure from attack is one of the most important issues our committee will address. This is not an issue we can take lightly. Energy literally powers our economy. Even small price spikes and supply disruptions can wreak havoc on the economy. It is imperative that the security of our nation’s energy infrastructure gets the attention and action it deserves. This bipartisan legislation is a step in the right direction to protect our critical energy and defense infrastructure. We are also addressing the proposed “Home Star” legislation today. I have always been a proponent of an “all of the above” energy policy. “All of the above” is not just about all sources of energy; it also includes conservation and energy efficiency. Upgrading energy efficiency in homes clearly is the low-hanging fruit in reducing overall energy demand and has the added benefit of directly lowering home energy bills which is of critical importance for working families struggling to get by. I support energy efficiency and there are bipartisan ways to create incentives for home energy efficiency upgrades, but this particular legislation is not it. The “Home Star” legislation we are looking at today comes with a price tag of $6 billion. At a time of historic budget deficits and runaway spending, we must be looking at ways to cut spending. And with all due respect to the Department of Energy, they are not equipped to run a program of this magnitude. According to the GAO, only 9,100 out of a planned 593,000 homes were weatherized in 2009. In my home state of Michigan 385 homes were weatherized in 2009, at a cost of $4 million. There is still another $240 million left unspent. Nationally, about $522 million in stimulus funds have been spent so far on weatherization. That is only 10 percent of the $5 billion set aside for the DOE program. Why throw billions on top of that? Clearly more money is not the issue here. We should embrace this opportunity to fix some of the mistakes of the past. We owe it to working families and the environment to get this right. I yield back
03.24.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), Ranking Member of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, is urging U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu to preserve all scientific and technical research related to Yucca Mountain. In a letter sent today, Upton expressed concern with the Administration accelerating the project’s termination, fearing important documents and research gathered during the $10 billion, 28-year planning phase could be lost if proper arrangements are not made. “Yucca Mountain remains our best and only option available to permanently store vast quantities of spent nuclear fuel and we cannot afford to lose any of the data gathered over the last 30 years,” said Upton. “It would be grossly irresponsible, and a waste of billions of taxpayer dollars, if invaluable research and data were lost as a result of the Administration’s haste to shutter Yucca Mountain. Considering the Yucca Mountain repository could get the green light in the future, it is imperative that the research conducted and billions spent over the last three decades are not squandered.” In the letter to Secretary Chu, Upton writes: Specifically, I fear that the accelerated pace at which this program is being terminated could cause much of the vast Yucca Mountain scientific and technical record to be lost. We cannot allow this to happen, and I seek your assurance that the proper steps are being taken to preserve these documents and records for posterity. This information, which was established through a $10 billion, 28-year effort, is the product of one of the most extensive research and development programs in our nation’s history. It is extremely important that this information be preserved and maintained to inform future decision-making on the management of spent nuclear fuel and other high-level radioactive waste. It is therefore troubling that the Department has not yet offered a plan to preserve and maintain the millions of documents, massive amount of data, numerous geologic samples and other scientific evidence compiled by the project. Such an important undertaking would require a significant amount of infrastructure to support the computers and facilities, yet there has not been any indication that these necessary steps have been taken. In fact, the Department has published no plans, and requested no funds, to make all relevant Yucca Mountain documentation publicly accessible, as required by the NRC. Moreover, I understand that the Department is planning to separate project staff and vacate project offices, opening up the possibility that no one will be left to preserve the scientific record.
03.21.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement following tonight’s narrow House passage of Speaker Pelosi’s trillion dollar health overhaul. Despite strong, bipartisan opposition, the measure passed by a vote of 219 to 212. Upton supports commonsense solutions such as tort reform, employer incentives, tax credits, eliminating pre-existing conditions, reducing fraud and abuse and increased insurance portability. “Debt is at historic levels and spending continues with reckless abandon. Under the President’s budget, we will have to borrow 42 cents for every dollar we spend this year alone. The nation’s gold-plated, triple-A credit rating is in jeopardy due to historic levels of mounting debt. Right now, without this trillion dollar health care overhaul, we are facing a debt burden that equates to just over $46,000 for every man, woman and child. Unfortunately that could just be the tip of the iceberg with this transformation of one-sixth of the U.S. economy. “Through creative accounting, we will spend a trillion dollars over the next ten years for just six years of benefits, but the real spending bonanza takes place when the program kicks off in 2014, continuing though 2023 to the tune of $2.6 trillion. Only in Washington can folks claim with a straight face that spending trillions of dollars will actually cut the deficit. “Dodging commonsense areas of agreement like tort reform in favor of raiding over $520 billion from the Medicare checks of older Americans defies belief. This bill cares more about the welfare of the nation’s trial lawyers than it does seniors who are on a fixed income. “This bill is chock full of hundreds of millions of dollars in unseemly backroom deals like the Louisiana Purchase, Cornhusker Kickback and Florida Gator Aid that bought off Senate votes and there is no guarantee they will be stripped out at the end of the day. “Folks are scared, and this trillion dollar health overhaul spends money we simply do not have.” According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, the President’s record-breaking $3.8 trillion budget pushes the debt held by the public to $9.2 trillion this year, 63.2 percent of GDP - the largest debt in history and the largest share of the U.S. economy in 59 years. By 2020, the debt is forecast to surpass $20 trillion, an alarming 90 percent of the economy. Interest payments on the debt account for a significant portion of the spending forecasts, rising from $209 billion this year to $916 billion in 2020.
03.21.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following remarks during today’s floor debate of Speaker Pelosi’s trillion dollar health legislation. Upton supports bipartisan solutions that all sides can agree on such as tort reform, employer incentives, tax credits, eliminating pre-existing conditions, reducing fraud and abuse and increased insurance portability. The following is the text of Upton’s remarks from this evening’s debate: Madame Speaker, Folks are scared. Debt is at historic levels. Spending is out of control. The nation’s triple-A credit rating is in jeopardy. And here we are. We will spend a trillion dollars over the next ten years for just six years of benefits. Only in Washington can folks stand here and claim spending a trillion dollars will actually cut the deficit. And how do we get there? We start by raiding $523.5 billion from the Medicare checks of older Americans. Shameful. Whatever happened to tort reform? Not here. Trial lawyers will continue getting richer suing doctors and hospitals, and older Americans will see their benefits evaporate. Where are our priorities? Yesterday, I introduced an amendment delaying this bill until we can guarantee Medicare’s solvency for the next thirty years. But it was denied. The Democrats would rather spend money we don’t have, than uphold our commitment to seniors. Debt continues to soar beyond belief. Today, every man, woman and child’s portion of the debt is just over $46,000, and it continues to grow as we dig the hole deeper. We can do better… and we should. I yield back.
03.20.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today offered an amendment to the House Rules Committee to protect the nation’s seniors’ Medicare benefits. Upton’s amendment to Speaker Pelosi’s trillion dollar health package would have prohibited the bill from taking effect until the Medicare trustees guarantee that Medicare will be solvent through 2037. Last Thursday, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reported that Pelosi’s health package reduces Medicare benefits by $523.5 billion over the next decade. Upton’s amendment was blocked this afternoon. “The trillion dollar health package takes better care of the nation’s trial lawyers than our nation’s older Americans. Where are our priorities?” said Upton. “We have a responsibility to America’s seniors to uphold our commitment that benefits will be available when they need care – how can we create a new, trillion dollar entitlement without knowing if Medicare will be financially solvent down the line? We need significant health reform, but we cannot raid the benefits of our nation’s seniors. There are many areas where we can reach a sensible, bipartisan agreement, such as tort reform to rein in frivolous lawsuits that cost tens of billions of dollars each year. But Pelosi’s trillion dollar health package wholly ignores tort reform, instead stealing over $500 billion form our nation’s seniors. This is not the American way – our seniors deserve better.” Speaker Pelosi is expected to limit debate on the trillion dollar health package, which represents one-sixth of the American economy, to a few hours. The Senate debated the health package for over a month, debating countless amendments beginning November 21st, before voting on the package Christmas Eve last year. The text of Upton’s amendment follows: SEC. 2. Delayed Implementation. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the provisions of (and amendments made by) the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the provisions of (and amendments made by) title I and subtitle B of title II of this Act shall not take effect before the date the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund under section 1817 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395i) submits an annual report to Congress under subsection (b) (2) of such section that includes a statement that such Trust Fund is projected to be solvent through 2037.
03.16.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) has signed onto the Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution of the United States (H.J.Res.79) to rescue the nation from financial ruin. The constitutional amendment simply limits the federal government’s spending to one-fifth of the U.S. economy – the historical average since World War II. The limit could only be waived if a declaration of war was in effect or by a two-thirds vote of Congress. On March 5th, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released a disturbing analysis of the President’s record breaking $3.8 trillion budget that estimates deficits will amount to nearly $9.8 trillion over the next decade – $1.2 trillion higher than the White House’s initial forecast. “The recent CBO analysis reveals that the President’s budget is a blueprint for disaster that puts us on the path to financial ruin,” said Upton. “We are spending money we simply don’t have, and yet the Administration’s answer to the growing debt is to ignore the problem and spend more. It is well past time for serious solutions. The Spending Limit Amendment to the Constitution will preserve our nation’s fiscal integrity, implementing safeguards to ensure reckless spending does not doom the opportunities of future generations.” The recently released CBO report indicates the President’s FY 2011 budget widens the deficit to a record $1.5 trillion for 2010 and raises taxes by $1.8 trillion through 2020. The President’s budget pushes the debt held by the public to $9.2 trillion this year, 63.2 percent of GDP - the largest debt in history and the largest share of the U.S. economy in 59 years. By 2020, the debt is forecast to surpass $20 trillion, an alarming 90 percent of the economy. Interest payments on the debt account for a significant portion of the spending forecasts – expected to more than quadruple in the next ten years, rising from $209 billion this year to $916 billion in 2020. “As always, the devil is in the details, and the CBO report does not even address the trillions of dollars in additional costs brought on by Speaker Pelosi’s government takeover of health care and jobkilling cap-and-tax scheme,” said Upton. “To put it plainly, we are in worse shape than the experts predict. We must break this vicious cycle of furious spending and ballooning debt – the livelihoods of future generations hang in the balance. Doubling the debt held by the public in less than 10 years is not the answer taxpayers are looking for.” The amendment’s chief authors, Reps. Campbell, Hensarling and Pence recently wrote, “The decision to amend the Constitution can never be made lightly. It is not potters clay to be molded by the whims of politicians, but a bedrock foundation. However, the Founders knew that occasionally sands shift and foundations need shoring up, which is why they provided a rigorous amendment process to be used with great deference.” Upton wholeheartedly agrees.
03.12.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today reminded folks in southwest Michigan to set their clocks forward this weekend in observance of daylight saving time (DST). It was Upton’s bipartisan, energy-saving amendment, co-sponsored by Ed Markey (D-MA), that extended daylight saving by four weeks. The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) affirmed that extending Daylight Saving Time (DST) for four weeks saves American families nearly $500 million and 2.9 million barrels of oil each year. “Between energy conservation, lower bills and fewer traffic accidents, the benefits of extending Daylight Saving Time are many – not to mention the additional hour of sunshine in the evening will help chase away the winter blues,” said Upton. “Government studies have proven the more daylight during the waking hours, the less electricity people use – most importantly, Michigan’s families struggling to get by are now seeing real savings in their power bills.” As part of the 2005 Energy Bill, Upton and Markey amended the Uniform Time Act of 1996 to increase the portion of the year that is subject to DST, providing longer hours of daylight and helping consumers cut back on peak-hour electricity usage. The amendment extended the duration of DST in the spring by changing its start date from the first Sunday in April to the second Sunday in March, and in the fall by changing its end date from the last Sunday in October to the first Sunday in November. The amendment required the DOE prepare a report evaluating the impact of the extended DST program. The key findings of the DOE October 2008 report include that the total electricity savings of Extended Daylight Saving Time were about 1.3 Tera Watt-hour (TWh). This corresponds to a reduction of 0.5 percent per each day of Extended Daylight Saving Time. During Extended Daylight Saving Time, electricity savings generally occurred over a three- to five-hour period in the evening with small increases in usage during the early-morning hours. The full DOE report can be found here: http://www1.eere.energy.gov/.../epact_sec_110_edst_report_to_congress_2008.pdf
03.11.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement in support of the Republican effort to ban earmarks. The effort comes on the heels of a report released last week by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) that estimates deficits resulting from the President’s record-breaking $3.8 trillion budget will amount to nearly $9.8 trillion over the next decade – $1.2 trillion higher than the White House’s initial forecast. “The current earmark system is clearly broken and riddled with scandal - we must work to regain the trust of the American people. Banning all earmarks is a big step toward getting our fiscal house in order. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has stated that the President’s budget is a blueprint for disaster that puts us on the fast track to financial ruin. We are in desperate need of additional budget reforms, including the line-item veto and spending caps to ensure that we do not cripple the livelihoods of future generations….let alone this one.”
03.04.2010	One year ago today, the bipartisan Congressional Accountability and Line-Item Veto Act, H.R. 1294, was introduced to provide the President of the United States with the power of the line-item veto. Despite wide bipartisan support, Democrats in power have yet to hold one single hearing on the commonsense, cost-cutting measure. Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) is urging Democrat leaders to immediately bring up the line-item to address reckless spending and record deficits. “Since the line-item veto was introduced one year ago, the nation’s debt limit has been expanded on multiple occasions by nearly $3 trillion to an incomprehensible $14.3 trillion,” said Upton. “Deficits are at historic levels, and the President’s recently submitted budget blueprint for 2011 totals a record $3.8 trillion. Despite our fiscal woes and unprecedented spending, House Democrat leaders have not held one single hearing on this commonsense measure that enjoys wide support from both sides of the political aisle. Yet, the furious rate of spending continues.” Under this long overdue legislation, the President would have the authority to single out individual pork-barrel spending items in legislation that arrives on his desk for signature and send these specific line items back to Congress for a timely up-or-down vote on whether to rescind these spending provisions. Likewise, the President would be able to request the rescission of narrowly targeted special-interest tax breaks. Unlike the version of the line-item veto that was struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1998, this bill will pass constitutional muster as it requires congressional approval of all the President’s proposed rescissions. “We need significant fiscal reforms now more than ever – and restoring the line-item veto is an important step in the right direction,” said Upton. “Future generations are facing an avalanche of insurmountable debt unless we get our fiscal house in order. As of right now, our $14.3 trillion debt limit equates to $46,319 for every man, woman and child in the country. Michigan’s working families are making difficult sacrifices to balance their checkbooks and pay their bills on time, and it is well past time for Uncle Sam to start doing the same.” In contrast to the President’s current rescission authority, which Congress can choose to ignore, the legislative line-item veto will ensure that Congress votes on the President’s rescission request within 14 legislative days after receiving the request. This expedited timeframe will make the legislative line-item veto a useful tool for controlling spending, while shining light on the spending process and subjecting questionable items to a vote on their own merits – apart from larger legislation. Constitutions in 44 states allow for some form of the line-item veto, usually restricted to appropriations bills.
03.01.2010	Congressman Fred Upton today announced that Huston Harrison of Benton Harbor has been accepted to attend the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Upton, who recommended Mr. Harrison for selection to the prestigious service academy, personally congratulated Huston on his appointment. Huston graduated from Coloma High School in May of 2009 and is currently enrolled at the New Mexico Military Institute. “I am thrilled to announce Huston’s appointment to the United States Air Force Academy,” said Upton. “Huston excelled at Coloma High School and has remained committed to serving our country since his graduation last May. He has successfully undergone a rigorous selection process and our entire community should be proud of his achievements both in and out of the classroom. Given his commitment there is little doubt that Huston will excel at the Air Force Academy and make our entire community proud.” Each year, Upton nominates students from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in their respective high schools and have gone through a rigorous selection process. The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board that is comprised of community leaders. Upon approval by the board, Huston’s name was then passed on to Upton, who then officially nominated the Coloma High School graduate to the Air Force Academy. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Upton nominated a total of 13 local students for the academic year commencing in the Fall of 2010. “For those local students who aspire to follow in Huston’s footsteps and are interested in attending one of our nation’s service academies, please contact my office for more information,” said Upton. “Our nation’s prestigious service academies provide local youth a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our nation.” Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact either of Upton’s district offices for further information: Twin Cities (269-982-1986) or Kalamazoo (269-385-0039).
02.12.2010	Congressman Fred Upton today announced that Ian Weston of Gobles has been accepted to attend the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. Upton, who recommended Mr. Weston for selection to the prestigious service academy, personally congratulated Ian on his appointment. Ian is currently a senior at Gobles High School. “I am thrilled to announce Ian’s appointment to the United States Naval Academy,” said Upton. “Ian is a remarkable young man who has excelled at Gobles High School both in and out of the classroom. He has successfully undergone a rigorous selection process, athletically and academically, and our entire community should be proud of his achievements. This exemplary young man who represents the very best that Michigan has to offer will excel at the Naval Academy. I encourage local students who aspire to follow in Ian’s footsteps and are interested in attending one of our nation’s service academies to contact my office to open a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our nation.” Each year, Upton nominates students from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in their respective high schools and have gone through a rigorous selection process. The selection process included an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board that is comprised of community leaders. Upon approval by the board, Ian’s name was then passed on to Upton, who then officially nominated the Gobles High School senior to the Naval Academy. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Upton nominated a total of 13 local students for the academic year commencing in the Fall of 2010. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact either of Upton’s district offices for further information: Twin Cities (269-982-1986) or Kalamazoo (269-385-0039).
02.10.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement upon learning that his friend and colleague, Michigan Rep. Vern Ehlers, will retire at the end of the 111th Congress. “Vern followed the distinguished path of the late Paul Henry, exhibiting the brilliant, independent judgment folks came to expect, always putting the best interests of Michigan and the nation first. “As a teacher, scientist, and public servant, Vern has always strived to bring the best out of others. Ever the consummate professor, Vern brought civility and decency to Congress, teaching his colleagues many lessons that we can achieve our goals and advance our causes without tearing others down. “In all his pursuits, from improving our schools, championing the sciences, and preserving the Great Lakes, Vern tirelessly fought to improve the quality of life for future generations. I send my friend Vern and his beloved wife Jo warmest wishes as they embark on a new chapter in their lives. “From Jerry Ford to Paul Henry and Vern Ehlers, the folks of Michigan’s third congressional district are proud of their rich tradition of excellence in public servants – the bar could not be set any higher.”
02.04.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today voiced his concerns over the growing debt as the U.S. House of Representatives voted to increase the nation’s debt ceiling by $1.9 trillion to a total of $14.3 trillion. The measure, H.J Res. 45, passed by a vote of 217-212. Every Republican and 37 Democrats voted against the bill. Today’s vote comes on the heels of an alarming report on the state of U.S. credit. The prominent Wall Street credit agency Moody’s this week released a report warning that our gold-plated AAA credit rating could be in jeopardy in coming years due to excessive deficit spending and ballooning debt. “Increasing the debt ceiling by $1.9 trillion is a startling display of fiscal insanity,” said Upton. “Within the last 12 months, Democrat leaders have already raised the debt limit $1.08 trillion, yet here we are today to pile on an additional $1.9 trillion – when is enough, enough? Increasing the debt limit to an unfathomable $14.3 trillion puts our economic vitality in serious jeopardy. Debt collectors in China are now licking their chops over our reckless spending and alarming deficit projections.” The President this week unveiled the Administration’s FY 2011 budget proposal that increases spending to a record $3.8 trillion, pushes the deficit to a record $1.6 trillion, and raises taxes by more than $2 trillion. In a report released Tuesday, Moody’s warned, “Unless further measures are taken to reduce the budget deficit further or the economy rebounds more vigorously than expected, the federal financial picture as presented in (President Obama’s budget) will at some point put pressure on the AAA-government bond rating.” The $1.6 trillion deficit for 2010 represents 10.6 percent of gross domestic product and is the highest such ratio of debt to GDP since the second world war (source: Financial Times, Moody’s warns US of credit rating fears, February 3, 2010.) “The increase in the debt ceiling equates to a $6,157 increase for every man, woman and child’s portion of the national debt, resulting in a total burden of $46,319 per person,” said Upton. “Michigan’s working families are making sacrifices to balance their checkbooks and pay their bills on time, and it is well past time Uncle Sam start doing the same. The alarm bells are ringing, and with Moody’s troubling prognosis this week, it is imperative Congress pursues budget reforms now before we pass the point of no return and permanently damage our fiscal integrity.”
02.01.2010	During a visit to the Galesburg campus of Eaton Vehicle Group this morning, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) announced that he was successful in delivering $2 million for Eaton’s ongoing project to build safer, more efficient military vehicles. The funding will assist Eaton’s development of advanced digital hydraulic hybrid drive systems, which will enable Army 4x4 vehicles to be operated more safely and effectively on the harshest terrains while also conserving a substantial amount of fuel. The funding that Upton has delivered since 2005 has helped Eaton expand and create jobs here in southwest Michigan. Upton secured the funding in the Department of Defense spending bill, which was signed into law late December. “Eaton is an integral part of our economic foundation here in southwest Michigan, and this funding is critical for job creation as our state continues to battle soaring unemployment,” said Upton. “With the continued funding for research and development through the years, Eaton’s presence in our community has grown, creating more jobs and playing a leading role in our local economy. I am thrilled that this $2 million will further solidify Eaton’s position at the forefront of exciting, cutting-edge hybrid technologies, many of which are currently being developed right in our own backyard. I also applaud Eaton’s collaboration with Western Michigan University to ensure that southwest Michigan will continue to play such an important role in upgrading the U.S. Army’s tactical vehicles. I am hopeful that the continued stream of federal support will help these vehicles reach production, empowering Eaton to thrive and create jobs in our region.” “Congressman Upton has provided key support to this program which is allowing us to integrate hydraulic, electronic and mechanical power into a sophisticated and practical hybrid power solution,” said Tom Stover, chief technology officer of Eaton’s Vehicle Group. “This next generation of hybrid drive system will provide significant advantages over what the U.S. Army is using today and it will enable them to carry more armored protection and soldiers while providing better fuel economy.” Upton secured $2 million for Eaton’s ongoing efforts to develop advanced digital hydraulic hybrid drive systems in U.S. Army vehicles. The reduced weight of the new hybrid system allows our soldiers to add lifesaving armor to their vehicles without sacrificing mobility. In addition to reducing the weight of the drive system, this project will also increase fuel efficiency by roughly 60 percent. The increased fuel efficiency will provide clear logistical benefits by increasing vehicle range and decreasing vehicle refueling needs. Traction and stability will also be improved, all the while maintaining performance. Eaton is conducting the research and development in collaboration with Western Michigan University. Last year, through his work as ranking member of the House Energy Subcommittee, Upton helped ensure that hybrid technologies were eligible for already existing tax incentives and grant and loan guarantee programs, which will help Michigan’s manufacturers, including Eaton Truck Group, commercialize hybrid power systems. Upton also worked to ensure that heavy hybrid vehicles qualified as Alternative Fuel Vehicles under state and federal fleet requirements. This allows federal and state fleets to purchase hybrids to save fuel, money and reduce emissions while helping to commercialize heavy hybrid vehicles. Upton has been a strong supporter of Eaton, having delivered over $10 million since 2005. In August 2007, Upton brought then-U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Stephen Johnson to southwest Michigan to see firsthand the company’s state-of-the-art hybrid technologies under development in Galesburg. EATON CONTACT: James Parks, Manager of Global Communications for Eaton Vehicle Group, 248-890-5899
01.27.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) made the following statement this evening following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address. “These are tough times for sure, and I am pleased the President focused on kitchen table issues, right where he needed to be. Folks are desperate for a chance at honest work, a steady job to provide for their loved ones, and jobs should be number one. The nation has lost one in five manufacturing jobs, with Michigan suffering the most, but expanding nuclear power is a positive start, and we can create hundreds of thousands of quality, good paying jobs in the process. “With double digit unemployment and lingering economic troubles, we have a great responsibility to remove the shackles of partisanship, working together to aggressively cut spending, reduce crippling deficits and pursue commonsense budget reforms. Working families are making the hard decisions to balance their checkbooks, and the government must do the same. We are in critical need of budget reforms and a spending freeze is an important first step, but we must follow through with substantive, concrete reforms that work, rather than embrace hollow budgetary gimmicks. “Let’s start putting folks back to work – Michigan’s families deserve better.”
01.22.2010	The Michigan Congressional Delegation continues their aggressive push to protect the Great Lakes from an invasion of Asian carp, calling on federal agencies to quickly finish and submit to Members a comprehensive response plan by February 5, 2010. The Members directive to the U.S. Army, U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Agency follows testing on January 19, 2010, positively identifying Asian carp eDNA in Calumet Harbor, Illinois, which abuts Lake Michigan. The EPA’s website says the carp “would disrupt the food chain that supports the native fish of the Great Lakes. Due to their large size, ravenous appetites, and rapid rate of reproduction, these fish could pose a significant risk to the Great Lakes Ecosystem.” Previously, the delegation successfully persuaded EPA and Office of Management and Budget to dedicate an additional $13 million to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to fend off the spread of Asian carp into the Great Lakes. “We have got to do whatever it takes to protect our treasured Great Lakes from the devastating Asian Carp,” said Upton. “Failure is not an option and there will be no turning back the clock if the carp breach the threshold. The most recent eDNA results indicate the Carp are alarmingly close to Lake Michigan – we cannot rest until we have a permanent, failsafe solution to keeping Asian carp out of our waters – our $7 billion fishing industry and countless jobs hang in the balance.” All 17 Members of the delegation signed onto the letter. Below is the Members’ letter: The Honorable Jo-Ellen Darcy Assistant Secretary of the Army, Civil Works U.S. Department of the Army 108 Army Pentagon, Room 3E446 Washington, DC 20310-0108 Admiral Thad W. Allen Commandant United States Coast Guard 2100 Second St., SW Washington, DC 20593 The Honorable Lisa Jackson Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W. Washington, DC 20460 Dear Secretary Darcy, Administrator Jackson, Admiral Allen, and Director Hamilton: It is with great concern we write to you today. As you know, the Asian carp poses one of the most serious threats to the Great Lakes to date. Should the carp get into the Lakes, the ecological and economical damage would be devastating. We understand that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, Fish and Wildlife Service and the Coast Guard have been working hand in hand to address the carp as a result of recent positive environmental DNA (eDNA) detection, and we applaud those efforts. However, we are very alarmed at the length of time it is taking to formulate a comprehensive response plan. The first positive detection of eDNA above the electric dispersal barrier was in November 2009, with subsequent positive detections. We are also dismayed at recent comments made to the media that several hundred carp would need to be detected before the federal agencies would change their current plan of dealing with this invasive species. The threat of the carp has been evident for many years, and it is not going away. As such, we request that the completed comprehensive response plan be submitted to members of the Michigan delegation no later than close of business, Friday, February 5th. Please include in that plan any additional authorities necessary to address the carp in a comprehensive manner. We know you understand the urgency of the threat to the Great Lakes and look forward to continuing to work with you in a constructive manner. Should you have any questions and to submit the comprehensive plan, please contact Joy Mulinex at Joy_Mulinex@levin.senate.gov.
01.21.2010	Congressman Fred Upton today announced that Marco Drayton of Three Rivers, Jacob Groeneveld of Dorr and Matt Hoff of Portage have all been accepted to attend the United States Military Academy at West Point. Upton, who recommended the three students for selection to the prestigious service academy, personally congratulated Marco, Jacob and Matt on their appointments. Marco is currently a senior at Three Rivers High School, Jacob a senior at Wayland Union High School and Matt a senior at Portage Northern High School. “I am thrilled to announce the appointments of Marco, Jacob and Matt to the United States Military Academy,” said Upton. “These remarkable young men have excelled in their respective high schools. They have all successfully undergone a rigorous selection process, athletically and academically, and our entire community should be proud of their achievements, both in and outside of the classroom. These exemplary young men represent the very best that Michigan has to offer. I encourage local students who aspire to follow in Marco, Jacob and Matt’s footsteps to contact my office to open a whole new world of opportunity and the chance to serve our nation.” Each year, Upton nominates students from Michigan’s Sixth District who have excelled in their respective high schools and have gone through a rigorous selection process. The selection process includes an interview with Upton’s Academy Advisory Board that is comprised of community leaders. Upon approval by the board, the names are passed on to Upton, who then officially nominates the local youth. The individual academies make the final decisions on military appointments. Students interested in attending a service academy are encouraged to contact either of Upton’s district offices for further information: Twin Cities (269-982-1986) or Kalamazoo (269-385-0039).
01.20.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI), ranking Republican of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, made the following statement at this morning’s subcommittee hearing on “The ExxonMobil-XTO Merger: Impacts on U.S. Energy Markets Upton’s full opening statement is provided: Thank you Chairman Markey for calling this important hearing. I welcome our two distinguished witnesses this morning. The topic of the hearing today is the “Impacts of the ExxonMobil-XTO Merger.” I see this merger as an important step forward to protect American jobs and promote domestic energy security. According to the Minerals Management Service, annual revenues from federal mineral leases are one of the federal government’s largest sources of non-tax income - $10.2 billion in FY07. This figure does not include the nearly $100 billion in taxes paid by the industry just last year. The oil and natural gas industry supports more than 9 million American jobs and adds more than $1 trillion to the national economy. I hope I do not need to remind my colleagues about the state of our economy or that unemployment is still in double digits nationally and nearly 15 percent in Michigan. We must support private industry that will continue to invest in our economy and keep Americans working. We are clearly at a crossroads. The policy decisions this Congress makes will have lasting impacts on our economy and energy security. India and China’s energy consumption continues to grow by more than 10 percent a year – China is gobbling up energy resources around the globe and consumption will continue to sharply escalate as one-third of the world’s population enters the industrial age. Energy prices drive our economy. It is foolish and shortsighted to take an adversarial posture against American companies that seek to develop American energy resources. We should encourage domestic investment and domestic energy production, especially as our energy needs are expected to grow by as much as 40 to 50 percent over the next two decades. Oil and natural gas are just a small piece of the overall puzzle in meeting the energy needs of future generations. We have the capability and technology to responsibly pursue American-made energy – through domestic exploration. Let us not forget that every barrel of oil that we produce here at home, is a barrel less we have to import from some place abroad. And every new natural gas field that is discovered and becomes technologically possible to explore makes the United States more secure from both an economic and national security perspective. We owe it to working Americans to put partisan politics aside and pursue long-term solutions. It defies common sense that some continue to shun coal, nuclear and increased domestic exploration as part of the solution. Continued pursuit of such shortsighted policies will prove devastating. It is well known that natural gas will play a more prominent role in a carbon restrained world. In fact, the success of any climate change policy will need to rely heavily on natural gas. Yet, some members of Congress are seeking to pursue policies that would take a majority of our domestic natural gas off the table. I strongly oppose these efforts. And it sounds like Secretary Chu agrees with my sentiment. Last week, when asked about hydraulic fracturing, he said, “If it can be extracted in an environmentally safe way, then why would you want to ban it? I think it can be done responsibly.” We are a nation of the world’s best and brightest minds. The success and innovation of the two companies testifying today is an example of that. With a greater emphasis on harnessing new technologies and American ingenuity, rather than government regulations that block America’s resources, we can address our expanding energy needs in an environmentally and economically sensitive manner. We should support actions that reduce America’s dependence on energy from unstable foreign governments and dictatorships. I see this merger as contributing to that end. I yield back.
01.15.2010	As the debate over cap-and-trade legislation continues in Congress, Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today joined Dr. John Dunn, President of Western Michigan University, and researchers from the Michigan Basin Core Research Lab to highlight landmark research being conducted to advance clean coal technologies and reduce harmful greenhouse gases. WMU is a national leader in the development of carbon capture and sequestration technologies, which have the potential to revolutionize the effort to reduce carbon emissions. Upton, top Republican on the House Energy and Environment Subcommittee and strong supporter of clean coal technologies, delivered $618,475 last year for WMU’s state-of-the-art research that has tremendous job potential for the region. “Everything must be on the table as we seek to reduce carbon emissions and promote the development of clean energy - whether it be clean coal technologies, nuclear power or a greater use of renewables like wind and solar,” said Upton. “Western Michigan University is at the forefront in the development of new groundbreaking carbon capture and sequestration technologies that will not only keep costs down for consumers, but also foster new jobs and a strong economy. Dr. Dunn and his impressive team of dedicated professors and researchers are trailblazers in the development of green technologies that will help transform our society for the better, making southwest Michigan an epicenter in the effort to reduce emissions.” “Sustainability, enhancing our environment and building a healthy economy are among the core values of this University,” says WMU President John M. Dunn. “Congressman Upton’s support has been a tremendous help in allowing our researchers to focus on technology that could transform the way our state and nation handle harmful emissions at the same time we boost our economy.” The $618,000 that Upton delivered last year has helped the university partner with Michigan industry, energy utility companies and local governments to examine the potential for carbon sequestration in the state’s deep geological formations. It was also announced in the fall that the research program received a $601,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Energy to help Michigan actively address greenhouse gas emissions from stationary emission sites, such as electric power plants, ethanol production plants and chemical and refining operations. In the U.S. House of Representatives, Upton and Rep. Rick Boucher (D-VA) have co-authored bipartisan legislation, H.R. 1689, to advance the development and deployment of carbon capture and storage (CCS) technologies. CCS is a method of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by capturing and injecting underground the carbon dioxide emitted from electricity generation plants that use fossil fuels. The legislation would establish a $1 billion annual fund, derived from fees on the generation of electricity from coal, oil and natural gas. Grants from the fund will be awarded to large-scale projects advancing the commercial availability of CCS technology. The bipartisan legislation makes funds available for state-of-the-art research programs like the research being conducted by Western Michigan University’s Michigan Basin Core Research Lab. Upton believes that in an era when energy is vital to maintaining a healthy economy, it is imperative that the nation’s vast reserves of coal be used in ways that are affordable, yet environmentally responsible. Capturing and storing carbon dioxide emissions from electric power plants fueled by coal is the right, environmentally responsible solution. “Although study after study reveals that cap-and-trade is a job killer that puts the bullseye squarely on the backs of working families with skyrocketing electric rates and gas prices, it is possible to reduce emissions and create jobs through a thoughtful, ‘all of the above’ approach,” said Upton. “We are a nation that consists of the world’s best and brightest minds. With a greater emphasis on new technologies and harnessing American ingenuity, rather than arbitrary mandates, we can go to great lengths to address our expanding power needs in an environmentally and economically sensitive manner.” While some commercial CCS projects are in operation, they are small in scale and have the purpose of enhancing oil recovery. Further research, development and demonstration is necessary for the permanent storage underground of large quantities of CO2 in a variety of storage media in widely dispersed locations around the nation. Carbon conversion technology also exhibits promise with the ability to convert CO2 into an environmentally harmless form. The new fund will finance research on various methods of capturing CO2 from the combustion process and establish the reliability of conversion or storage in multiple storage sites. Upton and Boucher’s bipartisan legislation enjoys broad support and has been endorsed by the United Mine Workers of America, the National Mining Association, American Electric Power, Edison Electric Institute, National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, Duke Energy, Dominion Power, Southern Company, Progress Energy and the Salt River Project.
01.07.2010	Congressman Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph) today urged President Obama, Speaker Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Reid to remove the cloak of secrecy from ongoing negotiations to finalize sweeping health care legislation. As a candidate for President, then-Senator Barack Obama promised voters on countless occasions that health care negotiations would be broadcast live on C-SPAN. On December 30, 2009, Brian Lamb, founder and CEO of C-SPAN, requested that congressional leaders “open all important negotiations, including any conference committee meetings, to electronic media coverage,” yet meetings continue behind closed doors. “Any bill of this magnitude, especially with a trillion dollar price tag that will impact one sixth of our economy and affect every single American, should be done in the light of day under the watchful eye of the American people,” said Upton. “The President promised numerous times that the public would have a seat at the table and all health care negotiations would be televised on C-SPAN. Yet, the American people now find themselves locked out. The ongoing backroom deals smack of hypocrisy in this supposed new era of transparency. What are Democrat leaders trying to hide? In this new year, we should embrace the bipartisan consensus to head back to the drawing board, allow all parties to have their voices heard, and reach a sensible, bipartisan solution that provides improved access and affordable care for all. America’s working families deserve better.” Upton has lent his support to multiple measures to increase transparency during the legislative process. In October, Upton signed onto H.Res. 847, a bipartisan resolution which expresses the sense of the House that any meetings held to determine the content of national health care legislation be conducted in public to provide full transparency. The bipartisan measure was introduced by Rep. Vern Buchanan (R-FL) and is supported by over 150 Members of Congress including former Democratic presidential candidate Rep. Dennis Kucinich (D-OH).
