03.10.2019	On February 20, U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.), United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Utilities Service (RUS) Arkansas state director David Branscum and South Arkansas Telephone director Mark Lundy hosted a rural broadband panel discussion highlighting the recent USDA RUS grant that South Arkansas Telecom received, and focusing on practical steps to widen the reach of future rural broadband services. Westerman issued the following quote in response: “In 2018, Congress and the Trump administration passed the Farm Bill, which included programs to partner with private entities to expand rural broadband connectivity so that more Americans can have access to the opportunities afforded by high speed internet. ”The programs the 2018 Farm Bill authorized include low interest loans, as well as loan guarantee and competitive grant programs. Today’s event celebrates this progress, as 25,000 more rural residents in south Arkansas will soon have access to high speed connectivity.”
03.10.2019	U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.) joined U.S. Rep. Kevin Hern (R-Okla.) and 63 other members of Congress in sending a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue, supporting the proposed rule to enforce work requirements for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits. “At a time when our nation is seeing historic economic growth, including generationally-low unemployment rates, this proposed rule will allow our country to continue to thrive by restoring integrity to SNAP and by moving the American people toward complete self-sufficiency, thereby saving American taxpayers billions of dollars… “As you may know, SNAP was originally intended to give hard-working Americans a second chance should they encounter a difficult stretch in life – it was never intended to become one’s livelihood, or their so-called ‘way of life.’ In spite of this, since our last welfare reform legislation in 1996, the program has repeatedly shifted from these first intentions, and has continually been weakened by increased administrative flexibility… "The USDA’s proposed rule would help to fix this significant problem by implementing several common-sense reforms to the current requirement waiver laws. These include raising the necessary unemployment threshold for local area work requirement waivers to seven percent unemployment, ending the states’ ability to gerrymander waiver districts by only granting partial state waivers for areas that are ‘economically tied,’ ending the states’ ability to accumulate and carryover work requirement exemptions for more than one year, and increasing SNAP administrative efficiency by setting clearer standards for allowable waivers.” Read the full letter here. Background: When the stricter work requirements were removed from the 2018 Farm Bill, Perdue announced a proposed rule to tighten SNAP’s work requirements for able-bodied adults without dependents (ABAWD) between the ages of 18 and 49. Under the current requirements, ABAWDs must work or participate in a training program at least 20 hours a week to receive benefits for more than three months over a 36-month period. However, states may request waivers for areas without sufficient jobs for the time requirement. As a result of these state waivers, nearly three-fourths of those on food stamp rolls in 2016 were not working. With a strong economy coming out of 2018 and a strong outlook for 2019, areas with an unemployment rate of just 5 percent could be eligible for a waiver on the work requirement. Thirty-six states currently waive the work requirements for some or all of the ABAWD population. “These waivers weaken states’ ability to move the ABAWD population to long-term sufficiency because they do not require ABAWDs to engage in work and work training,” Perdue said in December. The proposed rule is intended to move ABAWDs towards self-sufficiency through work and restore the original intent of SNAP, to assist and support families in difficult times. SNAP was never meant to be a way of life.
03.10.2019	U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.) released the following statement in response to the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2019: "In the words of Yogi Berra, this is déjà vu all over again: another massive spending bill with limited time to read it. Conference committee members had just one hour to review the provisions, the bill was filed after 1:00 this morning, and members are expected to comb through almost 1,200 pages of text in time for a vote at 9:00 tonight. Although we don’t have time to digest everything that’s in the bill, we do know what’s not in it. Even with hundreds of pages and provisions, the bill somehow still fails to give President Trump the resources he requested to secure the Southern border. Not only that, but Democratic leadership has also waited three weeks to act on border funding, and in the eleventh hour -- as the government is on the brink of needlessly shutting down for the second time this year -- they negotiate a bill and attempt to force it through the legislative process. I hoped it wouldn’t get to a point where the president contemplated declaring a national emergency, and for the sake of precedent, I hope he doesn’t have to do it. This is a failure of Congress, plain and simple. We must return to regular order and pass clean appropriations bills in a timely manner. Anything less is political gamesmanship and harmful to the American people."
02.07.2019	Tuesday, U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.) released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s State of the Union Address to a joint session of Congress: “President Trump’s address reminded us of the challenges America has overcome in the past, and the new solutions and extraordinary promise that await us in the future. Under the Trump administration our nation has seen a thriving economy, thousands of jobs created, strong efforts for immigration reform and effective mechanisms to lower drug costs. Tonight, the president set a clear agenda for the upcoming year. I look forward to choosing greatness in 2019, and am hopeful that Congress can pursue bipartisan efforts to achieve these goals.” Background: Per Article II, Section 3 of the U.S. Constitution, the president “shall from time to time give to the Congress Information of the State of the Union, and recommend to their Consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient.” This year, Westerman’s guest to the annual address was Eddie Arnold, an entrepreneur and contractor from Arkadelphia, Ark., and the head of the Clark County Republican Party.
02.01.2019	This week, the Arkansas delegation sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, voicing support of the provisions in the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Service’s (CMS) recently proposed rule, Modernizing Part D and Medicare Advantage to Lower Drug Prices and Reduce Out-of-Pocket Expenses, that would reform the use of pharmacy direct and indirect remuneration (DIR) fees, or pharmacy price concessions, in the Medicare Part D program. Delegation members issued the following statements in response: “Both community and corporate pharmacies are significant parts of Arkansas’s economy, and this proposed rule would relieve their skyrocketing out-of-pocket drug rates. This is a commonsense solution to a systemic problem that affects both pharmacy owners and seniors, and I’m glad to see the entire state delegation supporting these changes. I’m grateful for the Administration’s continued focus on lowering prescription drug rates, and hope to implement positive changes soon." – U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.), Fourth District “Unchecked middlemen should not be allowed to retroactively snatch money from small business owners and the seniors they serve. I applaud the Administration’s efforts to provide access to affordable medications and increase transparency within the Part D program. Arkansas continues to lead on this issue and I look forward to implementation of these necessary changes nationwide.” – U.S. Rep. Rick Crawford (R-Ark.), First District “The path to lowering the cost of prescription drug prices requires greater transparency and more competition. The proposed CMS rule accomplishes both of these goals and will benefit not just patients but also the 384 independent community pharmacies throughout Arkansas that often serve as the only local health provider in our rural communities. Creating more certainty for our pharmacies will ultimately help patients stay out of the Medicare donut hole and lower their out-of-pocket prescription drug costs.” – U.S. Rep. French Hill (R-Ark.), Second District "Pharmacies play an essential role in the lives of Arkansans and people across the U.S. By incentivizing cost-savings for patients, this rule will support our dedicated community pharmacists as they work to improve health outcomes. We want families to have access to quality care and services, and fixing this systematic problem will help us do just that. This is a priority for the Administration and entire Arkansas delegation, and I hope to see the reform quickly finalized." – U.S. Rep. Steve Womack (R-Ark.), Third District Background: Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) manage price negotiations between pharmacies and insurance companies. While PBMs should ensure that Part D plan beneficiaries have the best available price for their medications and that pharmacists are fairly reimbursed, they have gotten into the business of retroactively levying ambiguous “DIR fees” on pharmacists, creating an environment of uncertainty. CMS’s proposed rule redefines “negotiated price” to include all pharmacy price concessions at the point of sale, essentially eliminating the retroactive fees.
01.30.2019	Today, House Committee on Natural Resources Ranking Member Rob Bishop (R-Utah) welcomed U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.) to serve on the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources and the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Federal Lands. Westerman issued the following statement in response: “I am thrilled to begin another term on the House Natural Resources Committee. Natural resources are driving economic forces in Arkansas’ Fourth District. Arkansas is home to some of our nation’s most beautiful public lands, and it is an honor to continue policy efforts for the proper stewardship of our national parks, federal forests and energy resources. I thank Ranking Member Bishop for these appointments, and look forward to working with him and the other Committee members.” Background: The House Committee on Natural Resources considers and oversees legislation regarding national parks, forests, federal lands, wildlife, oil and gas, mineral resources and water.
01.17.2019	Today, Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Sam Graves (R-Mo.) welcomed U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.) as ranking member of the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment. “Investing in our nation’s clean water, inland waterway system, dams, levees and other water resource projects is essential to American economic development, safety and health,” Westerman said. “It’s vital that we invest in water infrastructure, as well as long-term conservation projects, to curb invasive species, clean up hazardous waste, and make sure we’re good stewards of the environment. Arkansas and our region are blessed with abundant and economically vital clean water resources, including the Arkansas, Red, Ouachita, White and Mississippi Rivers. Being chosen to lead Republicans on this subcommittee in the 116th Congress is an honor, and I hope to implement effective policies that maintain and develop infrastructure while conserving our country’s resources.” “Congressman Westerman is no stranger to environmental policy issues, and his extensive track record made him an excellent choice to lead this subcommittee,” Graves said. “He will bring a much-needed perspective on the importance of water infrastructure for rural communities, as well as a forward-looking, commonsense approach to protecting our environment without stifling our local economies. I am excited to work with him this Congress, and look forward to all he will bring to the subcommittee.” Background: The Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment has jurisdiction over water resources development, conservation and management, water pollution control, water infrastructure and hazardous waste cleanup.
01.16.2019	Today, U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.) and U.S. Rep. Julia Brownley (D-Calif.) announced that they will once again co-chair the bipartisan House Dyslexia Caucus in the 116th Congress. “Though society’s understanding and awareness of dyslexia continue to grow, significant challenges remain. Many communities and schools still lack the tools necessary for dyslexia identification and intervention, which causes families to be ill-equipped when helping their loved ones who have dyslexia. Congress must pay attention to these issues and help alleviate the resulting burdens. I’m honored to serve alongside Congresswoman Brownley as co-chair of the Dyslexia Caucus, and I’m committed to ensuring that advocacy efforts continue in the 116th Congress and beyond,” Westerman said. “I started my career in public service to help ensure that people with dyslexia, like my daughter, have the resources they need to succeed, and I am delighted to continue to serve as Dyslexia Caucus co-chair in the 116th Congress. By bringing together individuals with dyslexia, community advocates, scientists, educators, and policymakers, the Caucus can play an important role in ensuring that dyslexia is better understood and identified earlier, so that students are provided the necessary resources and accommodations to reach their full potential. I look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Westerman to ensure dyslexia receives the attention it deserves in Congress,” Brownley said. Background: The Dyslexia Caucus was founded as a bipartisan task force dedicated to increasing public awareness about dyslexia, identify policies that will support individuals as they overcome dyslexia, and ensure equal educational and career opportunities for individuals with dyslexia.
01.08.2019	On January 4, U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.) issued the following statement regarding the start of the 116th Congress and his priorities for the upcoming year: “As the first week of the 116th Congress comes to a close, I am honored to be a part of this legislative body, and am excited to take on the challenges and opportunities of the months ahead. Our work has only just begun. This year, I will continue fighting for proper stewardship of America’s public lands, including forest management reforms. I will work to find healthcare solutions that cover preexisting conditions at a lower cost, and will join with my colleagues to improve our country’s infrastructure, eliminating bureaucratic red tape and ensuring efficiency. Congress must also stop this partial shutdown from dragging on, and take decisive action to protect thousands of hardworking Americans’ paychecks. Now that the speaker election is over, I hope to see productive talks regarding border security, as well as ongoing immigration reform. Having been to the border, I’ve seen what’s happening and know that we must enact changes soon. President Trump has brought these issues to the forefront, and now it’s our job to act on them. Above all, I will remain an advocate for the people of the Fourth District and Arkansas. I have felt a burden of responsibility since the moment I was first sworn in to office, and that has never lifted. I look forward to all that this year will hold.”
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON – The Senate passed the Walnut Grove Land Exchange Act on Wednesday (December 19), officially sending the bill to President Donald J. Trump for his signature. Congressman Bruce Westerman introduced H.R. 5923 on May 23 of this year. The bill facilitates an exchange of land between Walnut Grove Church in Jessieville and the U.S. Forest Service. The church and an adjacent cemetery currently sit on 4 acres of Forest Service land. This bill transfers the ownership of that land to the church, and in return, gives the Forest Service 6.3 acres of land adjacent to the Ouachita National Forest owned by the congregation. “This is a good day for the people of Walnut Grove Church and the community of Jessieville,” Westerman said. “The church has been a longtime tenant of the Forest Service and has sought a resolution to this issue for more than 20 years. The fact that it takes an act of Congress to exchange such small parcels of land simply illustrates how broken the federal government is. I thank Senator Cotton for his co-sponsorship and I thank Senator Boozman for his tireless efforts to see this passed in the Senate before the end of 2018.” “This is a great day for the Walnut Grove Church,” Sen. John Boozman (R-Arkansas) said. “The church has vigorously pursued an equitable land exchange between itself and the U.S. Forest Service that makes perfect sense given the location of the facility it worships in. With the passage of this bill, the president’s signature is all that is left to achieve this fair, reasonable outcome. I’m pleased to have led the effort in the Senate in support of Jessieville and this congregation.” “Walnut Grove Church’s congregation shouldn’t have to deal with the federal government in order to simply worship and bury their loved ones,” Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) said. “I’m pleased that the Senate has approved this land exchange, ending a decades-old problem for the church and Jessieville community.”
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman introduced H.R. 7315, the Protecting American Communities from Wildfire Act, on Thursday (December 13). “As more and more Americans move closer to our nation’s forests, it is imperative that Congress protect our communities from the devastation of wildfire,” Westerman said. “The lack of large-scale forest management -- combined with a patchwork of State, local, Tribal, and Federal landowners -- has resulted in dangerous, unhealthy forests, which in turn has led to the catastrophic, deadly fires we see today. “Congress must act to protect American lives, property, and watersheds. The Forest Service must be provided the management tools to quickly shield these at-risk communities, and further, Congress must provide landowners the incentives and the resources to implement sound management.” H.R. 7315 accomplishes both goals. This act provides the Forest Service with the management tools they need to rapidly treat the Federal Forests in the Wildland-Urban Interface and simultaneously provides additional grant funding to at-risk communities, supporting programs ranging from the purchase of new firefighting equipment, to the FIREWISE Program. Expedited Forest Management in The Wildland- Urban Interface Provides USFS the authority to prescribe forest treatment plans within the Wildland-Urban interface, creating a halo of managed timber around an at-risk community. The Wildland-Urban Interface is a term defined on the local level: at-risk communities can tailor the amount of protective treatment needed for their town. Provides USFS the authority to prescribe forest treatment plans around the watersheds which supply at-risk communities, ensuring the steady supply of clean drinking water Categorically excludes the prescribed action from lengthy NEPA review, ensuring that this critical protection is rapidly implemented. Additional State Fire Assistance Funding Reauthorizes the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 at $100 million a year from 2019 to 2024, a $20 million increase from current funding levels. This investment will be distributed as block grant funding to states looking to implement protective forest management, with programs ranging from technical assistance to community preparation, like FIREWISE. This funding will incentivize State, local, and Tribal landowners to ensure that protective forest management is implemented at the landscape level. With restoration in the Wildland-Urban interface costing millions annually, investing in preventative measures now will save taxpayers money over the long run.
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday afternoon (December 12), the House of Representatives passed the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 2, the Agriculture Improvement Act. The legislation, better known as the Farm Bill, will now go to President Donald J. Trump for his signature after passing in the Senate earlier this week. Prior to final passage, Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) spoke in favor of the legislation. His remarks, as delivered: “I thank the gentleman for yielding. “Mr. Speaker, I was blessed to be a walk-on football player for the University of Arkansas and participate on two 10-win conference championship teams. Coach Ken Hatfield’s triple option offense averaged over 300 yards per game but it came in small chunks that resulted in first downs, that resulted in touchdowns, and eventually led to victories. “Mr. Speaker, farm incomes are down across the board, the West is consumed by wildfires, China and other nations are taking advantage of unfair trade laws. What rural America needs is a first down. Our farmers and ranchers need to see Congress move the ball forward and provide their families the protection and relief they need during these hard times. This Conference Report is not a hail Mary. It does not contain everything I would like to see in a Farm Bill but it does move the ball forward. It is progress that our farmers need right now. “I’m disappointed that Senate Democrats blocked many needed forest management provisions as we continue to sift through the ashes of catastrophic wildfires. However, this Conference Report strengthens the farm safety net and provides certainty to our farmers. It does address some forest management issues. It provides millions of dollars in new funding to combat a range of issues facing rural America – from funding to eradicate feral hogs to (funds to) address the opioid crisis and to expand rural broadband. This conference report moves farm policy in the right direction. I urge the adoption of the rule for this Farm Bill and I yield back.” Video: Westerman Speaks in Favor of Farm Bill
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON- Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Friday (November 16) upon passage on H.R. 6784- the Manage Our Wolves Act: “This bipartisan bill would accomplish what multiple administrations have been attempting to do for over a decade by delisting a species that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has deemed recovered under the Endangered Species Act,” Westerman said. “The gray wolf has been protected by the Endangered Species Act in its original habitat in the Western Great Lakes region since 1974. The ESA is a form of management that has allowed us to consciously protect this species by relocating and reintroducing the wolves to the western U.S. Now that the population has reached an acceptable level, delisting the gray wolf makes it possible to manage the species population at a constant level. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service attempted to delist the gray wolf in 2009 and 2014 but was challenged by serial litigants. Rather than spend its limited resources protecting vulnerable species, litigation activists have forced the agency to continuously defend every action. This bill will prevent the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service from wasting further resources responding to legal action environmental activists. It will also empower states to manage their individual wolf population and provide needed certainty to species management plans. For these reasons, I was glad to cast my vote for H.R. 6784.”
10.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04), along with 16 bipartisan co-sponsors, introduced a House resolution Tuesday (October 30) which would designate October as “National Dyslexia Awareness Month.” “Dyslexia is a learning disability which affects one out of every five individuals,” Westerman said. “It is important for schools, state and local educational agencies, and Congress to recognize the significant implications that accompany dyslexia. It is my hope that this bipartisan House resolution raises awareness of America’s most common learning disability and highlights the need for continued research into effective interventions.” The following Members of Congress are original co-sponsors of this bill: Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Larry Buschon (IN-08), Ted Deutch (FL-22), French Hill (AR-02), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Rick Nolan (MN-06), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-At Large), Steven Palazzo (MS-04), Mark Takano (CA-41), and Kevin Yoder (KS-03). Westerman was recently named a co-chair of the Congressional Dyslexia Caucus. Brownley is the Caucus’ other co-chair. In the 114th Congress, Westerman co-sponsored H.R. 3033, the READ Act, which authorizes multi-directorate, merit-reviewed, and competitively awarded dyslexia research projects using funds appropriated for the National Science Foundation Research and Related Activities account and the Education and Human Resources Directorate. The legislation was signed into law February 18, 2016.
10.04.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) and U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.) issued the following joint statement regarding the Senate’s delay in finalizing the 2018 Farm Bill: “Currently, nearly 1 million acres are burning nationwide. The 2018 Farm Bill contains bipartisan, commonsense forest management provisions to help prevent loss of life and property from these fires. Despite good faith efforts by the Farm Bill conferees, Senate Democrats refuse to even discuss these needed reforms. “This is not the time for partisan politics – fires this year have already claimed six lives and millions of dollars in lost property. The 2018 Farm Bill presents a historic opportunity to address our nation’s wildfire crisis and stop catastrophic wildfires before they start. We urge our Senate colleagues to listen to the stories of the farmers and ranchers affected by catastrophic wildfire, and work swiftly to finalize the 2018 Farm Bill.” Background: 2017 was one of the most expensive and devastating fire years on record, with the federal government spending more than $2.9 billion to suppress wildfires on 8.4 million acres of land. 2018 is shaping up to be just as destructive. According to the National Interagency Fire Center, 62 active large fires are currently burning nationwide, consuming 937,244 acres. In 2018, 7.7 million acres have been devastated by wildfires. This fire season has already claimed at least six lives, and is on track to be one of the most destructive in a decade. As of Oct. 1, 2018, the National Interagency Fire Center predicts an estimated 121 million acres are at above normal risk of a significant wildland fire. In November 2017, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2936, The Resilient Federal Forests Act, with bipartisan support. The legislation was carefully crafted in close coordination with the Obama and Trump administrations, the U.S. Forest Service, local governments, industry, the House Agriculture Committee and many other stakeholders to provide land management agencies with the tools they need to streamline bureaucratic red tape to get work done on the ground quickly, expand the pace and scale of active forest management and stop wildfires before they start through strategic thinning of overgrowth and dead trees. The 2018 Farm Bill contains many of the provisions of H.R. 2936, all designed to reduce the threat of catastrophic wildfire.
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage of H. Res. 1099 - House Amendment to Senate Amendment to H.R. 6 - SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act: “We must do everything possible to help those suffering with addiction to opioids,” Westerman said. “It is an epidemic ravaging communities not just across the Fourth Congressional District, but the entire country. That is why the House today passed legislation that prioritizes treatment for those suffering and would put new regulations on the Postal Service intended to limit the shipments of fentanyl, among other policy changes. I was proud to support this legislation and will continue to fight for those struggling to overcome addiction.” According to the House Energy and Commerce Committee, H.R. 6 would help in “efforts to combat the opioid crisis by advancing treatment and recovery initiatives, improving prevention, protecting our communities, and bolstering our efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl.” More information may be found here.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday (September 26) passed H.R. 302, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018. Included in the legislation was H.R. 4395, the Geospatial Data Act, which Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) introduced with Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-06) in November 2017. H.R. 4395 would prevent duplicative data purchases by federal agencies and modernize the collection of said data, which would save an untold amount of the American taxpayers’ money. “Most are unaware but geospatial data is part of our everyday lives as it is utilized across the agencies of the federal government from plotting the path of a new interstate to coordinating disaster recovery efforts after a major storm. Advances in geospatial technology have revolutionized how we access, use, and distribute this data and this legislation will update how our government manages and maintains it,” Westerman said. “The benefits of geospatial technology are truly untold. However, when our federal agencies use geospatial data, different agencies can acquire duplicative information and waste precious taxpayer resources in the process. I am glad House leadership listened to industry stakeholders and included the Geospatial Data Act in the FAA Reauthorization Bill of 2018. This will streamline the collection of this data across the federal government while saving money, improving information accuracy, and providing a more modern system for collecting and sharing geospatial data.” This legislation is supported by the American Association of Geographers (AAG), American Geosciences Institute (AGI), Association of Research Libraries (ARL), Cartography and Geographic Information Society (CaGIS), GIS Certification Institute (GISCI), Geographic and Land Information Society (GLIS), Google, Tesla, United States Geospatial Intelligence Foundation (USGIF), University Consortium for Geographic Information Science (UCGIS), Urban and Regional Information Systems Association (URISA), and Women in GIS (WiGIS).
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON – The House on Wednesday (September 12) passed H.R. 5923, the Walnut Grove Land Exchange Act, sponsored by Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04). The bill would facilitate an exchange of land between Walnut Grove Church in Jessieville and the U.S. Forest Service. The church and an adjacent cemetery currently sit on 4 acres of Forest Service land. This bill transfers the ownership of that land to the church, and in return, gives the Forest Service 6.3 acres of land adjacent to the Ouachita National Forest owned by the congregation. The bill passed with bipartisan support by a vote of 379-3. Westerman delivered the following speech before passage on the floor (as prepared): Mr. Speaker, the Walnut Grove Land Exchange Act should not need to exist. It is a simple bill, which swaps four acres of public property – which currently houses a community cemetery and church— with six acres of private timberland. To those who hear this and think – “Ten acres? Why on earth would it take an act of Congress to exchange a total of ten acres?” – rest assured that I had the same reaction. Not that this bill, or the church itself are unimportant. On the contrary, the Walnut Valley Community Church is a vital to the rural residents of Garland County. The church is more than just a place of worship, and has held countless weddings, baptisms, community meetings, and more. It is the final resting place for many of Garland County’s servicemen and women, and the church itself has served as a search and rescue command post in the past. However, under current law, the church does not own the land it worships on, or buries its dead in. As such, the Forest Service has the authority to raise the church’s use fee each year and has done so over the past decade. Worse yet, any improvement or restoration of the church must be done with the explicit permission of the federal government. As a result, the Walnut Grove congregation have not been able to modify or upgrade their 80-year-old building, despite the need to expand to match the growing demand of the community. Members of the congregation have tried for decades to resolve this issue with the Forest Service. They have called, written, and petitioned both the local and regional offices to purchase or exchange the land. They have willingly taken on maintenance of the property and have graciously accepted higher and higher usage fees under the guise that an exchange was coming. An exchange never came. Mr. Speaker, it is time we correct this 20-year abuse. This bill is vitally important this congregation, and to the rest of Garland County. My bill has wide bipartisan and bicameral support, having passed committee unanimously, and having a companion measure in the Senate. I urge a swift passage of this bill and yield back.
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement Thursday (September 6) expressing support for H.R. 1635, the Empowering Students through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act. The bill, introduced by Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-Kentucky) passed the House Wednesday (September 5) by a vote of 406-4. “Student loan debt has ballooned in recent years as the cost of education has increased,” Westerman said. “For many, student loans are the only way to fill the funding gap to pay for higher education. But the process of applying for and issuing student loans has proven inadequate in educating students on the true costs they incur. The Enhanced Financial Counseling Act puts our students first, enhancing financial aid counseling procedures and ensuring students have the information necessary to make responsible decisions about paying for education. These are choices that will affect the rest of their lives and students are entitled to the right tools as they navigate options. I was proud to support this bill.” According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, the bill: Ensures borrowers, both students and parents, have the most up-to-date information by requiring financial counseling before an individual signs on the dotted line; Requires annual counseling to include recommendations for students to exhaust available grant, work-study, and scholarship assistance before taking out loans, as well as review all federal student loan options before considering a private loan; Requires notice that students and parents are not required to accept the full amount of the loan they are offered and information on any outstanding federal loan balance the borrower may have; Would bolster exit counseling, including the borrower’s outstanding loan balance, anticipated monthly payments under various repayment plans, information on the grace period preceding repayment, as well as contact information for those organizations servicing the borrower’s loans; Would require all recipients of a Pell Grant to undergo annual counseling, including the terms and conditions of their grant, the approved educational expenses the grant can be applied to, the maximum length of time a student is eligible to receive Pell Grants, the level of assistance a student is eligible to receive, why a student may need to repay a Pell Grant, and how a student may seek additional assistance due to a change in his or her financial circumstances; and Requires the Secretary of Education to maintain a consumer-tested, online counseling tool that institutions can use to provide required counseling to their students. Institutions will have the following options available to provide students financial counseling: directly during an in-person session; an online tool created for the institution; and the online tool administered by the Department of Education.
08.28.2018	HOT SPRINGS, Arkansas – U.S. Senators John Boozman, Tom Cotton, and Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) announced a Department of Transportation grant Tuesday (August 28) for Memorial Field in Hot Springs. The $1 million grant will pay for reconstruction of the airport’s taxiway. “Memorial Field is an asset for the people of Garland County,” Westerman said. “This grant will help fund reconstruction of the airport’s taxiway, an infrastructure improvement necessary to continue meeting the area’s air transportation needs for decades to come.” “Memorial Field plays an important role in the economic success of Hot Springs. This investment will make needed improvements for future growth and development in and around the community,” Boozman said. “From agriculture to travel, commerce to healthcare, rural airports play an important role in many Arkansas communities,” Cotton said. “I appreciate this important infrastructure investment, which will keep the airport of Hot Springs functional and safe.” Westerman, a second term congressman from Hot Springs, serves on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Subcommittee on Aviation.
07.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Reps. Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.) and John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) advocated this week for the Red River Army Depot’s (RRAD) ongoing importance in support of our nation’s warfighters. The lawmakers pushed General Gustave F. Perna, Army Materiel Command (AMC), to provide an update on whether RRAD will be chosen to service the Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle (AMPV) as the Depot Source of Repair (DSOR). In a letter to General Perna, they said they supported RRAD’s selection for the DSOR because it offers the technical expertise, dedicated personnel, industry relationships, and facility readiness required to successfully service the AMPV. “The men and women of the Red River Army Depot have the skill, dedication, and professionalism which make the depot the ideal location for servicing the AMPV. I look forward to a swift decision that will keep the citizens of the Texarkana region serving our armed forces for years to come,” Westerman said. “For more than 75 years, the dedicated men and women at the Depot have remained committed to providing the very best military equipment to our nation’s warfighters. Their history of award-winning excellence makes me confident the Depot is the very best choice to service the AMPV, and I look forward to a swift decision on this matter,” Ratcliffe said. Click here to view the full letter sent to General Perna in support of RRAD, which included Reps. Mike Johnson (R-La.) and Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.) as cosigners.
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman released the following statement Thursday (July 26), noting passage this week of H.R. 5864, the VA Hospitals Establishing Leadership Performance Act: “As veterans in Arkansas are aware, problems with staffing at the Veterans Administration created a man-made crisis and lives could be on the line," Westerman said. "Tens of thousands of pathology results are being re-evaluated at this time after a pathologist was allegedly discovered impaired on the job. We have to strengthen the tools to remove bad doctors and other staff who do not perform to standard. That is why I voted to modernize the VA’s human resources department, which would make the VA’s HR department comparable to private sector employers and bring it into the 21st Century. Accountability is required when maleficence is discovered and this bill would provide the tools to hold bad actors accountable.”
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman introduced the PETITION Act (Providing ESA Timing Improvements That Increase Opportunities for Nonlisting Act) on Thursday (July 12), part of a package of nine bills introduced by members of the Congressional Western Caucus which would reform the Endangered Species Act. Westerman’s bill addresses the longstanding issue of petition backlogs, which drain limited federal resources and result in unnecessary lawsuits. “It is long past time that we reform the Endangered Species Act,” Westerman said. “In the more than 40 years since its introduction and passage, much has changed in our nation and its environment, but the law has not kept up with the evolving realities of the 21st Century. The PETITION Act would give the Interior Secretary the tools necessary to prevent frivolous lawsuits from stopping the work of the Fish and Wildlife Service, while ensuring more resources are available to protect truly endangered species. I thank my colleagues from the Congressional Western Caucus for their leadership on this issue and I look forward to our collective efforts to modernize an important piece of American law.” The following is a bill summary, courtesy of the Congressional Western Caucus: The Endangered Species Act is being litigated to death. The Providing ESA Timing Improvements That Increase Opportunities for Nonlisting Act, also known as the PETITION Act, aims to help address this problem. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) is instructed by law to issue decisions on petitions within specific timeframes established in the Act. When they miss those timelines, they are vulnerable to lawsuits by petitioners. A final, crucial fact to note: Anyone can submit any number of petitions containing any amount of information – or misinformation. The combination of these facts has inspired well-funded groups like the Center for Biological Diversity and the Sierra Club to jam USFWS’ queue with hundreds of poorly-studied listing proposals at a time – mostly for species which would never receive a listing under the Act on the merits – in order to overload USFWS by forcing them to expend tremendous resources studying frivolous requests, and ultimately blow past the statutory deadlines. Once that happens, these groups move to file massive suits targeting the petition ‘backlog’ that they just intentionally worked to create. USFWS has no legal defense for its petition backlog – it has blown past the statutory deadlines – so a common outcome of these suits is for USFWS to enter into settlements in which they agree to absurdly fast decisions on species which have not received a balanced review. USFWS is forced to rely on these groups’ data and analysis, which are inevitably biased in favor of a listing at the level of habitat, population levels and species range. In these cases, the real study then takes place once such a species is already listed – and we know that once listed, a species is almost never removed. Extremist groups funded by leftist billionaires are exploiting the basic framework of the Endangered Species Act to lock up land and water by making use of the open-ended petition process. Unreformed, the original statute makes USFWS a sitting duck – and an ‘endangered’ one at that. This bill reforms that petition process, allowing the Secretary to declare a ‘petition backlog’ when too many frivolous petitions stack up and USFWS becomes vulnerable to lawsuit. All necessary protections for legitimate species listing requests which contain sufficient, duly-collected scientific information remain in place under this bill. However, petitions designed to jam the system and secure unwarranted species listings are automatically discharged during a backlog. One important side-effect of these reforms will be that well-funded petitioners will be incentivized to pour their resources into producing legitimate petitions backed by balanced study, and move away from endlessly litigating frivolity in courts. Congress has been discussing a ‘fix’ to the petition backlog problem for decades – for roughly as long as outside groups have been working to short-circuit the USFWS’ petition process, in fact. This bill implements such a fix so that Congress can step in and prevent illegitimate mass-listings of unqualified, understudied species as well as ensure more resources are going to species that are actually threatened and endangered. Bill text: https://westerncaucus.house.gov/uploadedfiles/wester_037_xml.pdf
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) spoke Tuesday (June 26) in the House of Representatives on the opioid epidemic, which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports took more than 400 Arkansas lives in 2016. In his speech, Westerman called for increased border security to stop the flow of a synthetic opioid known as fentanyl. He noted that 984 pounds of the drug had been seized at the border so far this fiscal year, enough lethal doses to kill half of the U.S. population. Westerman’s speech (as prepared): Mr. Speaker, our country is in crisis. The opioid epidemic is taking lives at a staggering rate. In my home state of Arkansas, more than 400 people lost their lives in 2016 and the numbers continue to climb. As we seek solutions to this problem, we must be mindful of how enhancing our border security can stem the flow of opioids into our country. So far this fiscal year, Customs and Border Patrol agents have already seized 984 pounds of fentanyl. That’s enough lethal doses of this synthetic opioid to kill half of the entire U.S. population. Sadly, our current environmental policies prevent the Border Patrol from doing their job. As we consider the multiple aspects of border security, we must keep in mind that it is directly tied to our opioid epidemic. Our Border Patrol not only needs a wall to shut down the drug cartels, it must be provided unhindered access with good roads regardless of the land use category. Smart, scientific streaming of our environmental policies will stop the flow of illegal drugs and save lives. Mr. Speaker, I yield back.
06.25.2018	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 299, the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2017, on Monday (June 25) by a vote of 382-0. The bill, co-sponsored by Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04), included language from Westerman’s H.R. 4843 to extend coverage for children with spina bifida due to a parent’s exposure to Agent Orange. Prior to Monday’s vote, Westerman delivered the following speech urging final passage: Thank you, Chairman Roe and Representative Valadao, for your strong leadership on this issue. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 299, the Blue Water Navy Act. Our nation’s soldiers are told they will receive benefits and coverage through the VA because of their service, but reality shows this has not always been the case, as with Agent Orange. This legislation would correct the issue by providing rightly-earned benefits to the men and women who were exposed to the herbicide Agent Orange during their time of service. Also included in the Blue Water Navy Act is language from my bipartisan bill, H.R. 4843, that provides coverage for children with spina bifida due to a parent’s exposure to Agent Orange. I want to thank Bill Rhodes, a veteran in my district who has advocated tirelessly for his fellow veterans. I think it is pretty cut and dry. If you served America through the Armed Forces, and were exposed to Agent Orange, our grateful country should cover the medical expenses. Our veterans made great sacrifice and they deserve the best benefits and care possible. The Blue Water Navy Act is a great step toward providing these benefits, and I commend Chairman Roe and the Veterans’ Affairs Committee for their work to make this legislation a reality for our veterans. Mr. Speaker, I yield back.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (June 21) upon passage of H.R. 2, commonly referred to as the 2018 Farm Bill: “Today in the House of Representatives, we passed the 2018 Farm Bill,” Westerman said. “This bill included many important items for farmers across the Fourth Congressional District. Three amendments I introduced were passed and added to the farm bill to focus on forest health. One of the most notable changes in this farm bill is adding a work requirement for able-bodied, working-age adults without young children at home who receive SNAP benefits. There is no better anti-poverty program than a job. That is why we introduced this important language that requires work, technical education, or even volunteer service to receive these benefits. As I travel throughout Arkansas, I see a growing economy with record low unemployment and employers eager to hire. For these reasons, I was proud to cast my support for the 2018 Farm Bill.”
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Earlier this week, U.S. Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta announced expanded access to association health plans, or AHPs, for small businesses. Writing in The Wall Street Journal[1], Acosta said, “Association health plans are straightforward: Small businesses, including self-employed workers, may band together by geography or industry to obtain health-care coverage as if they were a single large employer. Before, most of these businesses could purchase health insurance for their employees exclusively through the small-group market. Now business associations—from city chambers of commerce to nationwide industry groups—will be able to offer health-care insurance to members through the large-group market.” He went onto cite the Congressional Budget Office[2], which estimates about four million Americans will enroll in AHPs in coming years, including nearly 400,000 previously uninsured individuals. Reacting to the announcement, Westerman released the following statement: “The Affordable Care Act has been anything but affordable. Small business owners have been among the most impacted, often charged higher rates than their larger competitors,” Westerman said. “The Trump Administration’s plan to level the playing field through association health plans will for the first time bring true bargaining power to the smallest of businesses, opening the door to truly affordable healthcare for employees at businesses of all sizes. I applaud the Trump Administration on the creation of AHPs, a winning solution for Arkansas small business.” [1] https://www.wsj.com/articles/a-health-fix-for-mom-and-pop-shops-1529363643 [2] https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/115th-congress-2017-2018/reports/53826-healthinsurancecoverage.pdf?mod=article_inline
06.18.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with U.S. Representatives Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman, released the following statement after the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced misconduct by a former VA pathologist at the Fayetteville Veterans Affairs Medical Center. “This alleged gross negligence by a physician charged with caring for our veterans is a disturbing revelation and a clear failure to uphold the Department of Veterans Affairs mission to the men and women who served our nation in uniform. The errors and reckless actions of this former VA pathologist put the health of our veterans at risk and will not be tolerated. “Unfortunately, at this time, we don’t know the extent of this doctor’s misconduct. We call on the VA to notify patients whose cases were evaluated by this pathologist to thoroughly and expeditiously review their results so veterans can get the appropriate care they earned. Those impacted deserve nothing less. “Congress has provided the VA with the tools to remove bad actors. Failing to dismiss physicians and any other employees whose work is unsatisfactory does a disservice to our veterans. We are committed to rigorous oversight to protect the men and women who sacrificed and served our country and will hold those who break the law and undermine the mission of the VA accountable.” Veterans who have questions or concerns can call (479) 582-7995 or (866) 388-5428. This call center is staffed by VA nurses specifically to answer questions and address patient concerns about this review process.
06.11.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton along with U.S. Representatives Rick Crawford, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman announced that the Northwest Arkansas Regional Airport and three other Arkansas airports will receive nearly $21 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation to support airport improvements. "Investments in our infrastructure support the long-term growth and development of Arkansas communities. These funds will improve safety while helping foster economic progress,” members said. The airports receiving funding are as follows: Northwest Arkansas Regional Airport will receive $13.6 million to make improvements to the taxiway. Springdale Municipal Airport will receive $2.8 million to improve runway lighting and rehabilitate the runway. Stuttgart Municipal Carl Humphrey Field will receive $996,921 to rehabilitate its runway. Mena Intermountain Municipal will receive $3.4 million to rehabilitate the taxiway.
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Friday (June 8) upon passage of H.R. 5895, the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act: “Since well before I took office, Congress has been in the habit of passing temporary spending bills and massive omnibuses to fund our government,” Westerman said. “The lack of a formal appropriations process has left our federal agencies with a lack of Congressional oversight and fiscal priorities. If we are to get our government’s finances in order and balance the budget, we must return to regular order and pass each appropriations bill. In 2017, the House passed all 12 appropriations bills but saw no action in the Senate. It is my hope that the Senate will take up these bills as the House works to send further consolidated appropriations bills like H.R. 5895, which funds military construction, the VA, our waterway systems and much more. Regular order is the first step out of our government’s fiscal mess.”
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON – The House Subcommittee on Federal Lands today (June 7) heard from Interim Chief Vicki Christiansen at a hearing entitled, “Wildfire Risk, Forest Health, and Associated Management Priorities of the U.S. Forest Service.” During the 115th Congress, the Subcommittee has held several hearings examining the health of National Forest System (NFS) lands, management challenges facing the Forest Service, as well as the extreme wildfire risk present on NFS lands. Protracted environmental reviews, obstructionist litigation and challenges associated with “fire borrowing” were commonly cited as barriers to increasing the pace and scale of active management of NFS lands. The Subcommittee’s legislative work culminated with H.R. 2936, the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017, which passed the House on November 1, 2017. The Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 had several forest management and fire borrowing reform provisions, including more than $20.8 billion in new budgetary authority from FY 2020 to FY 2027 to end fire borrowing, and a new categorical exclusion from National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) review for wildfire resilience projects. With the enactment of a fire funding fix, Congress must now exercise its oversight authority to ensure the Forest Service is stepping up to address management priorities that have long been neglected. Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04), interim vice chair of the subcommittee, delivered the following opening remarks (full video available here; video of Westerman’s remarks begin at 26:15): Thank you, Chairman McClintock, and thank you interim Chief Christensen for being with us this afternoon. Today the subcommittee meets to examine the steps Forest Service leadership will be taking to aggressively implement new and existing management tools provided by Congress. Three years ago, then-Forest Service Chief Tidwell indicated that nearly 58 million acres of Forest Service land were at significant risk for severe wildfire. Fast forward to 2018 and that number has only increased. This is a result of decades of neglect and mismanagement. I’ve stated many times before that we’re loving our trees to death. Ladies and Gentlemen, that death toll will continue to grow – and as a result, the number of acres burned and unfortunately, the amount of property and even lives lost will likely continue to grow even with taking aggressive steps to address the millions of acres of overcrowded, insect and disease-infested timber owned by the Federal Government. But the sooner those steps are taken and the more aggressive they are, the quicker we’ll turn the tide on this self-induced environmental malfeasance. This committee has repeatedly heard from the Forest Service about the variety of reasons barring scientific management of our nation’s forests. From obstructionist litigation, to lengthy NEPA reviews, to budgetary constraints and fire borrowing, all were commonly cited as explanation for the underwhelming response to the growing issue of wildfire. Now, the 115th Congress has taken some valuable steps to address the impediments to active management. Not only did Congress allocate nearly $20 billion dollars of additional budgetary authority over the next ten years, but also included both a brand new categorical exclusion to specifically address wildfire risk, and increased the stewardship contracting ceiling to better allow the Forest Service to partner with state, local, and Tribal entities in active management. Further, if the Senate would wake up, they would notice that my bill, H.R. 2936, The Resilient Federal Forestry Act passed the House with bipartisan support and includes several additional management reforms critical to protecting the long-term viability of our nation’s forests. Folks, Congress in a bipartisan effort has addressed fire borrowing. We have enhanced and empowered state and local collaboration. We have provided the Forest Service with the tools it needs to aggressively treat for wildfire and disease. My question today is this: with these changes, what is the Forest Service going to do? This crisis is decades in the making. It will take decades of sound management to restore our forests to good health. Over this window of potential progress, we will undoubtedly witness additional years of catastrophic wildfire. This year is no exception – as I speak, there are 17 major wildfires burning in 9 different states. To date, over 1.75 million acres have burned nationwide, already eclipsing the numbers burned in all of 2016. It is because of these fires, and the ones to come, that I speak with such a sense of urgency. We must examine today specific steps the Forest Service will take to address catastrophic wildfires. I am also keenly interested in how Forest Service leadership plans on reporting back on its progress. Transparent, detailed explanation of the specific actions taken to manage and treat diseased and overcrowded acres will be necessary to demonstrate to the American people our efforts to reverse the years and years of neglect. With the right leadership, and robust implementation, I am confident that the Forest Service can use the tools we have provided to roll back the clock on mismanagement of our nation’s forests. If we ensure that every authority, every management dollar is efficiently and effectively used to treat for wildfire, we will have success. The ball is in the Forest Service’s court – Congress has provided budget authority and management options. I am eager to hear today’s testimony, and am excited to learn about the steps being taken to address catastrophic wildfire. Thank you, I yield back.
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement upon passage of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) on Wednesday (June 6): “Yesterday’s vote is good for communities along the Arkansas River and the entire Fourth Congressional District," Westerman said. "The Water Resources Development Act reauthorizes investment in our inland waterways system, which is vital to our state’s economy. This legislation includes important language which would expedite the completion of the study for the Three Rivers project, essential to keeping commerce flowing through the MKARNS system. I will continue to fight for Arkansas infrastructure with my colleagues on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and look forward to the work which lies ahead.”
06.05.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04), along with a bipartisan group of colleagues, introduced legislation Tuesday (June 5) that would eliminate federal sentences of life without the possibility of release for child offenders. The bill – co-sponsored by Democrats Karen Bass (CA-37), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), and Republican Lynn Jenkins (KS-02) – ensures that a child convicted of a serious crime in federal court is given the opportunity to have the sentence reviewed by a parole board after serving 20 years, demonstrating rehabilitation as one condition of potential release. At present, 20 states and Washington, D.C., have passed similar legislation to ensure children convicted of serious crimes have the opportunity to receive a review by a judge or parole board to determine whether a release is warranted. Arkansas is one of those states. The U.S. Supreme Court has also ruled that children are constitutionally different from adults and should not be subject to the nation’s harshest punishments. “This legislation does not guarantee release. Instead, it provides the opportunity for a rehabilitated individual whose crime was committed in his or her youth and who has served a minimum of 20 years to have a sentence reviewed by a judge to determine whether a second chance is merited,” Westerman said. “I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for joining with me in this effort to provide the opportunity for a second chance for individuals who strayed from the law during adolescence.”
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (May 24) upon passage of the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): "The world is a dangerous place and threats abound," Westerman said. "That is why our nation needs a strong military prepared to defend the United States against all enemies. For this reason, I voted for the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act. It funds our national defense at higher levels in order for the military to adapt to 21st Century warfare. This legislation also authorizes the largest pay raise for the armed forces in nearly a decade. I am proud to support our military and to have voted for the NDAA."
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON – Yesterday (May 23), Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) introduced H.R. 5923, a bill which would facilitate an exchange of land between Walnut Grove Church in Jessieville and the U.S. Forest Service. The church and an adjacent cemetery currently sit on 4 acres of Forest Service land. This bill transfers the ownership of that land to the church, and in return, gives the Forest Service 6.3 acres of land adjacent to the Ouachita National Forest owned by the congregation. “I introduced this bill to finally give Walnut Grove Church the ownership of the property on which its members worship,” Westerman said. “The church has been a longtime tenant of the Forest Service and has sought a resolution to this issue for more than 20 years. The fact that it takes an act of Congress to exchange such small parcels of land simply illustrates how broken the federal government is. I support the church’s efforts and look forward to the timely passage of this bill.”
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (May 22) upon passage of S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act: “This bipartisan bill’s passage is a step forward for Arkansas small businesses and families that rely on access to a variety of banking services in their everyday lives,” Westerman said. “When the Financial Crisis of 2008 came to a head, it was not caused by the financial mismanagement by small community banks that at the time were found across Arkansas. It was the big Wall Street banks that brought the financial system to its knees, yet the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act handed down a one size fits all fix for banks large and small. The result has been consolidation or closure of community banks across Arkansas as they struggle to keep up with regulatory requirements that punish community banks who did nothing wrong. Arkansans have been hurt as access to lending and basic banking services have tightened or disappeared from small communities all together. I thank my colleagues in the House and Senate for passing this bipartisan legislation and I look forward to the president signing this bill into law.”
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) testified before the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs on Wednesday (May 16). In his testimony, Westerman discussed his legislation, H.R. 4843, which modifies the presumption of service connection for veterans who were exposed to herbicide agents while serving in the Armed Forces in Thailand during the Vietnam War. Last Tuesday (May 8), the Committee marked up H.R. 299, the Blue Water Navy Act, which included language from Westerman’s bill which provides coverage for children with Spina Bifida whose parents served in Thailand during the Vietnam War. Westerman’s testimony (as prepared): Chairman Roe, Ranking Member Walz, I would like to thank you for hosting today’s bipartisan Member Speaking Day. It is an honor to speak on behalf of veterans in Arkansas Fourth District, and I appreciate this opportunity. Today I would like to discuss my legislation, H.R. 4843, which modifies the presumption of service connection for veterans who were exposed to herbicide agents while serving in the Armed Forces in Thailand during the Vietnam War. Currently, VA statutes and regulations do not automatically recognize veteran exposure to herbicides while serving in Thailand. My bill would provide veterans greater equity with respect to herbicide exposure and the presumptive diseases associated with these chemicals. Included in this Committee’s markup of the Blue Water Navy Act last week was language from my bill that provides coverage for children with Spina Bifida. I would like to thank you for including this crucial language. The Blue Water Navy Act is a great first step to provide veterans and their families with the coverage, care, and benefits they earned and deserve. But, there is still a lot of work to be done. I think it is pretty cut and dry. If you served America through the Armed Forces, and were exposed to herbicides, our country owes you a debt to cover those medical expenses. Soldiers are told they will receive benefits and care through the VA because of their service, but the reality is that many of these benefits have limits and exclusions. Too often, veterans don’t get what they have been promised. These men and women made great sacrifices to protect our country, and they deserve the best care and benefits possible. Thank you again for this opportunity to speak, and I look forward to working together to help our nation’s veterans.
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement upon passing Tuesday (May 8) of S.J.Res. 57, a bill providing for congressional disapproval of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection relating to “Indirect Auto Lending and Compliance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act”: “Actions by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau have done everything but protect the consumer,” Westerman said. “The result has been more expensive financial products and less protection for consumers. The CFPB has not only overreached but has violated federal law through its actions. Today’s action by Congress protects car shoppers from a power-hungry federal agency bent on expanding the size of government, limiting consumer choice, and inflating the price of car loans.”
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Friday upon passage of H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018: “This five-year reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration modernizes our nation’s skies by cutting red tape and encouraging improved productivity and innovation in aviation technology,” Westerman said. “The result will be a safer, better flying experience for the American public which will allow us to remain the world leader in aviation. With my colleagues on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, we have not only crafted a bill that improves the nation’s skies, but also protects Americans from future disasters – both man-made and natural. The reforms to FEMA encourage preparation through strengthened building codes and hazard mitigation while at the same time allowing for quicker recovery through faster post-disaster inspections of structures. This bill is a victory for the American people and I was proud to support this important legislation.” Westerman introduced an amendment to H.R. 4, along with Democratic Congressman Dan Lipinski of Illinois, which was approved by the House. In accordance with the Brooks Act, Amendment No. 6 would apply Qualifications-Based Selection (QBS) standards to any airport development project that uses federal grant funds for construction. Amendment No. 6 clarifies existing rules to ensure that airports follow a uniform QBS process for procuring architecture, engineering and design services on airport projects that utilize Airport Improvement Program (AIP) funds. Originally codified in 1972 and subsequently applied to AIP funds in 1987, QBS is an open, competitive procurement process where firms first compete on the basis of qualifications, past experience, and the specific expertise they can bring to a project. According to the American Council of Engineering Companies, Airport Consultants Council, and four other construction design organizations that endorsed this amendment, “The simple, straightforward provision will maximize quality, promote technical innovation, and safeguard taxpayer dollars on federally funded airport projects.”
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON – Junior Malik Barnes of the Arkansas School for Mathematics, Sciences and the Arts in Hot Springs attended today’s address to a Joint Session of Congress by French President Emmanuel Macron. Barnes, a native of West Memphis, Arkansas, is in Washington as part of the Greater Hot Springs Chamber of Commerce’s fly-in event. The annual fly-in gives leaders in the Hot Springs community the opportunity to meet one-on-one with leaders in the federal government and business to discuss issues of importance to the Garland County region. “Words can't explain how honored I am to watch history unfold before my very eyes,” Barnes said prior to the speech. “I am very appreciative of this special invitation from Congressman Westerman, and I look forward to hearing President Macron’s remarks in person.” “ASMSA is honored that Congressman Westerman would extend this special opportunity to Malik,” said ASMSA Director Corey Alderdice. “Our school believes in creating opportunities for students to engage with business and civic leaders. We invest in experiences for students such as the D.C. Fly-In so that they may embrace their roles as full participants in discussions on topics of both local and national importance.” “The students of ASMSA are among the best and brightest in America,” Westerman said. “Each opportunity to engage with them is special and this week has been no different. I hope Malik’s experience in Washington – seeing President Macron address a Joint Session of Congress – impresses upon him America’s unique place in the world.”
04.24.2018	WASHINGTON – On Monday (April 23), the Environmental Protection Agency declared forest biomass energy as carbon neutral, effective immediately. Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04), the only licensed forester in Congress, issued the following statement Tuesday (April 24) in response to the EPA declaration. “The EPA’s declaration that forest biomass energy is carbon neutral confirms what we in forestry have long known,” Westerman said. “Trees are a renewable resource and properly managed forests can provide clean energy for decades to come. Simply put, this move by the EPA is a victory for Arkansas forests and the industries that rely upon our number one renewable resource. I thank Administrator Pruitt and the staff at EPA for listening to science instead of activists and recognizing the role forest biomass can contribute to American energy policy.” In Arkansas, the state sees significantly more growth each year than the volume of trees harvested. Forest biomass energy and other markets are served by the growing number of Arkansas trees available for harvest each year.
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) and U.S. Representatives Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03), and Bruce Westerman (AR-04) announced more than $48 million in federal funding was approved for Arkansas to rebuild and repair roads and critical infrastructure damaged from heavy rains and floods. “These funds are critical to assist in the rebuilding and construction of roadways damaged by abnormally high amounts of rainfall and other effects of severe weather. Restoring our transportation infrastructure and other related facilities comes at a tremendous cost to our communities. These grants will assist in decreasing the burden placed on local, county and state governments,” Boozman said. “Last year's flooding caused millions of dollars in damage to our state's roads and bridges, and nearly a year later much repair work remains to be done. These grants will be vital to the recovery effort, and it's good to see the people of Arkansas get the federal assistance they need,” Cotton said. “As Arkansans recover from unprecedented flooding, this grant will ensure their communities can be restored. Grants like these not only help communities become functional again but help remove financial stress put on local government,” Crawford said. “The last few years of abnormally severe weather conditions have had a substantial impact on communities throughout Arkansans. These grants are critical to assisting our local recovery efforts and will help facilitate the repair of our most vital infrastructure,” Hill said. “In recent years, Arkansas has been hit by a wave of severe weather and flooding events, and the northwest corner of the state I represent in Congress is no exception. These storms caused severe damage to federal-aid highways, roads on Federal lands and Federal Lands Management Agencies transportation facilities that still require repair. The funding from the Department of Transportation will be put to good use in the Natural State,” Womack said. “The floods of 2017 were devastating to the Fourth Congressional District, leaving millions of dollars in damage and scars that will not easily heal. As the recovery effort continues, these grants will help local governments replace necessary infrastructure,” Westerman said. The following organizations were awarded Department of Transportation grants to repair, reconstruct and rebuild roads and facilities in Arkansas: Arkansas State Highway and Transportation Department: $40 million National Park Service: $41,490 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers: $5 million U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service: $715, 226 U.S. Forest Service: $3.165 million The following counties were approved for disaster assistance last year; Baxter, Benton, Boone, Carroll, Clay, Cleburne, Conway, Craighead, Cross, Faulkner, Independence, Izard, Jackson, Lawrence, Madison, Marion, Mississippi, Montgomery, Newton, Ouachita, Perry, Poinsett, Prairie, Randolph, Saline, Washington, White and Woodruff Counties. Over the last several years, Arkansas has experienced several rounds of adverse weather that dramatically affected many communities across the state. Governor Asa Hutchinson issued disaster declarations for 36 counties and two cities in May 2017 after severe weather conditions resulted in widespread damage to many areas. He had previously designated 17 counties as disaster areas in 2015 following severe storms, flooding and tornadoes.
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON – In the U.S. House of Representatives Thursday (April 12), Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) paid tribute to Hot Springs native Sergeant Jack Coleman Cook, who gave his life in order to save his crewmate after their plane went down in the frigid North Sea following a bombing raid over Berlin on February 3, 1945. Watching from the gallery as Westerman honored Cook was the man he saved, Navigator Edward Field of New York. Both were members of the 384th Bomb Group of the U.S. Army Air Forces. Cook was a newlywed at the time of his death and had no children. He is buried in Greenwood Cemetery in Hot Springs. His wife, Lucille Hutzell Cook Harmon, died March 25, 2011, in Beebe after remarrying. The congressman’s office has been unable to locate any relatives of Jack Coleman Cook prior to Thursday’s speech. The full speech, as delivered, is below. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Sergeant Jack Coleman Cook of Hot Springs, Arkansas, for his heroic actions in World War II. Sergeant Cook was a ball turret gunner on a B-17 Flying Fortress, named the “Challenger.” On February 3, 1945, the 384th Bomb Group participated in a mission over Berlin. During the mission, the Challenger was hit by flak, damaging multiple engines, gas tanks, and the fuselage, but left the crew unharmed. On the return journey home, the plane began losing altitude and crash-landed in the frigid North Sea. The crewmembers abandoned the aircraft and boarded two life rafts, but became separated. Navigator Edward Field, a crew member who stayed in the water, began to push his raft toward the other raft, but became numb, and said that he could no longer hold on. Sergeant Cook got into the water so the crew’s navigator could get out of the cold sea and take his spot in the raft. The sergeant then swam for forty-five minutes until they reached the second raft. Shortly afterward, Air-Sea rescue located the crew, but Sergeant Cook had little life left in him, and he passed away on the boat. It is with great gratitude and respect that I honor Jack Coleman Cook. Sergeant Cook is a true American hero. He selflessly gave his life for his fellow man, and for this, we remember him more than seventy years later. Mr. Speaker, I yield back.
04.11.2018	“Since the passage of Dodd-Frank, local banks that had nothing to do with the 2008 Financial Crisis have been treated the same as the most egregious actors that brought our financial system to its knees,” Westerman said. "The result has increased costs for consumers, forced consolidation of community banks, and thousands upon thousands of pages expanding federal regulations. Dodd-Frank has done nothing to prevent another collapse. It has instead reduced choice for consumers and made too-big-to-fail banks even larger. These bills will benefit consumers through regulatory relief for Main Street.” Congressional Research Service summaries of each bill: H.R. 4061, Financial Stability Oversight Council Improvement Act of 2017: This bill amends the Financial Stability Act of 2010 to require the Financial Stability Oversight Council, in determining whether a nonbank financial company shall be designated as systematically important and consequently be supervised by the Federal Reserve Board and subject to prudential standards, to consider the appropriateness of imposing such standards as opposed to other forms of regulation to mitigate identified risks to U.S. financial stability. Every five years, the council must, upon request by a nonbank financial company, reevaluate such a determination and hold a vote on whether to rescind it. H.R. 4293, Stress Test Improvement Act of 2017: “This bill amends the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to modify testing requirements applicable to bank holding companies and certain nonbank financial companies.”
04.10.2018	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives passed two bills Tuesday (March 10) which would enhance penalties on those who are convicted of online harassment and step up regulations and enforcement in an effort to end money laundering and the financing of terrorism tied to sex trafficking. Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage of the bills: “Since my time representing Garland County in the Arkansas General Assembly, I have fought to strengthen our laws and stop human trafficking,” Westerman said. “In the years since, state laws have been strengthened while the federal government has lagged behind. Today’s votes on H.R. 4203 and H.R. 2219 move the U.S. in the right direction as we seek to combat human trafficking within our borders and abroad.” Brief bill summaries, sourced from Bloomberg Government: H.R. 2219, End Banking for Human Traffickers Act of 2017: “The bill would require federal agencies to review and enhance programs to curb money laundering and terrorism financing related to sex trafficking and forced labor.” H.R. 4203, Combat Online Predators Act: “Maximum federal prison sentences for stalking a minor younger than 18 would be increased by five years under H.R. 4203. The current maximum sentence for stalking is generally five years. Longer sentences, including for life, can be imposed if the stalking results in death or injury.”
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) and U.S. Representatives Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03) and Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following joint statement on the termination of the Department of Energy’s (DOE) partnership with Clean Line Energy Partners for development of the Plains and Eastern Clean Line Project: “This is a victory for states’ rights and a victory for Arkansas. We are pleased that the Department of Energy responded favorably to our request to terminate this agreement. We support policies that put our nation on the path to energy independence, but they should not cost Arkansas landowners a voice in the approval process.” Earlier this year, members sent a letter DOE Secretary Rick Perry urging him to pause or terminate the Project. This follows additional effortspressing the Secretary to preserve states’ rights. The Arkansas Congressional Delegation has fought against this federal overreach by introducing the Assuring Private Property Rights Over Vast Access to Lands (APPROVAL) Act, for the past two Congresses. This legislation would restore states’ rights. It would require the DOE to obtain the approval of both the governor and the state’s public service commission before exercising the federal power of eminent domain to acquire property for Section 1222 transmission projects.
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (March 7) upon passage of H.R. 1917, the Blocking Regulatory Interference from Closing Kilns (BRICK) Act: “Manufacturing has historically been key to the middle class in America,” Westerman said. “Unfortunately, job-killing regulation has placed the American dream at risk in the last decade. That is why I joined with my colleagues today to protect jobs like those at ACME Brick in Clarksville and Malvern. The Blocking Regulatory Interference from Closing Kilns Act reigns in an overzealous EPA and protects jobs from burdensome regulations. We must continue to unbind the ties that bind if we are to unleash economic prosperity across the United States. This bill is an important step in that direction.”
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) introduced H.R. 5170, the Federal Lands Investment Partnership (FLIP) Act, on Monday (March 5). “From Hot Springs to Yosemite, the National Parks Service and other federal agencies have projects that require immediate maintenance but have not received the attention they deserve,” Westerman said. “The FLIP Act is a common-sense modernization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). Its enactment would better serve the needs of individual states and return LWCF to its original intent of preserving and ensuring public access to public lands. By directing federal funding toward reducing our Federal Lands infrastructure maintenance backlog, we ensure our public lands will be available for enjoyment for decades to come.” The FLIP Act permanently ensures that 25% of LWCF appropriations is directed toward the States; The FLIP Act allocates an additional 40% to various federal programs, 75% of which will be directed toward conducting deferred maintenance projects, critical infrastructure projects, clean-up efforts, and more; Directs 15% of LWCF funding to promote offshore energy exploration, innovation, and education. Creates a pilot program to improve federal permit coordination on the outer confinement shelf, and directs funding towards higher education grants.
03.05.2018	WASHINGTON – Senators Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) and John Boozman (R-Arkansas), and Congressmen Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03), and Bruce Westerman (AR-04) today released the following statement applauding CMS’s approval of work requirements for Arkansas’s Medicaid program: “Encouraging people who can work to find employment is a common-sense policy with a track record of success. It not only focuses Medicaid dollars on those who need it most; it also helps people get back into the workforce and move up the income ladder. We’re glad to see Governor Hutchinson pursue a reform for which we’ve long advocated, and we applaud the Trump administration for approving our state’s new policy.”
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (February 15) upon passage of H.R. 620, the ADA Education and Reform Act of 2017: “Disabled individuals across America have rights to accommodation, but small businesses are often uneducated on those rights and how to comply with the law,” Westerman said. “The ADA Education and Reform Act enhances education for businesses and gives owners opportunities to correct accessibility issues before facing legal action. In the short term, this bill creates a framework for businesses to correct deficiencies. In the long term, it creates a more accessible world for all Americans. I was proud to co-sponsor this legislation.”
02.13.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (February 13) upon passage of H.R. 3397, the Building Blocks of STEM Act: “Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics play important roles in today’s economy, and our education system should prepare young people for careers in these fields,” Westerman said. “This bipartisan bill promotes STEM education for female students under the age of 10. Grants funded as a result of this bill would support the development of STEM curriculum by institutions and non-profit organizations partnering with local schools. Along with encouraging STEM programs in our schools, these grants will give young women additional tools to compete in the 21st Century economy.”
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON – On Saturday, February 3, 2018, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Chairman Bruce Westerman (R-AR) and House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) visited the U.S. border with Mexico for an update on the nation’s border security. “The security of the United States is our utmost priority,” said Westerman. “Unfortunately, bureaucrats in Washington have made securing our southern border unnecessarily difficult, if not impossible. Environmental rules and regulations are ignored by drug smugglers, human traffickers, and others intent on harming Americans. Illegal border crossings through federally owned lands destroys vital endangered species’ habitat, increases erosion, and leaves behind mountains of trash and debris. Ironically, the very same burdensome regulations prevent the U.S. Border Patrol from executing its mission: stopping illegal crossings of our border. This visit was eye opening and will inform my work on the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations going forward.” “Our Border Patrol agents need access to federal lands in order to do their jobs. Under the status quo, that access is being denied,” Bishop stated. “It is unacceptable when it can take months for federal law enforcement to get permission to fill cross-border drug tunnels or to repair an access route to apprehend human traffickers.”
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 772, the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act: “Over much of the last decade, there has been a ‘big brother knows best’ approach to regulation,” Westerman said. “From the investments we make to the snacks we eat, the federal government has loomed over nearly all aspects of our daily lives. In the last year, Congress has worked with the Trump Administration to roll back the most burdensome, egregious regulations. Today’s vote for the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act is an important step in that direction.” According to Bloomberg Government, the bill would: Direct the Food and Drug Administration to reissue its menu labeling rules that require chain restaurants and retail food establishments with 20 or more locations to provide calorie and nutrition information for standard menu items; Require the FDA to issue new rules for displaying nutrition information within one year of enactment and specify a compliance date; and Bar states from petitioning the FDA to allow for different labeling requirements than those established by the bill. ​​H.R. 772 passed by a vote of 266 Yeas, 157 Nays, 1 Present.
02.05.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Monday (February 5) upon passage of H.R. 2646, a bill to reauthorize the United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015: “The defense alliance between America and Jordan protects U.S. interests in an important region of the world,” Westerman said. “I have seen first-hand the difficult security situation Jordan faces with conflicts just over its border. We must continue to stand with King Abdullah and the people of Jordan, offering assistance when necessary to strengthen our relationship and provide stability in a volatile region of the world.”
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (January 30) following President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union address: “Tonight, President Trump brought us a message of American strength,” Westerman said. “He relayed a message of economic strength and American exceptionalism. As the recently passed tax relief package proves, the President is committed to conservative principles that will improve the economy, add jobs, and put more money in the pocket of hardworking Americans. I was encouraged by his message tonight and have been impressed with his leadership on important issues. As he noted tonight, the coming years bring challenges but Americans do best when the stakes are high.”
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) and a bipartisan group of House members introduced a bill to modify the presumption of service connection for veterans exposed to herbicides while serving in Thailand on Thursday (January 18). The bill would give veterans who served in Thailand during the Vietnam War era the opportunity to prove exposure to herbicide agents like Agent Orange and receive Veterans Administration benefits for service-related health problems. Currently, many veterans who served in Thailand are not entitled to such benefits on the basis of Agent Orange exposure. “When a veteran serves our nation, they earn the respect of a grateful people and should receive treatment and long-term benefits for illness or injuries incurred in the line of duty,” Westerman said. “I have heard from veterans in my district who believe they were exposed to herbicides like Agent Orange while serving in Thailand during the Vietnam era, but have not received VA disability benefits for their illness. This bill gives them the opportunity to make their case and receive the benefits they have earned and deserve. This is the right thing to do for the brave Americans who served our country during the Vietnam conflict.” “The valorous Americans who served our country deserve the health benefits that they were promised and have more than earned,” said co-sponsor Jimmy Panetta (CA-20). “I am proud to work on this bipartisan and bicameral legislation that would help ensure that veterans exposed to Agent Orange while serving in Thailand are able to receive the health benefits that they need and deserve. This bill will help fulfill the commitment that our country made to those men and women who served.” “Thousands of Mainers and millions of Americans served and sacrificed for our Nation during the Vietnam War,” co-sponsor Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) said. “In addition to battling a gruesome war, many were also exposed to chemicals that have resulted in long term illnesses, cancers, and birth defects for their children. It is long overdue to give those who are suffering from these ailments—and their children--the support and compensation they deserve. This is an important and commonsense bill for our Veterans that extends the same benefits that we give those that were exposed to these dangerous chemicals in Vietnam and Korea, to their fellow Veterans that served in Thailand and exposed to the same chemicals. As a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I am honored to join my colleagues in introducing this important and long overdue piece of legislation.” “Our veterans deserve far better treatment than what they currently receive, and this bill is a step towards closing that gap," co-sponsor Jacky Rosen (NV-03) said. "This bill will help Vietnam-era veterans who were based in Thailand receive special consideration in their treatments after being exposed to herbicides in those regions. This bipartisan bill represents our nation’s commitment to improving veterans’ health coverage and I am proud to support this measure. ” “If a veteran at any time during their service was exposed to herbicide agents and is now suffering because of that exposure, they deserve VA benefits,” said co-sponsor Scott Tipton (CO-03). “Unfortunately, current law based on arbitrary specifications dictates that veterans serving at military bases in Thailand during the Vietnam War do not qualify for these benefits, despite a report proving that dangerous herbicides were in fact used in that area. Our nation’s veterans deserve better. I am glad to support legislation that will allow them the opportunity to prove their exposure, so that they can finally receive the benefits owed to them.” This bill covers veterans of the Armed Forces who served in Thailand from February 28, 1961, to May 7, 1975, regardless of assigned duties at the time. Children diagnosed with Spina Bifida whose parents were exposed to Agent Orange during service in the Armed Forces in Thailand during this period would also be able to receive covered benefits. In addition to Reps. Westerman, Panetta, Poliquin, Rosen, and Tipton, the bill is also co-sponsored by Rep. Stephanie Murphy (FL-07). A Senate version of this bill, S. 2105, was introduced by Senator John Boozman (R-AR) on November 8, 2017. Co-sponsors include Democratic Senators Joe Donnelly (IN) Robert Menendez (NJ), Jeff Merkley (OR), Chris Van Hollen (MD), Elizabeth Warren (MA), and Republican Senator Dean Heller (NV).
01.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (January 16) upon unanimous passage of H.R. 4318, the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill Act: “Manufacturing was the key to the American dream during the 20th Century,” Westerman said. “To restore American manufacturing and again make the American dream achievable in the 21st Century, we must create a climate that promotes job creation and gives businesses the tools necessary to be competitive in the global economy. Passage of the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill Act allows manufacturers to obtain materials unavailable in the United States without having to pay tariffs. This gives manufacturers access to the world commodities market while creating jobs here at home. This bill is truly a win/win for the Fourth Congressional District of Arkansas and its workers.”
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (December 19) upon House passage of the conference report on H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Tax relief for hardworking Americans is long overdue,” Westerman said. “Passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will benefit Arkansas families by nearly doubling the standard deduction, doubling the child tax credit, and maintaining tax credits for parents who adopt. It will benefit entrepreneurs by lowering taxes on small businesses and maintaining the federal Historic Tax Credit for the rehabilitation of older, historic buildings. This legislation will put money back in the pockets of Arkansans, drive economic development on Main Streets across the Fourth Congressional District, and support families. For the first time in a generation, the American people will see real, tangible tax relief – something I was proud to deliver for the people of the Fourth District.” According to the Tax Foundation, the following provisions are included in the final version of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act:[i] “Increases the standard deduction to $12,000 for single filers, $18,000 for heads of household, and $24,000 for joint filers, while eliminating the additional standard deduction and the personal exemption. Provisions sunset at the end of 2025.” “Increases the child tax credit to $2,000. Of this, $1,400 would be refundable, with the refundable portion indexed to inflation. All dependents ineligible for the child tax credit are eligible for a new $500 per-person family tax credit. Provisions begin to phase out at $400,000 ($200,000 for single filers). Social Security Numbers required for portions of the above. All provisions sunset at the end of 2025.” “Adopts a 20 percent deduction for pass-through income, limited to the greater of (a) 50 percent of wage income or (b) 25 percent of wage income plus 2.5 percent of the cost of tangible depreciable property for qualifying businesses, including publicly traded partnerships but not including certain service providers. Limitations (both caps and exclusions) do not apply for those with incomes below $315,000 (joint), and phase out over a $100,000 range.” [i] https://taxfoundation.org/conference-report-tax-cuts-and-jobs-act/
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (December 14) upon passage of H.R. 1638, the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act, and H.R. 4324, the Strengthening Oversight of Iran's Access to Finance Act: “Iran’s government and political leaders have long been involved in financial dealings which have sidestepped Western sanctions in order to pad the pockets of the Iran’s elite,” Westerman said. “Passage of bills requiring transparency regarding the financial activities of Iran and its leaders is paramount if we are to ensure compliance with current sanctions.” The following are bill summaries, courtesy of Bloomberg Government: H.R. 1638: The Treasury Department would be required to report to Congress about the total assets held by Iran’s most senior political, religious, and military leaders, under H.R. 1638. Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, and supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, are among those whose funds and assets would have to be disclosed in the report. The report would also cover the assets of commanders and deputy commanders of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and its branches, members of the Council of Guardians, the minister of intelligence and security, and the head of the Atomic Energy Organization in Iran. H.R. 4324: The Treasury Department would be required to submit a report to Congress on authorized commercial passenger aircraft sales to Iran under H.R. 4324. U.S. sanctions prevented Iran from replacing old aircraft, which have become outdated and unsafe. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) -- the formal name for the Iran nuclear deal -- committed the U.S. to resume licensing new commercial aircraft sales to Iran for civilian use. The measure would require the Treasury Department to notify Congress of the sales and certify that they don’t violate any existing sanctions.
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (December 7) in support of H.Con.Res. 90, condemning ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya and calling for an end to the attacks in and an immediate restoration of humanitarian access to the state of Rakhine in Burma. The concurrent resolution passed the House Wednesday (December 6). “No group should ever be targeted for elimination based on their religious beliefs,” Westerman said. “America must speak with a loud, unified voice and say the targeting of civilians by Burmese security forces is immoral and unjust. This resolution is direct - Burmese Commander-in-Chief Min Aung Hlaing must end attacks on civilians in the state of Rakhine. I pray for those caught in this violence and those seeking refuge in neighboring Bangladesh.”
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (December 6) upon passage of H.R. 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017: “When you received your driver’s license, there were no restrictions for driving in another state,” Westerman said. “Your driver’s license allows you to drive in any other state or territory because you passed a written test and a driving test administered by the state of Arkansas. Just as your driver’s license ensures the right to drive in other states, a concealed carry permit should also grant the right to lawfully carry in any other state without the threat of prosecution. Shaneen Allen, a 27-year-old from Philadelphia who was twice robbed and beaten, obtained her Pennsylvania concealed carry. But she was stopped in New Jersey and faced five years in prison because she was carrying. This should not have happened and the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act will prevent it in the future. This common-sense legislation is supported by a variety of groups, including the National Rifle Association, National Gun Owners Association, and 73 percent of Americans. I was proud to support national concealed carry reciprocity and I will continue to stand for the 2nd Amendment in Congress.” In reporting the bill, the Committee on the Judiciary included H.R. 4477, the Fix NCIS Act of 2017, sponsored by Texas Republican Congressman John Culberson. His office reports the bill would: Provide accountability for federal departments and agencies; Reauthorize the NICS Act Record Improvement Program (NARIP), the only federal grant program for states that is focused exclusively on helping them upload records to NICS (National Instant Background Check System); Reauthorize the National Criminal History Improvement Program (NCHIP), which currently provides funds to States for upload criminal records to all relevant databases, not just NICS; and Improve information sharing with states.
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON – The House Committee on Natural Resources passed H.R. 3979 – the Keep America’s Refuges Operational Act – on Thursday (November 30). The bill, co-sponsored by Congressman Bruce Westerman, would “reauthorize the volunteer services, community partnership, and refuge education programs of the National Wildlife Refuge System.” The bipartisan bill, introduced by primary sponsor Congressman Hakeem Jeffries of New York, is co-sponsored by five Democrats and 12 Republicans. “This bill allows volunteers in our communities to serve their fellow man and improve our nation’s wildlife refuges,” Westerman said. “Groups like Friends of Holla Bend National Wildlife Refuge in Yell County have played an important role in their local NWR and it is vital for our refuges that local groups continue to have the ability to provide volunteer services at no cost to taxpayers. I look forward to this bill’s quick passage in the House.”
11.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (November 28) upon passage of H.R. 2228, the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017: “The job of a law enforcement officer is taxing both physically and mentally,” Westerman said. “Passage of the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act gives the Justice Department the ability to grant funds to state and local police departments for mental health pilot programs at law enforcement agencies. I was proud to vote for this important bill and support the men and women in blue.”
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage Thursday (November 16) of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Today, the House of Representatives passed tax relief for hardworking Americans,” Westerman said. “This legislation is exactly what the American people have asked for – lower and simpler taxes. For the nearly 80 percent of Americans earning up to $50,000 who claim the standard deduction, that amount will double putting more money in bank accounts. That is more money available for a child’s college tuition, car repairs, home renovations, or simply shoring up savings. We do this while closing loopholes and encouraging businesses to return investment to American shores, creating jobs and providing more opportunity for all. Now it is the Senate’s job to pass this bill and put real tax relief on the President’s desk.” The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (according to the House Committee on Ways and Means): Lowers tax rates for everyday Americans; Increases the standard tax deduction; Eliminates special-interest deductions and closes loopholes; Repeals the death tax; Reduces the tax rate on job creators; Stops American jobs from moving overseas; and Preserves the home mortgage interest deduction. A study from the Tax Foundation said the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act would create 7,556 new full-time jobs in Arkansas and increase median household incomes in the Natural State by $1,744 per year.
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) on Wednesday (November 15) re-introduced the bipartisan Geospatial Data Act (H.R. 4395). The bill, co-sponsored by Congressman Seth Moulton (MA-06), would prevent duplicative data purchases by federal agencies and modernize the collection of said data, which would save an untold amount of the American taxpayers’ money. “Technology is advancing at a rapid rate. Advances in geospatial technology have revolutionized transportation, forestry, and an ever-growing list of other industries,” Westerman said. “The benefits of geospatial technology are truly untold. Our federal agencies use geospatial data, but often different agencies acquire duplicative information and waste precious taxpayer resources in the process. After hearing feedback from industry leaders, the Geospatial Data Act was re-introduced today to streamline the collection of this data across the federal government. This bill will save money, improve information accuracy, and provide a more modern system for collecting and sharing geospatial data.” "The Geospatial Data Act will save taxpayer dollars, increase government efficiency, and unlock innovation in the public and private sectors," Moulton said. "It is time to bring government into the 21st Century. I am proud to be part of this bipartisan effort that embraces new and innovative ways to use and share data.” This legislation is supported by the American Association of Geographers (AAG), American Geosciences Institute (AGI), Association of Research Libraries (ARL), Cartography and Geographic Information Society (CaGIS), GIS Certification Institute (GISCI), Geographic and Land Information Society (GLIS), Google, Tesla, United States Geospatial Intelligence Foundation (USGIF), University Consortium for Geographic Information Science (UCGIS), Urban and Regional Information Systems Association (URISA), and Women in GIS (WiGIS). CRS Summary (.pdf) The legislation intended as a substitute for the Geospatial Data Act of 2017 (S. 1253) is identical in most respects to S. 1253, which was introduced on May 25, 2017.1 Both S. 1253 and the substitute legislation would codify aspects of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-16, authorizing many of its existing components, and modifying or expanding upon other aspects. For example, both bills would continue the Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC) and support the current goal of creating a National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI). Both bills also would add a requirement for annual performance reporting from each of the covered agencies to the FGDC, and would require a summary and evaluation by the FGDC of each agency in fulfilling the responsibilities listed in the legislation for the covered agencies. The annual summaries and evaluations would be made available to the National Geospatial Advisory Committee (NGAC), and the FGDC would be directed to respond to comments from NGAC. Further, the FGDC would be required to make available to Congress, not less than every two years, a report summarizing and evaluating agency performance, comments from NGAC, responses to those comments, and responses to comments from the covered agencies themselves. The substitute legislation differs from the original bill primarily by omitting the last two sections of S. 1253, sections 11 and 12. Section 11 of S. 1253 would address use of the private sector to provide geospatial data and services.4 Section 12 of S. 1253 describes the relationship of the legislation to state laws regarding performance of services of a surveying, mapping, or geospatial nature.
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives passed the conference report for the National Defense Authorization Act on Tuesday (November 14). The report includes a provision requiring “the Secretary of Defense to conduct a report on the need for a Joint Chemical-Biological Defense Logistics Center.” The report would study the viability of the logistics center being located at Pine Bluff Arsenal in Jefferson County. “The Pine Bluff Arsenal is uniquely equipped to house our military’s chemical and biological agents,” Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) said. “For decades, PBA has proven itself capable of handling the most sensitive chemical components. Inclusion of this study on the viability of a large-scale clearing house for our nation’s chemical and biological agents is important for military readiness and important for the working military professionals at Pine Bluff Arsenal.” According to Pine Bluff Arsenal, it provides “America's Joint Warfighter with specialized ammunitions, smoke, and chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) defense capabilities through expert manufacturing, storage and logistics.” Other highlights of the NDAA (provided by the office of Majority Whip Steve Scalise): The NDAA provides $634.2 billion for base budget requirements and $65.7 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding. Funds requirements identified by the military services that will help rebuild our military and restore readiness by providing additional aircraft, ships, and systems for our warfighter, as well as funding for depot maintenance and facilities sustainment. 90 F-35s, 24 F/A-18s, 3 Littoral Combat Ships, 3 destroyers, 85 Abrams Tank upgrades, 93 Bradley Fighting Vehicles, 53 UH-60M Blackhawks, and additional critical modernization priorities. Funds a 2.4% pay raise for the troops, increases end strength for the Active and Reserve forces, improves the delivery of health care services, and ensures our service members and their families receive the benefits they deserve. Prohibits nonconsensual sharing of intimate images, includes additional provisions to protect victims of sexual assault, and improves sexual assault prevention and response. Provides the resources necessary for operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria to combat ISIS and other terrorist organizations. Increases funding for the European Deterrence Initiative (EDI) to support our European allies and deter Russia. $350 million for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative, $100 million for Baltic nations’ development of joint defense programs, and $705 million for the Iron Dome, David’s Sling, and Arrow. Reaffirms the U.S. deterrence commitments to Japan and South Korea and continues to invest in ballistic missile defense capabilities to defend U.S. territories and our allies from potential threats from North Korea. Continues to reform acquisition at the Pentagon by increasing efficiencies through competition and enhancing oversight. The NDAA also authorizes funding for the National Nuclear Security Administration’s (NNSA) weapons activities and defense nuclear nonproliferation program. Maintains current prohibitions on transferring detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (November 7) following passage of combination of bills which would benefit veterans of America’s armed forces: “This week, we observe Veterans’ Day,” Westerman said. “The men and women who have served in our armed forces deserve our respect and support. One way we can support our American heroes is ensuring they are taken care of, whether it be through continued improvements at VA hospitals or providing apprenticeship and other career assistance services. It is the least we can do for those who have sacrificed so much for our freedom.” Bills passed by Congress this week include: H.R. 1066 – VA Management Alignment Act of 2017; H.R. 3122 – Veterans Care Protection Act of 2017; H.R. 3562 – To amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish assistance for adaptations of residences of veterans in rehabilitation programs under chapter 31 of such title, and for other purposes; H.R. 3656 – To amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for a consistent eligibility date for provision of Department of Veterans Affairs memorial headstones and markers for eligible spouses and dependent children of veterans whose remains are unavailable; H.R. 918 – Veteran Urgent Access to Mental Healthcare Act; H.R. 1133 – Veterans Transplant Coverage Act of 2017; H.R. 1900 – National Veterans Memorial and Museum Act; H.R. 2123 – VETS Act of 2017; H.R. 2601 – VICTOR Act of 2017; H.R. 3634 – SERVE Act of 2017; H.R. 3705 – Veterans Fair Debt Notice Act of 2017; H.R. 3949 – VALOR Act, as amended; and H.R. 4173 – Veterans Crisis Line Study Act of 2017.
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman released the following statement Friday (November 3) upon passage of H.R. 3922, the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act: “The health and wellness of our children should be our top priority,” Westerman said. “Today, Congress funded the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for an additional five years. This action, as well as providing funding for community health centers and other public health programs, protects the most vulnerable in our communities in a fiscally responsible manner.” Programs funded by H.R. 3922 receive widespread support from members on both sides of the aisle and include (information provided by House Energy and Commerce Committee): Five Year Extension of The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP): CHIP is an important safety net program that provides health care to lower-income children. In 2015, more than 8.4 million children received their health insurance through a CHIP program. The bill extends CHIP funding through FY 2022 and ensures children continue to receive coverage through state CHIP programs rather than through the ACA exchanges and Medicaid. This bill also restores the historically successful federal-state partnership and prudently limits federal spending by unwinding the 23% E-FMAP created in the ACA. 2 Year Extension of Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs): FQHCs (community health centers) are community-based, patient-centered organizations that provide comprehensive health services to medically-underserved populations, regardless of their ability to pay. The bill extends funding for these centers for two years through the Community Health Center Fund. According to the Health Resources and Services Administration, in 2015, community health centers employed nearly 190,000 people and served over 24 million patients. One in 13 people nationwide rely on a health center for their health care needs. 2 Year Extension of Important Public Health Programs: Funding for the National Health Service Corps, Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education, Family-to-Family Health Information Centers, the Youth Empowerment Program, and the Personal Responsibility Education Program are included in this bill.
11.01.2017	Today, the House passed H.R. 2936, the “Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017,” by a vote of 232-188, including 10 Democrats in support. Introduced by Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04), the bipartisan bill provides protection to federal forests and grasslands by implementing scientifically-backed (or proven), proactive management standards intended to lessen the threat of wildfires and other risks. “This year has proven to be another catastrophic year for wildfires,” Westerman said. “Dozens of lives have been lost, thousands of homes destroyed, and millions of acres burned. Congress spoke today and said enough is enough. We must give the Forest Service the tools it needs to stop these fires before they start. We must end the practice of fire borrowing and treat wildfires as the natural disasters they are, funding recovery efforts through FEMA. We must do what is right for our environment and stop these catastrophic wildfires. I thank Speaker Ryan, Leader McCarthy, and Chairman Bishop for their leadership on this issue and I thank my co-sponsors on both sides of the aisle.” The bill received praise from House Speaker Paul Ryan, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT). “We have been reminded in recent months and years that America’s federal forests are in desperate need of active management,” Ryan said. “As a forester, Bruce has put together a bill that provides the U.S. Forest Service with the tools necessary to combat overgrowth, disease, and insect infestation in our forests which will reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire.” “California and communities throughout the Western portion of our country have been recently devastated by historic wildfires,” McCarthy said. “I have seen firsthand how wildfires have ravaged the forests and communities that I represent in Kern County and Tulare County, as well as the devastation caused by the fires in northern California. Passage of today’s bill will finally allow forest managers to get rid of the dead and dry wood that fuels these fires and swiftly take other management actions all to help prevent wildfires, rather than just suppress them when they take place. The bill also fixes the fire borrowing problem, helping ensure the Forest Service can continue to work on important recreation and maintenance issues in our forests so the public can fully use and enjoy them. I thank Chairman Rob Bishop and Congressman Bruce Westerman for their work on this legislation at a time when our communities are in dire need of forest management reform. I look forward to the Senate taking swift action to pass this bill and send it to President Trump to become law.” “This is a bill based on a simple idea – that we must do more to expand active management in federal forests," Bishop said. "With this bill, we tackle not only the symptoms of the crisis but also its root causes. We provide the resources for our fire-fighters, but also tools for our land managers to improve conditions on the ground and proactively mitigate the threat of wildfire.” Background: H.R. 2936 addresses the growing economic and environmental threats of catastrophic wildfire and solves the problem of “fire-borrowing.” The bill streamlines onerous environmental review processes to get work done on the ground quickly, without sacrificing environmental protection. Click here to learn more about H.R. 2936 (.pdf) Westerman Rule Debate Speech (.pdf) Westerman Speech on Final Passage (.pdf)
10.26.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) testified Thursday (October 26) before the International Trade Commission. The commission’s Thursday hearing focused on allegations of hardwood plywood dumping by Chinese companies. Westerman’s testimony (as prepared): Testimony for Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) Final phase antidumping and countervailing duty investigations: Hardwood Plywood from China, Inv. 701-TA-565 and 731-TA-1341 October 27th, 2017 Good morning, Chairman Schmidtlein and members of the International Trade Commission. Thank you for the opportunity to testify before the Commission today on a matter of great importance to my home state of Arkansas, as well as the rest of the country. As a professional engineer and forester, and having spent 23 years of my life in private practice engineering and designing plants and mills that convert timber into a full spectrum of wood products, I believe I am able to offer a unique prospective on today’s ITC hearings. Let me begin by taking a moment to discuss what basic inputs determine the overall price of a piece of plywood. Every wood product starts as a raw log, and 60 to 80 percent of the finished cost of goods can be attributed to raw materials when the timber is purchased legally in a competitive market. The raw material costs take into account the cost of the timber, labor to harvest, and transportation to the mill. In addition to the material raw material cost is the manufacturing and shipping costs that accounts for the other 20 to 40 percent of the overall cost of goods sold. Included in it are labor, mill operations, depreciation on capital equipment, interest expenses, taxes, environmental compliance, regulatory costs and warehousing and shipping. Since timber is by far the largest determining factor associated with cost, let’s take another minute to examine how the United States and China procure raw materials for the products in question. According to the National Alliance of Forest Owners (NAFO), approximately 360 million acres or 70% of the working forests in the U.S. are on private land, owned by individuals, families, small and large businesses, and an increasing number of Americans who invest in working forests for retirement. The remaining 30% of timber land suitable for timber management is owned predominantly by the federal government. Due to complex environmental laws, litigation restraints, and a myriad of bureaucratic red tape, federal land is essentially locked away from reasonable timber management causing federal timber harvests to minimal. Therefore, the vast percentage of timber in the United State is harvested from private lands in a sustainable, environmentally sound, responsible manner by companies that pay a competitive fair market value for the material. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about timber procurement in China. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in 2016 the Chinese government owned over 195 million acres of planted forests. These plantation style forests, which account for 35.2 percent of the total amount of forested land in China, are planted and maintained for the specific purpose of helping to supply a wood hungry economy with a low cost, government subsidized raw material. Additionally, a 2011 article by Australian Professor William Laurance, published at the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, stated that in its relentless pursuit of timber: “More than half of the timber shipped globally is destined for China. But unscrupulous Chinese companies are importing huge amounts of illegally harvested wood, prompting conservation groups to step up boycotts against rapacious timber interest.” U.S. working forests are among the best in the world and our free market economy allows timber to be purchased at a fair market value with an obvious freight advantage over Chinese wood products sold in America. American technology, environmental stewardship, and work force in the forestry sector are tops. We know what it takes to produce fair market plywood as well as many other wood products in the U.S. What we don’t fully understand and would likely never get an accurate data set to analyze is what are the accurate cost to produce in China and how much of that cost is borne by unfair practices by the Chinese government and producers. Commissioners, I could certainly go on about how different aspects of Chinese plywood production indicate opportunity for heavy government subsidies through raw material procurement, lax environmental regulation, or negligent labor protections, but what is evident to me is that Chinese hardwood plywood producers have one immediate goal: to at all cost, capture market share in economies outside the control of the Chinese government and U.S. markets are a prime target of that goal. Chinas’ dumping creates an unfair market advantage harming not just domestic plywood producers, but all aspects of the plywood supply chain which in turn cripples rural economies and communities such as the ones I represent. I am hopeful that the ITC will find in favor of the petitioners thereby allowing our hard working men and women to compete on a level playing field with imported products. Thank you again for this opportunity to testify.
10.19.2017	HOT SPRINGS – Senators John Boozman, Tom Cotton, and Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) on Thursday (October 19) announced a $1.3 million grant to the Southwest Arkansas Regional Intermodal Authority in Clark County. According to the U.S. Economic Development Administration, the grant “funds the construction of a public transload facility with crossdock.” The EDA said 250 new jobs were expected as a result of the project, along with “$1.3 billion in private investment leveraged.” “We can be proud of the regional collaboration to secure this infrastructure investment,” Boozman said. “This project will create well-paying jobs while increasing opportunities for Arkansas businesses and economic growth in our state.” “This grant is good news for southwest Arkansas,” Cotton said. “Building up our infrastructure will create jobs and help Arkansas businesses expand, and I commend everyone involved for all their hard work.” “Rural infrastructure is vital to economic growth in Arkansas,” Westerman said. “I congratulate the Southwest Arkansas Regional Intermodal Authority for its grant award, which will create good-paying jobs for hundreds of Clark County residents and contribute to the region’s growth in the decades to come.”
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) hosted a press conference Thursday (October 5) with western Members of Congress to address the wildfire crisis unfolding across the western United States. He was joined by House Natural Resources Committee Chair Rob Bishop (UT-01), House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (OR-02), Congressional Western Caucus Chair Paul Gosar (AZ-04), Congressmen Greg Gianforte (MT-At-Large), Raúl Labrador (ID-01), Doug LaMalfa (CA-04), Tom McClintock (CA-04), and Dan Newhouse (WA-04). Westerman’s opening statement (as prepared): “This year, multiple natural disasters have hit the United States, leaving billions of dollars in damages across a large swath of land. Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria have dominated the headlines. As Americans monitor television and online reports of hurricanes, there's little attention on the deadly and destructive fires across the West that have torched 8.5 million acres – nearly four times the land mass of Puerto Rico – sending millions of tons of carbon into the atmosphere in massive smoke plumes that have closed schools, killed livestock, and created serious health issues for people living near and far from these fires. “We have set a new record this year in fire suppression costs that broke the old record in 2015 that broke the previous record in 2012 that broke the previous record set in 2006. There is a pattern here, yet we fail to act. Forests continue to grow. Disease and insect infestations continue to spread. Fuel loads increase. Temperatures rise, humidity drops, and fires continue to explode in unmanaged forests. “As a result, the Forest Service is forced to raid its management accounts in order to pay for firefighting costs, a practice known as “fire borrowing.” This leads to less management, which foster more frequent and intense fires. Simply put, this is unsustainable. “It is time for Congress to wake up and address the crisis that continues to burn as we speak. “I am calling on Congress to pass the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017. While ending fire borrowing, my bill gives the U.S. Forest Service the tools it needs to actively and scientifically manage our forests. “There is no downside to a healthy forest. They clean the air, filter water, improve wildlife habitat, enhance plant and animal biodiversity, create scenic landscapes, and can be an economic driver in rural communities through multiple uses including sport, recreation, and timber production.”
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (September 27) in response to President Donald Trump’s tax relief proposal unveiled in Indianapolis: “Today, President Donald Trump and the U.S. House of Representatives unveiled details on one of the key components of our ‘Better Way’ agenda – a simplified tax code. We have listened to the American people,” Westerman said. “You told us the tax code is too complex and burdensome. We agree. That is why President Trump and House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady unveiled an overhaul of our tax code that promotes job growth, doubles the standard deduction, brings an end to the death tax, eliminates corporate tax loopholes, reduces the number of tax brackets – lowering rates for everyone – and makes our system more fair for hardworking taxpayers. It is now our job to take these reforms from proposals to law in the coming months, a challenge I believe we can achieve. I thank the president for his leadership on this issue and look forward to working with my House colleagues to pass meaningful tax relief.”
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon House passage of the final of 12 appropriations bills on Thursday (September 14): “The House of Representatives today fulfilled its duty to pass all appropriations bills before October 1,” Westerman said. “The last time all appropriations bills were passed and enacted on time was more than 20 years ago. The hard work of passing all appropriations bills on time shows that we are getting back to regular order in the House. I call on the Senate to tackle these bills so we can fund discretionary spending without additional continuing resolutions or last minute omnibus spending bills. We have a lot of work left to do – balancing the budget and reducing government spending are among my top priorities. Passage of these appropriations bills shows we are working hard in the House to right the ship. I hope the Senate follows our lead.”
09.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (September 12) after passage of a series of anti-terrorism bills in the U.S. House of Representatives: “This week, we remembered the lives lost on 9/11,” Westerman said. “In the years since, we have tightened our security and enhanced our laws in an effort to prevent further death and destruction on American soil and that fight continues to this very day. That is why we passed a series of bills today that will strengthen our security and give American law enforcement the tools necessary to fight terrorism and those who finance it.” Bills passed Tuesday include: H.R. 3284 - Joint Counterterrorism Awareness Workshop Series Act of 2017, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick / Homeland Security Committee) H.R. 2453 - DHS Intelligence Rotational Assignment Program Act of 2017 (Sponsored by Rep. Mike Gallagher / Homeland Security Committee) H.R. 2427 - Pathways to Improving Homeland Security At the Local Level Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Val Demings / Homeland Security Committee) H.R. 2470 - Homeland Threat Assessment Act (Sponsored by Rep. Mike Rogers / Homeland Security Committee) H.R. 2468 - Unifying DHS Intelligence Enterprise Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Scott Perry / Homeland Security Committee) H.R. 2433 - Homeland Security Assessment of Terrorists Use of Virtual Currencies Act (Sponsored by Rep. Kathleen Rice / Homeland Security Committee) H.R. 2454 - Department of Homeland Security Data Framework Act of 2017, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Will Hurd / Homeland Security Committee) H.R. 2442 - FIRST State and Local Law Enforcement Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee / Homeland Security Committee) H.R. 2443 - Department of Homeland Security Classified Facility Inventory Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Lou Barletta / Homeland Security Committee) H.R. 2471 - TRACER Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. John Rutherford / Homeland Security Committee)
09.06.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman, Tom Cotton, and Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) announced a Department of Transportation grant Wednesday (September 6) for Memorial Field in Hot Springs. The $790,500 grant will pay for an expansion of the airport’s apron area. “Infrastructure improvements are vital to the economic development of Arkansas. This investment will help the Hot Springs airport improve its facility and continue to meet the transportation needs of the region,” Boozman said. “I want to congratulate Memorial Field in Hot Springs on receiving this grant. I know these funds will go a long way toward ensuring travelers have a great experience at Memorial Field,” Cotton said. “Memorial Field is an economic generator in Garland County. This grant will further support and expand the airport’s mission, creating opportunity for additional air service in the Ouachitas,” Westerman said.
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (September 5) on President Donald J. Trump’s rescindment of DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals): “No matter how compassionate its intent, President Obama’s creation of DACA was a clear violation of our separation of powers,” Westerman said. “As Attorney General Sessions said today, the Justice Department could not make a clear and compelling defense for an executive action that was outside the Constitutional authority granted to the President. Congress writes our nation’s laws and President Trump has tasked us with addressing this issue in coming months as he winds down the DACA program. It is my hope that we construct a fair and just legislative solution to this issue that affects many aspects of our society and many people who live here.”
08.22.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE PINE BLUFF, Arkansas – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (August 22) in support of President Donald J. Trump’s visit to the southern border at Yuma, Arizona: "Our nation's southern border has lacked necessary security and control for too long,” Westerman said. “I have toured the border first hand and will be making additional trips. While the brave men and women of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection do an outstanding job with the resources at their disposal, they are unable to prevent the immense flow of illegal immigrants, deadly narcotics, and illicit contraband from pouring into our country. President Trump today proved he is serious about securing our borders and protecting American citizens at home. I applaud his efforts and pledge to continue working with him in the months and years to come as we bring real security and control to our southern border." ###
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday (July 26) to honor Huck Plyler of Hope. Huck, the 6-year-old son of Caleb and Brianna Plyler, started what is now known as “Huck’s Military Care Package Project.” To date, Huck’s project has provided more than 50 care packages to Arkansas National Guard troops deployed to the Horn of Africa. Westerman’s full speech (as prepared) follows: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a young man whose thoughtfulness and generosity has stirred the hearts, souls, and patriotic spirits of people across my district and Arkansas. Earlier this year, 6 year old Huck Plyler of Hope, Arkansas, started what is now known as “Huck’s Military Care Package Project.” Huck’s project is comprised of putting together care packages for the nearly 700 members of the Arkansas National Guard currently deployed to the Horn of Africa. Huck’s care packages include items such as non-perishable snacks, lip balm, sun screen, personal hygiene products, socks, and more. When asked why he decided to start this project, Huck’s answer, “We do this because they help us, so we help them”. Though simple, this reply is wise beyond his years. Huck’s dedication to this project has enabled him to collect enough donated items, and monetary donations to send over 50 boxes to our troops thus far. Mr. Speaker, Huck’s kindness and thoughtfulness brings honor to himself, his parents Caleb and Brianna Plyler, and to the benevolent people of Hempstead County and Arkansas. I commend and thank Huck for his hard work and commitment to our military members serving overseas. It is young men and women like Huck that give me hope for the future, hope that the giving and caring spirit is still alive and well in our young people and country today. I yield back.
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (July 25) upon passage of H.R. 364, a bill to impose sanctions against Russia, Iran, and North Korea: “Aggression against American citizens and our allies by the Russian Federation, Iran, and North Korea must come to an end,” Westerman said. “That is why Congress spoke with a loud voice today and passed sweeping sanctions against these three nations. These sanctions punish Russia for its incursions into Crimea; holds Putin and his regime accountable for meddling in the 2016 election; punishes Iran for ballistic missile development; further punishes North Korea for nuclear weapons development; and holds Iran and North Korea to account for the detention of American citizens. This bill sends a loud message to other nations – obey the sovereignty of other countries or face the consequences. I urge President Trump to stand with Congress and sign this bill into law.”
07.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Monday (July 24) upon passage of a collection of bills which will improve care for our nation’s veterans: “Supporting our veterans is the least we can do as Americans,” Westerman said. “Legislation passed today would improve care, create more accountability in the VA, and so much more. The failings at the VA are well known, but I am committed to improving care and support for those who have sacrificed so much for our freedom.” The bills approved Monday are as follows: H.R. 3218 – Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017; H.R. 1058 – VA Provider Equity Act; H.R. 1690 – Department of Veterans Affairs Bonus Transparency Act; H.R. 2006 – VA Procurement Efficiency and Transparency Act; H.R. 2781 – Ensuring Veteran Enterprise Participation in Strategic Sourcing Act; H.R. 2749 – Protecting Business Opportunities for Veterans Act of 2017; H.R. 3262 – Grow Our Own Directive: Physician Assistant Employment and Education Act of 2017; H.R. 95 – Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act; and H.R. 1848 – Veterans Affairs Medical Scribe Pilot Act of 2017.
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (July 19) upon passage of H.R. 2910, the Promoting Interagency Coordination for Review of Natural Gas Pipelines Act: “Across America, natural gas has become a reliable and readily available energy source for everything from home heating to fuel for vehicles,” Westerman said. “If we are to continue growing our nation’s energy infrastructure, we must modernize the permitting process starting at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Allowing FERC to be the lead agency for permitting will simplify the process and reduce duplicative procedures, bringing more transparency and efficiency to an oft confusing process. The result is a more reliable energy pipeline system with more affordable prices which is a win-win for the American people.”
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) conducted his first hearing Tuesday (July 18) as chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations. The hearing was entitled, “Examining Impacts of Federal Natural Resources Laws Gone Astray, Part II.” Westerman was named chairman on June 29. At the time, Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) said, “I’m excited to announce changes to our subcommittee leadership as we press forward with creative solutions from addressing our wildfire crisis and promoting forest resiliency to modernizing infrastructure and outdated environmental laws.” Following is Westerman’s opening statement (as prepared): Today, we will examine the implementation of two significant laws – The Marine Mammal Protection Act, or the MMPA, and the National Historic Preservation Act, also referred to as NHPA. While this is my first hearing as the Chairman of the Subcommittee, this is the second hearing in a series the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee is holding to examine the impacts of federal natural resource laws that have stretched beyond Congress’ original intent. As a professional engineer and forester by trade, many of these issues hit close to home for me, and I am committed to pursuing thoughtful oversight with a scientific approach using my professional expertise. I look forward to working with Ranking Member McEachin, and the other members of this Subcommittee. As this Committee has previously explored, numerous federal laws allow the Executive Branch to enjoy far more power and exercise more discretion in implementing these laws than Congress ever intended. Last May, the Subcommittee held a hearing to discuss with those impacted how agencies were improperly implementing the Federal Land Policy and Management Act, the Indian Reorganization Act, and the Wilderness Act. As we continue our review, we have found other instances of federal agencies expanding their roles through unclear and overreaching regulations. In many of these cases, the expanded implementation of these laws has led to inefficient and burdensome regulatory processes, excessive amounts of litigation, and overall adverse effects for the American taxpayer. The MMPA was enacted to minimize harm to marine mammals due to human behavior. Regulations to protect marine mammals, however, have become extremely restrictive and oppressive without yielding significantly greater protections for these species. For example, it is evident that the inefficient manner in which regulations are implemented under the MMPA has led to severe delays in permit issuances for entities wishing to carry out their operations while sincerely ensuring the safety of marine mammals. One of our witnesses today will describe how this lengthy and complicated process affects seismic surveyors’ efforts to explore our country’s critical offshore oil and gas resources. Seismic surveyors have a history of safely operating in our nation’s oceans while providing necessary information to initiate offshore energy production. We depend on such energy production for our country’s energy independence. Seismic surveyors, however, have faced a long uphill battle in obtaining the necessary permits, with some companies still waiting to receive their authorizations today after beginning the process over 6 years ago. This morning we will also hear testimony related to NHPA. Congress passed this Act with the intention of protecting America’s most treasured historic sites from destruction or substantial alteration. In past years, the Act has provided success in preserving some of our most cherished historic sites. Unfortunately, today the implementation of this Act has expanded beyond its original mission of protecting cherished historic sites, and has created an enormous burden for many federal agencies. Under Section 106 of the law, Federal agencies are required to consider any possible impacts to historic sites when issuing permits and approving projects. Traditionally the law was intended to allow agencies to consult the National Register of Historic Places for any impacts of their actions. However, today this has evolved into a process that is extremely time consuming and burdensome, causing major delays for the approval of projects and permits, even if there is little expected impact to historic sites. The experience of one of our witnesses here with us today, Ms. Patricia Brandt, also exemplifies how this law is misapplied and vulnerable to abuse. Her neighborhood of Eastmoreland, in Portland, Oregon, is currently under consideration for designation as a historic district on the National Register. Her experience highlights the difficult and confusing processes required for opposing listings under National Park Service rules, and exposes how this federal process is often used to bypass local decision-making on such matters. As we examine issues that have arisen from the improper implementation of these laws, I hope our discussion today will bring us closer to potential solutions that bring the application of these laws back to Congress’s original intent. I look forward to hearing from our Members and witnesses as to how we can accomplish this for the MMPA and NHPA. I thank our witnesses for being here today, and I look forward to hearing your testimony. I now recognize the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, Mr. McEachin of Virginia, for five minutes.
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Congressman Bruce Westerman, today announced that Texarkana Regional-Webb Field will receive a grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to support facility upgrades. “Texarkana’s airport is a valuable resource to the community. This investment will enhance safety for travelers and promote economic development in the region,” members said. The airport will receive $982,998 to build a taxiway.
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday upon passage of H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018: “Acts of terror around the world in recent months are a stark reminder of the threats against a free world,” Westerman said. “That is why I voted today for the National Defense Authorization Act. The NDAA provides funding for our armed services so they can protect and defend America at home and abroad. Included in this year’s package is a 2.4 percent pay raise for the men and women in our armed services. This bill also provides the resources necessary to support the fight against the Taliban and other terrorist organizations, including the fight against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. In Arkansas, this bill would also invest resources at the Highland Industrial Park in East Camden and other facilities in the Fourth Congressional District.” Following are highlights in the NDAA for FY18: The FY18 NDAA provides a total of $631.5 billion for base discretionary requirements and an additional $64.6 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding to support our troops and defend our nation, consistent with the proposed FY18 Budget Resolution. The FY18 NDAA provides resources to rebuild our military and restore readiness by funding priorities identified by the military services that will increase end strength, provide additional aircraft, ships, and systems for our warfighter, including: 87 F-35s, 22 F/A-18s, 3 Littoral Combat Ships, 3 destroyers, 86 Abrams Tank upgrades, and 93 Bradley Fighting Vehicles Authorizes a 2.4% pay raise for the troops and ensures our service members and their families receive the benefits they deserve. Increases funding for the European Deterrence Initiative (EDI) to support our European allies deter Russia and provides $150 million for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative. Supports Israel’s missile defense and includes $705 million for the Iron Dome, David’s Sling, and Arrow. Continues to reform acquisition at the Pentagon by streamlining the bureaucracy and increasing efficiencies through competition.
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement following Wednesday’s (June 12) passage of three anti-human trafficking bills: “Human trafficking is a form of slavery that continues to be prevalent in many parts of the world,” Westerman said. “Even here in the United States, young people have been forced into human trafficking. If we are going to end modern slavery around the world, we must lead by example and enhance our own laws. That is why I voted Wednesday to enhance our nation’s anti-human trafficking laws. H.R. 2200, 2480, and 2664 will give law enforcement the tools needed to fight trafficking in America, assist victims of trafficking, and hopefully bring an end to this horrific practice.” Summaries of each bill, according to Bloomberg News: H.R. 2200, the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act of 2017: “Federal programs to combat and respond to human trafficking would be reauthorized with some changes under a modified version of H.R. 2200.” H.R. 2480, the Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act: “States and localities could use Justice Department grants to combat human trafficking under H.R. 2480.” H.R. 2664, the Enhancing Detection of Human Trafficking Act: “The Labor Department would be directed by H.R. 2664 to implement a training program for its employees to detect and assist law enforcement in preventing human trafficking.”
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (June 29) upon passage of H.R. 3003, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, and H.R. 3004, Kate’s Law: “The United States is a nation of law and order,” Westerman said. “But instead of abiding by the law, many cities have been harboring individuals in this country illegally. Some of these illegal immigrants have committed heinous crimes while receiving harbor from federal immigration enforcement, bringing wrenching pain to families across this country. The bills passed by the House today would put a stop to cities harboring illegal immigrants without consequence, stripping federal funding from cities found to be in violation of federal immigration law. At the same time, the law would impose enhanced criminal penalties for illegal aliens with serious criminal records that have been convicted of illegal entry and subsequently return to the United States.” More information on both bills may be found at the Republican Policy Committee: RPC: H.R. 3003, No Sanctuary for Criminals Act; RPC: H.R. 3004, Kate’s Law.
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) announced updated assignments and subcommittee leadership appointments for the House Committee on Natural Resources during the 115th Congress. Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-AR) will serve as the new Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations. Rep. Darin LaHood (R-IL) will serve as the new Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on Federal Lands. Rep. Jack Bergman (R-MI) will be a new member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources and no longer on the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations. “I’m excited to announce changes to our subcommittee leadership as we press forward with creative solutions from addressing our wildfire crisis and promoting forest resiliency to modernizing infrastructure and outdated environmental laws,” Chairman Bishop said. “Reps. Westerman and LaHood will be driving forces on important issues before the committee and I look forward to working with them in these new leadership roles.” “For too long, agencies have run rampant by intentionally misinterpreting the will of the people and Congress,” Westerman said. “As the new chair of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, I pledge to make sure our natural resources and the federal agencies that oversee them work for the American people. If an agency is operating in an overreaching or unconstitutional manner, this subcommittee will take action. I thank Chairman Bishop for entrusting me with this important position and commit to work together with my colleagues in the best interests of the American people and our natural resources.” “I am honored to be appointed as Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on Federal Lands for the Natural Resources Committee. As a father of three boys who regularly enjoy the outdoors, I witness firsthand how our federal lands represent great opportunities for recreation, and also economic opportunities that can benefit our entire country. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this subcommittee to preserve these lands so that current and future generations may continue to enjoy the natural beauty and resources of our great country,” LaHood stated.
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (June 27) upon passage of H.R. 1135, a bill to reauthorize the Historically Black Colleges and Universities Historic Preservation Program: “The reauthorization of the HBCU Historic Preservation program is important for our nation’s Historically Black Colleges and Universities,” Westerman, vice chair of the House HBCU Caucus, said. “Universities with storied histories across the country, including the University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff, are eligible for the program which would provide funding for a large list of projects to improve safety, accessibility, and learning environments. I am proud to have voted for this bill and proud to stand with UAPB and HBCUs across the nation.” According to the National Park Service, more than $65 million in grants have been awarded through the program during the last 30 years. Recipients of grants are required to cover 30 percent of the cost of an eligible project, Bloomberg reported, adding that such “projects include stabilization, masonry repair, removing lead paint or other hazards, and the improvement of access for the disabled.” UAPB is the only HBCU in the Fourth Congressional District of Arkansas. Arkansas Baptist College and Philander Smith College, both located in Little Rock, have participated in the preservation program since its inception.
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, the House Committee on Natural Resources passed H.R. 2936, the “Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017.” Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-AR) introduced the bipartisan bill to reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire and dramatically improve the health of federal forests and rangelands. “Our forest health crisis can no longer be neglected. Active management is needed to reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire and improve the health and resiliency of our forests and grasslands. More money alone is not the solution. This comprehensive forest management package solves the fire-borrowing problem and gives federal land managers immediate tools to increase the pace and scale of management and restoration projects,” Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) said. “I thank Rep. Westerman for his dedication on this issue and look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to advance this legislation.” “Passage of the Resilient Federal Forests Act out of committee proves that Congress is serious about tackling the major issues. As we debated this bill, dozens of wildfires continue to burn in the southwest. With property and lives in danger, it again highlights the necessity of the Resilient Federal Forests Act. It would reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires through active forest management, addressing both the symptoms and the underlying cause of catastrophic fires in our national forests,” Rep. Westerman said. “I thank Chairman Bishop for quickly moving this bill through committee and I look forward to its passage in the House.” Background: H.R. 2936 addresses the growing economic and environmental threats of catastrophic wildfire and solves the problem of “fire-borrowing.” The bill streamlines onerous environmental review processes to get work done on the ground quickly, without sacrificing environmental protection. The bill also minimizes the threat of frivolous litigation by providing alternatives to resolve legal challenges against forest management activities. Click here to learn more about H.R. 2936.
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) spoke in favor of H.R. 1873, the Electricity Reliability and Forest Protection Act on Wednesday (June 21). Westerman – an original co-sponsor of the legislation along with primary sponsor Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) and Reps. Tom O Halleran (D-AZ), Jim Costa (D-CA), Liz Cheney (R-WY), and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) – said the bill was “common sense” and would reduce the risk of wildfires on federal land (text as delivered): “I thank the gentleman from Florida and Mr. Speaker, I rise today in favor of H.R. 1873, the Electricity Reliability and Forest Protection Act and I thank Mr. LaMalfa for his leadership on this issue. I would also like to commend the bipartisan support for this bill and associate my remarks with the gentleman from California, Mr. Costa, and the gentleman from Oregon, Mr. Schrader. “This bill is a common sense piece of legislation that will reduce the risk of wildfires and improve the safety and reliability of our electrical grid. How will this bill accomplish these objectives? It’s really quite simple. When we remove overgrown vegetation near our electric grid on federal lands, we remove the fuel component of wildfires. By reducing the risk of wildfire, we reduce the risk of an interruption of our electrical grid. “Mr. Speaker, this is so much just plain common sense. It doesn’t make sense to me that we have to debate it on the floor of the House of Representatives. But I think it is an example of how misguided some of our land management agencies have become and the need for broader reforms. This bill would streamline the federal review process for removal of trees and vegetation that pose a risk to our power grid and promotes consistency among federal agencies tasked with the decisions on removal. “If we want to move toward better protection of our forests on federal lands and the electrical grid that moves through these locations, it’s obvious that we should pass H.R. 1873. “Mr. Speaker, I yield back.” On Tuesday, Westerman re-introduced the H.R. 2936, Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017. The bill would provide protection to the national forest system by implementing proactive management standards intended to lessen the threat of wildfires and other risks. H.R. 1873 passed the House with a vote of 300-118.
06.20.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) re-introduced H.R. 2936, the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017, on Tuesday (June 20). The bill would provide protection to the national forest system by implementing proactive management standards intended to lessen the threat of wildfires and other risks. “For far too long, our nation’s forests have been fighting a battle for survival. The conflict is not with logging but with the effects of reactive versus proactive management which has resulted in costly confrontations with wildfire, disease, and insects. In 2015, a record 10.1 million acres burned due to wildfires,” Westerman said. “This bill would utilize tools already available to the U.S. Forest Service and provide protection to America’s forests by reducing the risks of wildfires through proper management techniques.” The bi-partisan bill – co-sponsored by Reps. Raúl Labrador (R-ID), Tom McClintock (R-CA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Collin Peterson (D-MN), and Scott Tipton (R-CO) – received praise from House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) and Western Caucus Chairman Paul Gosar, D.D.S. (R-AZ). “After working diligently with a broad coalition of stakeholders and federal land managers, Rep. Westerman’s bill is the solution we need to address our forest health crisis and significantly improve the resiliency of our nation’s forests,” Bishop said. “The tools in this bill can be implemented immediately by federal land management agencies to increase the pace, scale and cost efficiency of forest management projects without sacrificing environmental protections. I commend Rep. Westerman on his continued leadership on this issue and look forward to working with our colleagues in the House to advance this legislation forward.” “For far too long, our wildfire policies have been too focused on playing catch-up instead of encouraging proactive management to prevent devastating fires from wreaking havoc on our forests and communities. Old forest overgrowth has created a literal tinderbox that threatens the well-being of our forests, and insects and disease have run rampant due to a lack of active management,” Gosar said. “It defies common sense that a small fraction of our federal lands are treated by the U.S. Forest Service, particularly given the scientifically proven benefits of doing so. Unfortunately, my district has seen first-hand the impact of mismanagement. “This legislation will streamline the permitting process for proactive thinning projects while simultaneously ensuring reforestation activities. Inter-agency dysfunction and frivolous lawsuits from environmental extremist groups have plagued forest management long enough. This bipartisan bill will not only strengthen collaboration between the federal government and local stakeholders, but will also improve forest health for generations to come.” Westerman previously introduced the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015 during the 114th Congress. It passed the House with by a vote of 262-167, including 21 Democrats crossing the aisle to support the bill.
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement Thursday (June 15) upon passage of H.R. 2372, the VETERAN Act, and H.R. 2579, the Broader Options for Americans Act: “The purchase of health insurance by veterans, individuals on COBRA coverage, and all Americans should be fair,” Westerman said. “Extending tax credits to individuals on COBRA levels the playing field and helps the middle class keep more of their hard-earned money especially when they may be between jobs. Passage of the VETERAN Act protects tax credits for veterans who choose to purchase their health coverage on the open market, forgoing VA coverage for which they qualify. Both of these bills are about fairness and giving consumers a choice and I was proud to cast my vote in support of veterans and the middle class.”
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (June 13) upon passage of S. 1094 - Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act: “The failings of the Veterans Administration are well known. In order to fix the problems within the VA, accountability is needed,” Westerman said. “That is why I voted today for the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act. This bill provides the tools to quickly fire, demote, or suspend employees found to have warranted such action. It would also allow the VA to recover bonuses and reduce retirement benefits for VA staffers who commit misconduct. America’s veterans have made enormous sacrifices in defense of our freedom. We must stand with them, provide them the services they’ve earned, and hold accountable those who fail to provide proper care.” S. 1094 is expected to be signed into law by President Donald Trump later this week.
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (June 8) upon passage of H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act: “When the Dodd-Frank bill was passed after the 2008 financial crisis, it imposed draconian restrictions on small community banks that are now failing at a rate of one per day,” Westerman said. “It prevented everyday Americans from securing credit to purchase their first home or finance their small business. Dodd-Frank raised the price of basic financial products like checking accounts, putting further strain on cash-strapped households. Simply put, Dodd-Frank hurt hard working taxpayers and protected the 'too big to fail' Wall Street banks. That is why I joined my House colleagues and voted for the Financial CHOICE Act. Arkansas and other rural areas need relief and this bill provides that to consumers.”
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton—along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman—today sent a letter to President Donald Trump supporting Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson’s request for a federal disaster declaration for 31 Arkansas counties following severe storms, flooding and tornadoes in April and May. Governor Hutchinson’s request included the following counties: Baxter, Benton, Boone, Carroll, Clay, Cleburne, Conway, Craighead, Cross, Faulkner, Fulton, Independence, Izard, Jackson, Lawrence, Madison, Marion, Mississippi, Montgomery, Newton, Ouachita, Perry, Poinsett, Prairie, Pulaski, Randolph, Saline, Washington, White, Woodruff and Yell. A signed copy of the letter is attached. The following is full text of the delegation’s letter of support: Dear Mr. President: We are writing in support of Governor Asa Hutchinson’s request for a major disaster declaration for the following counties and cities in the State of Arkansas: Baxter, Benton, Boone, Carroll, Clay, Cleburne, Conway, Craighead, Cross, Faulkner, Fulton, Independence, Izard, Jackson, Lawrence, Madison, Marion, Mississippi, Montgomery, Newton, Ouachita, Perry, Poinsett, Prairie, Pulaski, Randolph, Saline, Washington, White, Woodruff, Yell counties; and Hazard Mitigation statewide. Since April 26, 2017, and through May 19, 2017, the State of Arkansas has experienced a continuing pattern of uncontrollable flooding resulting in severe damages to hundreds of homes across the state. Unfortunately, as a result of these storms, the state has suffered ten fatalities and the displacement of many residents to shelters across the state. As we see in many crises, people have come to the aid of their neighbors; however, the extent of the damage has overwhelmingly surpassed the state government’s ability to respond. Pursuant to the provision of Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5121-5207 (Stafford Act), implemented by 44 CFR § 206.36, we ask that Arkansas receive a major disaster declaration for these counties due to the damages assessed. We urge the approval of Public Assistance (Categories A - G), Individual Assistance (IA), including the Individuals and Households Program (IHP), temporary housing which may include manufactured housing (mobile homes, park models, etc.), Disaster Unemployment Assistance, Disaster Case Management, Disaster Legal Services, Crisis Counseling, Small Business Administration disaster loans, and Hazard Mitigation Statewide. As you know, the State of Arkansas and our communities are working tirelessly to assist citizens in the process of cleaning up and ultimately rebuilding. Resources at the state and local level, including the American Red Cross, the Salvation Army, Arkansas National Guard, Arkansas Game and Fish Commission, Arkansas Forestry Commissions, and the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department, are being fully utilized, but greater federal assistance is needed to help our communities recover. Arkansas is a predominantly rural state and this most recent series of disasters has exceeded the ability of our local governments to respond. The past several years and recent months have been particularly difficult for Arkansas residents due to numerous severe weather events. The State of Arkansas has endured nine state disasters and three federally declared disasters since the beginning of 2015. The assistance received as a result of earlier federal disaster and emergency declarations has been vital, and many of the same communities are still in the recovery process from these earlier disasters. We hope that a similar response will follow this emergent situation. Mr. President, we thank you for your attention to this matter and urge your swift consideration and approval of the state’s request. If you have any questions or need additional information, please do not hesitate to contact us.
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (June 7) upon passage of H.R. 2213, the Anti-Border Corruption Reauthorization Act: “Border security in the United States is one of our most critical current issues, but our border security is dangerously understaffed,” Westerman said. “The ability to fast-track the employment of vetted law enforcement officers into the Border Patrol is vital to meeting its staffing needs. It is my hope that this bill allows veterans and law enforcement officers to continue their service while securing our southern border.”
06.06.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 390, the Iraq and Syria Genocide Emergency Relief and Accountability Act of 2017: “The ongoing conflict with the Islamic State in Iraq and the civil war in Syria have resulted in untold atrocities,” Westerman said. “Evidence of genocide against Christians, Yazidis, and other minority groups in these conflicts have gone largely unreported. That is why I joined my House colleagues today and voted for passage of H.R. 390. Allegations of genocide should be investigated and those responsible should be brought to justice. We should do all we can do aid those that have been the target of such atrocious crimes.”
06.05.2017	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman today announced that 15 Arkansas airports will receive $2.7 million from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to support facility upgrades and expansions. "Infrastructure investments are critical to growth and economic development. These funds will upgrade facilities across the state to better serve the needs of Arkansas businesses and families,” members said. The airports receiving funding are as follows: Ash Flat: Sharp County Regional Airport will receive $134,370 to install navigation aids and rehabilitate airport beacons. Benton: Saline County Regional Airport will receive $82,581 to rehabilitate the apron and taxiway. Berryville: Carroll County Airport will receive $168,983 to rehabilitate the runway. Blytheville: Blytheville Municipal Airport will receive $172,800 to rehabilitate the apron and taxiway. Brinkley: Frank Federer Memorial Airport will receive $72,000 to rehabilitate the runway. Carlisle: Carlisle Municipal Airport will receive $206,392 to install weather reporting equipment and rehabilitate the taxiway. Clarendon: Clarendon Municipal Airport will receive $83,385 to install perimeter fencing. Clarksville: Clarksville Municipal Airport will receive $332,526 to reconstruct runway lighting and install runway vertical/visual guidance system. DeWitt: DeWitt Municipal Airport Whitcomb Field will receive $172,077 to rehabilitate the apron, runway and taxiway as well as conduct an aeronautical survey for a new Runway Area Navigation (RAV) approach. Dumas: Billy Free Municipal Airport will receive $337,793 for taxiway construction. Manila: Manila Municipal Airport will receive $297,000 to rehabilitate the taxiway. Melbourne: Melbourne Municipal- John E Miller Field Airport will receive $165,535 to construct a taxiway. Piggott: Piggott Municipal Airport will receive $94,950 to install airport beacons. Siloam Springs: Smith Field Airport will receive $208,265 to install runway vertical/visual guidance system and reconstruct perimeter fencing. Springdale: Springdale Municipal Airport will receive $175,766 to reconstruct runway lighting and rehabilitate the runway.
06.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04), Chairman Emeritus Rep. Steve Pearce (NM-02), Chief Defense and Interior Officer Rep. Chris Stewart (UT-02), and Western Caucus members Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06), Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Rep. Andy Biggs (AZ-05), Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Rep. Liz Cheney (WY-At Large) and Rep. Ralph Abraham M.D. (LA-05) released the following statements in response to President Donald J. Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement: “I am thrilled by President Trump’s withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement. It is high time that we do away with this unconstitutional treaty negotiated by former President Obama,” said Chairman Gosar. “Withdrawing from the agreement shows the American people and the world that he means business, follows through on his promises, and puts America first. From the American Energy Independence Executive Order to repealing a multitude of onerous rules and regulations, President Trump and his Administration have already made excellent progress to roll back Obama’s attack on affordable energy. Ringing up with a price tag of nearly a trillion dollars a year to reduce the average global temperature by one third of one degree, this bad investment defied commonsense with embarrassing returns. I don’t care what shade of lipstick you put on this pig, at the end of the day it’s still a pig and I’m glad to see this out of touch pipedream put out to pasture once and for all.” “I applaud the Administration's decision to lead like America has historically led...by example. The United States can be more effective illustrating to the rest of the world what sound environmental stewardship looks like by innovating and continuing to be the best when we lead and set the standard versus signing agreements with foreign governments and allowing others to direct how we operate,” said Congressman Westerman. Congressman Pearce remarked, "Since day one, the Paris Climate agreement has been unattainable for New Mexico and our nation. This Agreement will force American energy producers to dramatically change their business or shut down, ultimately limiting options for families across New Mexico and the nation, while allowing some of the worst global actors to take action as they see fit. Any agreement the United States enters into regarding climate or emissions must ensure affordable and reliable energy is available to everyone. We all agree that we want clean air and clean water, but the United States cannot saddle the global burden of change on the backs of the American people." “President Trump made the right call,” said Congressman Stewart. “The heroic claims of the Paris Agreement do not match reality. At best, the agreement is a feel-good measure that will have nearly zero benefit. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which organized the Paris Agreement, calculates that if every nation abides by the agreement for the next 15 years global temperature rise would be slowed by a mere .07 degrees Fahrenheit. Adding insult to injury, researchers at Stanford peg the cost of compliance at $154 billion to the U.S. economy per year and a trillion dollars globally. The Paris Agreement is a boat anchor that will increase the cost of energy and make it harder to get poor people around the world out of poverty." Congressman Emmer remarked, “A one-size-fits-all carbon emission reduction policy simply doesn’t work. Thankfully, Minnesota has already taken great strides in addressing this issue and has recently reduced emissions by nearly 15 percent over ten years. Minnesota is continuing its efforts of reducing carbon emissions, including steps taken by a coal fired power plant in my district to convert to natural gas. I support states implementing changes to do what works for them to reform our energy system with environmentally friendly policies that maintain our beautiful land and streams for future generations, while still allowing for maximum economic benefit.” “I applaud President Trump for standing up for the interests of the American worker and withdrawing from the United Nations’ Paris Climate Change Agreement. This agreement was poorly negotiated by the Obama Administration and is simply a bad deal for the American people. It punishes hardworking Americans with higher energy costs, fewer jobs and smaller paychecks while providing virtually no meaningful benefit to the environment and doing very little to hold the world’s top polluters, like China, accountable,” stated Congressman Babin. “Furthermore, it would uniquely hurt the people of the 36th District of Texas by threatening the many good-paying jobs provided by our area’s petrochemical and refining facilities. While this decision will not sit well with out-of-touch liberal politicians and pro-U.N. globalists, President Trump was elected to put American workers first and turn back such bad deals that undermine U.S. competitiveness and jobs.” Congressman Gohmert said, "The reason that over a hundred nations around the world are demanding that we be part of the Accord as with Kyoto and others, and that these agreements don't work without the U.S. being a party, is because the U.S. is the main country required to send checks to all the others. It is grossly unfair to American citizens and businesses and intentionally makes them far less competitive. In other words, it is the typical leftist agenda of punishing the most innovative and productive." Congressman Biggs said, “This afternoon, President Trump followed through on another significant promise to the American people by removing the nation from the Paris Climate Agreement. This agreement was the capstone of the Obama Administration’s attempt to circumvent the constitutional powers of Congress and the antithesis of job creation and American energy production. By withdrawing from the agreement, President Trump has signaled to foreign powers and bureaucrats that the United States will not be subject to unattainable and unproductive environmental standards that will have a detrimental effect on hard-working Americans and do not come with a guarantee of compliance from other nations. I applaud President Trump for his forward thinking, commitment to his promises, and protection of American sovereignty.” Congressman Lamborn said, “The President has every right to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement, and I applaud this decision which keeps the United States from being beholden to an international organization. The Paris Climate Agreement, which was never ratified by the Senate, is a non-binding agreement that has proven expensive to taxpayers without improving environmental practices. I support the sovereignty of the United States on environmental issues, and I believe that we can chart our own course with an all-of-the above energy strategy that includes renewables for responsible energy development.” “I strongly support President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement. This agreement imposed emissions standards that would have devastated America's fossil fuel industry with no measurable impact on the climate. The agreement was based on flawed science and its purpose was to kill our coal industry. President Trump was right to pull out of this damaging agreement," said Congresswoman Cheney "While the benefits of today's decision will continue to be felt in Wyoming in the form of increased energy development, exploration and job creation our work is not finished. We must continue our efforts to roll back disastrous policies such as the Clean Power Plan, and other components of the Obama-era war on fossil fuels that have resulted in more regulation, higher costs, and government control of our energy sector in Wyoming and across America.” “I applaud President Trump’s decision to withdraw from this bad deal. I agree with him that we need to put the well-being of American workers and our economy first,” said Congressman Abraham. Background: Chairman Gosar and various members of the Congressional Western Caucus previously called on President Trump to completely withdraw from the Paris Agreement. One of those signed letters can be found HERE. (Courtesy of the White House) The Paris Accord is a bad deal for Americans, and the President’s action today is keeping his campaign promise to put American workers first. The Accord was negotiated poorly by the Obama Administration and signed out of desperation. It frontloads costs on the American people to the detriment of our economy and job growth while extracting meaningless commitments from the world’s top global emitters, like China. The U.S. is already leading the world in energy production and doesn’t need a bad deal that will harm American workers. Undermines U.S. Competitiveness and Jobs According to a study by NERA Consulting, meeting the Obama Administration’s requirements in the Paris Accord would cost the U.S. economy nearly $3 trillion over the next several decades. By 2040, our economy would lose 6.5 million industrial sector jobs – including 3.1 million manufacturing sector jobs It would effectively decapitate our coal industry, which now supplies about one-third of our electric power The deal was negotiated badly, and extracts meaningless commitments from the world’s top polluters The Obama-negotiated Accord imposes unrealistic targets on the U.S. for reducing our carbon emissions, while giving countries like China a free pass for years to come. Under the Accord, China will actually increase emissions until 2030 The U.S. is already a Clean Energy and Oil & Gas Energy Leader; we can reduce our emissions and continue to produce American energy without the Paris Accord America has already reduced its carbon-dioxide emissions dramatically. Since 2006, CO2 emissions have declined by 12 percent, and are expected to continue to decline. According to the Energy Information Administration (EIA), the U.S. is the leader in oil & gas production. The agreement funds a UN Climate Slush Fund underwritten by American taxpayers President Obama committed $3 billion to the Green Climate Fund - which is about 30 percent of the initial funding – without authorization from Congress With $20 trillion in debt, the U.S. taxpayers should not be paying to subsidize other countries’ energy needs. The deal also accomplishes little for the climate According to researchers at MIT, if all member nations met their obligations, the impact on the climate would be negligible. The impacts have been estimated to be likely to reduce global temperature rise by less than .2 degrees Celsius in 2100. (Courtesy of the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service) The Paris Agreement to address climate change internationally entered into force on November 4, 2016 and has been accepted by 147 parties. The Paris Agreement is a subsidiary to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), a broader, framework treaty entered into during the George. H. W. Bush Administration. Unlike the UNFCCC, which received the Senate’s advice and consent in 1992, President Obama never submitted the Paris Agreement to the Senate for approval. Instead, the Obama Administration appears to have treated the Paris Agreement as an executive agreement, which the President may unilaterally execute, rather than a treaty, which requires the advice and consent of the Senate. (The key distinctions are analyzed in this report and infographic). No legislation implementing the UNFCCC or the Paris Agreement into domestic law has been enacted, nor has the executive branch asserted that the provisions in either are self-executing, a term used to describe international obligations that have the force of domestic law without subsequent congressional action. Rather, the commitments made by the United States under the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement have been carried out domestically through pre-existing legislation, including the Intermodal Surface Transportation Energy Efficiency Act of 1991 and the Clean Air Act. Under domestic law, the requirements for withdrawal depend on the type of agreement. For executive agreements, the President has generally terminated such agreements without authorization from the legislative branch, and this practice has not been challenged by Congress or the Senate. (Courtesy of the Washington Times) A peer-reviewed study [found] that implementing all provisions of all signers to the Paris Agreement would prevent only 0.306 degrees Fahrenheit of global warming by 2100. What would it cost? Unofficial estimates by the United States, European Union, Mexico and China amount to $739-$757 billion per year. Those parties account for about 80 percent of signatories’ emissions reduction pledges. Other pledges would have similar costs per unit, implying something in the range of $185-$189 billion. All told, $924-$946 billion. Per year. Every year from 2030 to the end of the century. “And that’s if the politicians do everything right. If not, the real cost could double.” So, for $65-$132 trillion, we might — if the alarmists are right — reduce global average temperature by a third of one degree by 2100. That is $212-$431 billion per thousandth of a degree of cooling.
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (May 25) following passage of several bills aimed at tackling child exploitation: “Protecting our children is one of my top priorities,” Westerman said. “In Congress, we are doing our part to guard America’s children. This week, we passed a package of bills that will safeguard our children, target criminals who prey on the innocent, and strengthen laws to put a halt to human trafficking. If we are to stop criminals from targeting our youth, we must continue to work on ways to toughen our laws. I believe these bills do just that.” The following bills were passed in the House this week: H.R. 1862, Global Child Protection Act of 2017; H.R. 1842, Strengthening Children’s Safety Act of 2017; H.R. 1188, Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2017; H.R. 883, Targeting Child Predators Act of 2017; H.R. 695, Child Protection Improvements Act of 2017; H.R. 1625, TARGET Act; H.R. 1808, Improving Support for Missing and Exploited Children Act of 2017; H.R. 1370, Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act of 2017; H.R. 2473, Put Trafficking Victims First Act of 2017; H.R. 1973, Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse Act of 2017; and H.R. 1761, Protecting Against Child Exploitation Act of 2017.
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (May 23) upon the passage of a collection of bills benefitting veterans: “The men and women who have fought for our country have made sacrifices on behalf of freedom,” Westerman said. “That is why we must stand up for our veterans and make sure they receive the benefits they have earned. The bills passed today make meaningful reforms to the Veterans Administration, creates accountability within the agency, and addresses other pressing veteran concerns. We cannot fully repay the gratitude owed to America’s heroes, but these bills attempt to make good on our promise to take care of those who sacrificed for the red, white, and blue.” The following eight bills were passed Tuesday and will now go to the Senate for consideration: H.R. 2052, the PRIVATE Act; H.R. 467, the VA Scheduling Accountability Act; H.R. 1005, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health care services for veterans; H.R. 1162, No Heroes Left Untreated Act; H.R. 1329, Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2017; H.R. 2288, Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017; H.R. 1545, VA Prescription Data Accountability Act; and H.R 1725, Quicker Veterans Benefits Delivery Act of 2017.
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement upon passage of the American Health Care Act: “This bill is not final, but instead the beginning of a process to repeal Obamacare and put in place conservative legislation that gives Americans freedom in health care. This is a change of course from Obamacare that had us on a path to single payer, government run healthcare. As this bill moves through the Senate and others are introduced in the House, I commit to continue working with my colleagues and the White House to fulfill our promise to Arkansans and the rest of America – a repeal of Obamacare and a free market approach to health coverage.”
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (May 3) in response to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ approval of the Lake Ouachita Water Supply: "Since taking office in January 2015, I have worked with the U.S. Corps of Engineers to complete the Lake Ouachita Water Supply Storage Reallocation Report and Environmental Assessment. I am excited to see the relocation study completed and recommendations for a new water supply affirmed," Westerman said. "A long-term, sustainable water source for Hot Springs, all of Garland County, and the surrounding areas is essential for our region's health and economy. The completion of this study allows work to begin on a new water source that will supply the region for the foreseeable future."
04.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04), Vice Chairman for Indian Affairs and Oceans Rep. Don Young (AK-At Large), and Western Caucus members Agriculture Committee Chairman Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11), Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06), Rep. Roger Marshall (KS-01), Rep. Aumua Amata (American Samoa-At Large), Rep. Glenn “GT” Thompson (PA-05), Rep. David Valadao (CA-21), Rep. Adrian Smith (NE-03) and Rep. Doug Collins (GA-09) issued the following statements after former Georgia Governor George “Sonny” Perdue was confirmed by the U.S. Senate by a bipartisan vote of 87-11 to serve as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture: “Congratulations to our next Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue on his confirmation this evening. Steeped in agriculture, I am confident that Governor Perdue is the best choice to work with farmers and ranchers throughout the country to ensure affordable and safe domestic food production for American families. As an outspoken supporter of maintaining healthy forests, I am optimistic that Mr. Perdue will work with our next Forest Service Chief to implement an active forest management approach and prevent catastrophic wildfires,” said Chairman Gosar. “Members of the Western Caucus look forward to working closely with our next Secretary of Agriculture. I couldn’t be more pleased to see the Senate confirm someone raised on a farm and that worked in the industry as an adult to lead the Department.” “I congratulate Sonny Perdue on his confirmation as the 31st Secretary of Agriculture. Secretary Perdue’s extensive background in ag combined with his executive experience make him highly qualified for this position. I look forward to working with Secretary Perdue on the many issues of importance to Arkansas farmers and ranchers,” said Congressman Westerman. Congressman Young stated, "I congratulate Governor Perdue on his confirmation and wish him well as he takes charge of an agency so closely connected to the fabric of our nation," said Congressman Don Young. "It's my hope, that as Secretary, he can begin addressing the systematic failures in management by the U.S. Forest Service and restore faith within our nation's many timber communities. For too long, the Forest Service has thumbed its nose at the multiple use mandate -- eliminating countless jobs and new opportunities for growth. This must change and I'm optimistic it can be done under Sonny's watch." “Today is a great day for American agriculture. Secretary Perdue is a strong friend of America's farmers and ranchers, and I know he will work to ensure that agriculture is a top priority in the new Administration,” said Congressman Conaway. “President Trump has made it clear he supports a good farm bill that is delivered on time and includes a strong safety net for our nation’s farmers. That is absolutely critical as rural America struggles against the largest 4-year percentage decline in net farm income since the start of the Great Depression. It is good to have someone at the table fighting on behalf of rural America, and I look forward to working with Secretary Perdue as we develop a strong farm bill that improves the lives of America’s farmers and ranchers.” “Today’s confirmation of Sonny Perdue as our next Secretary of Agriculture is a huge win for farmers in Minnesota and around the country,” said Emmer. “After nearly a decade of struggles due to unnecessary and burdensome regulations, our agriculture community will now see the relief they have been asking for so they can focus on producing and providing for American families. I also applaud Secretary Perdue’s stance on lifting the Cuban embargo for the benefit this would bring to our ag industry, and look forward to working with him on this important issue,” said Congressman Emmer. “I want to congratulate Sonny Perdue on his long-overdue confirmation to Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. His leadership is especially relevant as producers face record world surpluses and depressed farm prices. Throughout this long process, one silver lining has been the broad, bipartisan support shown for Perdue, and support coming from all over the ag community. It shows that agriculture can still put partisanship aside for the good of our country, economy and our producers. I welcome the chance to work hand-in-hand with the Secretary as we help producers navigate existing programs and as we look toward the 2018 farm bill,” said Congressman Marshall. “In addition to farm and nutrition policy, I expect Perdue to be a sound champion for trade, something I have heard time and again from Kansans concerned about our ability to open new markets for products made in Kansas. Secretary Perdue's experience as an exporter and governor leading trade missions will be invaluable as this administration pursues trade policy. As I have said before, Perdue’s background growing up on a farm, his service in the military as a veterinarian, as well as his career in agribusiness and successful tenure as governor, make him a good fit to lead the US Department of Agriculture at this critical time for our nation’s farmers and ranchers.” Aumua Amata stated, “I want to congratulate the new Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue on his confirmation today. I know he will do a great job in leading the USDA.” “I congratulate Secretary Perdue on his confirmation and I look forward to working together,” remarked Congressman Thompson. “His appointment brings executive experience and real world knowledge to the post. In the coming years, and as we write the next Farm Bill, Secretary Perdue will be an important advocate for the agriculture industry and rural America.” “As the Representative for the nation’s leading ag producing district, I am excited the Senate has confirmed Mr. Sonny Perdue as our Secretary of Agriculture and I look forward to working with him and the Department of Agriculture,” stated Congressman Valadao. “Secretary Perdue has the experience and knowledge to lead the department and ensure our farmers and ranchers have the tools and resources they need to feed the country.” “Today’s confirmation of Secretary Perdue is great news for Nebraska agriculture,” remarked Congressman Smith. “At my Farm Bill listening sessions last week, producers made it clear they wanted to see Secretary Perdue confirmed as soon as possible so we can hit the ground running on agriculture policy. With his wide range of experience as a farmer, businessman, and governor, Secretary Perdue is well-positioned to lead the USDA in helping create more opportunity for U.S. producers.” “Sonny Perdue’s confirmation as Secretary of Agriculture represents an outstanding addition to the President’s Cabinet. Secretary Perdue’s leadership at the USDA will bring benefits to agricultural communities across our country, including northeast Georgia’s poultry and livestock industries,” said Congressman Collins. Background: As a result of confirmation by the Senate today, Governor Perdue will be the 31st Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture. An archived webcast of Perdue’s nomination hearing that was held on Thursday, March 23, 2017 can be found HERE. More than 600 organizations representing farmers, ranchers, hunters, conservationists, businesses and other agriculture related fields throughout the country sent a letter supporting his nomination on February 2, 2017. In the letter, these groups made clear their strong support Governor Purdue stating, “There have been 30 Secretaries of Agriculture since the job was created in 1889, and though some were raised on a farm, only two actually lived and worked in agriculture as adults. If confirmed, Sonny Perdue will be number three…Given his background of growing up on a diversified row crop and dairy operation in Central Georgia, his service in the United States Air Force, and his background in founding three agribusiness firms supplying services to farmers, Gov. Perdue is eminently qualified to lead USDA...Gov. Perdue has proved to be a dedicated servant of the concerns of rural America with a long history of supporting rural infrastructure, agricultural water use projects, and proper forest management.”
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement Tuesday (April 4) upon passage of H.R. 1343, the Encouraging Employee Ownership Act of 2017: “Finding and keeping good employees is tough in today’s economy,” Westerman said. “Government red tape should not get in the way of small businesses trying to keep the best and brightest talent. That is why I voted for H.R. 1343, the Encouraging Employee Ownership Act of 2017. This bill increases the threshold for private companies offering their own securities as compensation. If companies are to thrive, they must not only attract but keep top talent. This bill will help companies does that and gives employees a stake in the businesses where they work.” Background on H.R. 1343, the Encouraging Employee Ownership Act of 2017, according to the House Republican Conference: The Rule 701 $5 million threshold, at which companies must provide additional disclosure which make it more expensive for companies to compensate their employees with the company’s stock and put private companies at risk of disclosing confidential financial information, has not been adjusted since 1999. If the disclosure threshold had been adjusted for inflation, it would be almost $7.5 million today. The SEC has the authority to increase the $5 million disclosure threshold via rulemaking changes to the Rule 701 threshold are unlikely without Congressional intervention. H.R. 1343 will allow the employees working for privately held businesses ranging from relatively new start-ups to mature companies to take full advantage of the JOBS Act 12(g) employee shareholder provisions. Increasing the Rule 701 threshold gives private companies more flexibility to reward and retain employees with a company’s securities and permit private companies to keep valuable employee without having to use other methods to compensate them, such as borrowing money or selling securities. Most important, it provides the employees a greater ability to own a piece of the future successes of a company he or she believes in. Updating SEC Rule 701 will encourage companies to attract and retain employees, and offer incentives to their employees, like through deferred compensation arrangements thus allowing greater employee ownership.
04.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) introduced H.R. 1873, the “Electricity Reliability and Forest Protection Act.” The bipartisan bill, cosponsored by Reps. Bruce Westerman (R-AR), Jim Costa (D-CA), Liz Cheney (R-WY) and Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), improves the safety and reliability of the electric grid on federal lands, and reduces the threat of catastrophic wildfires and costly electricity blackouts. “This bipartisan legislation is beneficial for everyone involved, decreasing the risk of blackouts, lowering costs for utilities and the Forest Service and preventing forest fires. A single tree falling on a transmission line can cause blackouts for thousands of homes and spark a fire that devastates a National Forest, but existing red tape can prevent removal of dangerous trees for months. Under this legislation, rural electric co-ops, utilities and municipal power providers will be able to proactively remove hazardous trees before they become problems, not after they’ve caused a fire. I’m pleased to work with Rep. Schrader and our bipartisan coalition to ensure that the federal government works with electric providers to keep the lights on, protect rural communities and keep our National Forests safe,” LaMalfa said. “Properly maintained rights-of-way is essential for public safety and enhancing the reliability of our electrical grid. The LaMalfa-Schrader bill is a no-brainer and this should not be controversial. Preventing forest fires and maintaining a reliable electrical grid should be a priority for everybody. Our utilities need a streamlined and consistent process for being able to get out on the ground and remove hazardous vegetation before it can cause a wildfire. This is exactly what our bill does. State and federal laws require routine maintenance on federal lands, but bureaucratic red tape from federal agencies has been stalling that maintenance, slowing down our electrical utilities’ ability to safely supply dependable electricity.” Schrader stated. “Management of our federal forests and lands is vital to protecting infrastructure, natural resources and American lives. This bill will ensure that commonsense measures are taken to protect power lines, conserve our public lands and reduce the threat of wildfire. I thank Congressmen LaMalfa and Schrader for working together in a bipartisan way to address such an important need, especially in western states where overgrown federal forests can ignite a power line, interrupt electricity service and hurt the environment,” Westerman said. “Proper forest management is crucial for the prevention of wildfires, and this legislation would not only ensure better forest clean-up, but it will enable utilities to safely supply electricity to rural regions of the country,” Costa stated. The bill is endorsed by the Western Governors’ Association, the Edison Electric Institute and the American Public Power Association. Background: Last Congress, H.R. 2358, the “Electricity Reliability and Forest Protection Act,” was introduced by Reps. Ryan Zinke (R-MT) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR). On May 20, 2015, it passed the House in a larger energy package – H.R. 8, the “North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act.”
04.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Executive Vice Chairman Rep. Scott Tipton (CO-03), Chairman Emeritus Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01), Chief Forestry Officer Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04), and Chairman Emeritus Rep. Steve Pearce (NM-02) and Western Caucus member Rep. Steve Scalise (LA-01) released the following statements following the announcement from the Department of the Interior of a proposal to repeal the Obama Administration’s Consolidated Federal Oil & Gas and Indian Coal Valuation Reform Rule in its entirety: Chairman Gosar remarked, “I am thrilled to hear that Secretary Zinke is taking action to roll back another duplicative and costly regulation from the Obama Administration. ONRR’s valuation rule would disproportionately impact small producers by burying them with compliance costs, ultimately driving up energy prices for everyday consumers. By taking steps to repeal this unconstitutional tax on job creators, the Trump Administration continues to follow through on the promise to get America back on the path toward energy independence and job creation.” “The ONRR’s mineral valuation rule added more red-tape, complexity and confusion to an already overly-complicated mineral valuation process, creating a disincentive for responsible development of our natural resources on federal land and ultimately hurting hardworking Americans and their families the most. I am glad to see that Secretary Zinke joins us in recognizing the harmful impact this rule would have on energy producers and consumers alike and has started the process for withdrawing the regulation through the rulemaking process,” Congressman Tipton stated. “The Trump administration should be commended for beginning the process of reversing the impossible regulatory requirements imposed on energy development by this rule. Endless layers of regulation don’t yield greater returns for taxpayers, they paralyze economic activity. In this case, the rule hit marginal producers – the small businesses that support local economies – the hardest,” Congressman Bishop said. “The ONRR Coal, Oil, and gas valuation reform rule does nothing to help consumers. Instead, it would result in high costs for energy used to heat homes, fuel cars, and more. The Interior Department is right to repeal this overreach by the Obama administration. It is my hope that the Interior Department continues to unwind unnecessary and burdensome regulations handed down by an administration bent on protecting a political legacy instead of standing with the American people,” said Congressman Westerman. “These rules are a direct attack on energy production taking place on federal lands and I applaud the Administration’s decision to review them. The valuation rule must be substantially changed or repealed to ensure taxpayers in New Mexico and across the nation are getting a fair return. The proposed rules will reduce federal, state, and tribal royalty revenue and will take away good-paying jobs by making it more difficult to develop domestic energy resources,” said Congressman Pearce. “I am pleased to see the Department of the Interior take action to allow for the affordable and reliable production of energy, bringing American taxpayers more jobs and lower costs.” Congressman Scalise remarked, “Let’s be clear—the ONRR mineral valuation rule was nothing but a shadow tax on American energy. In my home state of Louisiana, it meant reduced state revenue sharing dollars, hindering our ability to make major investments to restore our coast and protect Louisiana families and businesses from devastating storms. I applaud Secretary Zinke’s action to begin withdrawing this damaging rule, and look forward to working with the Department of Interior to promote safe and responsible energy production throughout the U.S.” Background(Courtesy of Western Caucus members Tipton and Scalise as well as westerncaucus.house.gov): Today, April 3, 2016, the Department of the Interior announced a proposal to repeal the Obama Administration’s Consolidated Federal Oil & Gas and Indian Coal Valuation Reform Rule in its entirety On July 1, 2016 the Office of Natural Resource Revenue (ONRR) published its Final Rule for the valuation of federal onshore and offshore oil & gas production, as well as for coal production on federal and Indian lands for the purposes of calculating federal royalties. The agency premised the rule on a need for greater clarity and simplicity in the calculation of royalties owed on produced natural resources. However, the Rule achieves the opposite – injecting uncertainty and arbitrary bureaucracy into complex accounting determinations. In turn, the rule would bankrupt small, independent energy producers, and discourage production on federal lands across the West and offshore in the Gulf of Mexico and Alaska, meaning less revenue for the U.S. Treasury and our nation’s rural communities. On February 13, 2017, Reps. Scott Tipton and Steve Scalise introduced H.J. Res. 71, a resolution of disapproval under the Congressional Review Act that would rescind the onerous rulemaking and prohibit substantially similar rules from being considered. Further information on the bill can be found HERE. Reps. Pearce and Lamborn have led multiple appropriations requests to prohibit funding for carrying out this rule. In 2016, the federal revenue generated from onshore and offshore energy production brought over $5.4 billion to the federal treasury. Despite the regulatory onslaught from the Obama Administration, the energy industry managed to provide well-paying jobs to thousands of Americans and contribute billions of dollars to both the federal treasury and local communities in which the production takes place. When the ONRR’s 247-page Royalty Valuation Rule was finalized on June 30, 2016, the Department of the Interior insisted it was trying to improve and update its regulatory framework. However, rather than simplifying the valuation process, the ONRR rule would impose burdensome, costly, and unnecessary reporting requirements on small oil and gas producers, arbitrarily requiring the collection of unneeded information. In many cases, the rule changes the reporting requirements without changing the method by which natural resources are valued, i.e., the valuation process, which is a perfect example of the government raising the costs of doing business with no tangible benefit to show for it. Especially in a time of low commodity prices, unnecessary and costly government regulations like this with no actual benefit do nothing but raise energy prices, jeopardize America's source of domestically-produced energy, and cost good-paying, quality jobs. Further, the subjective nature of the rule’s language creates more uncertainty, not less, thus increasing the chance that businesses and government bureaucrats will interpret the requirements of the rule differently. This regulation also hits the coal industry very hard in a number of ways. Under prior rules, in non-arm’s length situations coal royalties were based upon public indicators of the value of the coal, such as published coal prices from arm’s length transactions. The United States thus received royalties on the fair market value of the coal. The new rule eliminates any ability to pay royalties based upon arm’s length sales prices for coal, and requires the value of the coal be calculated by starting with the sale price of the electricity. Promulgated under the guise of updating the mineral valuation method to ensure a fair return to the taxpayer for the resources extracted on both federal and tribal lands, as well as offshore sites, the final version of this rule makes one thing clear: the Obama Administration wanted to make it virtually impossible to develop the resources in its vast holdings. If allowed to remain, this rule will lead to further job loss, economic hardship for the hardworking families in our districts, and the loss of an important revenue source for the federal treasury and our local communities.
03.29.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) (AR-04) will host “Coffee with your Congressman” in Hot Springs Village and Sheridan next month. The events will take place at Woodlands Auditorium in Hot Springs Village on April 12 at 8 a.m. and MooMoo’s Café at 120 West Center in Sheridan on April 19 at 9 a.m. “Coffee with the Congressman” is an opportunity for constituents to speak directly with Congressman Westerman about the issues facing the Fourth District. Coffees are free and open to the public. More information about “Coffee with your Congressman” and other events in the Fourth Congressional District may be found by visiting https://westerman.house.gov/about/events. *** Dates, times, and locations subject to change depending on legislative business.
03.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Executive Vice-Chairman Rep. Scott Tipton (CO-03), Chief Defense and Interior Officer Rep. Chris Stewart (UT-02), Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04), Chairman Emeritus Rep. Steve Pearce (NM-02) and Western Caucus members Rep. Liz Cheney (WY-At Large) and Rep. Pete Sessions (TX-32) released the following statements after President Donald Trump signed H.J. Res. 44 into law, legislation that nullifies the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) Planning 2.0 Rule: “The Bureau of Land Management’s Planning 2.0 was out-of-touch and pushed the mute button on the voices of state and local governments whose input on public land use and conservation efforts is invaluable and essential to good stewardship,” said Chairman Gosar. “By signing H.J. Res. 44 into law, President Trump has prevented yet another top-down mandate from taking effect and further departing from a decades-old planning process that ensures that those whose lives are impacted most by these decisions are able to be heard.” “I am proud to see H.J. Res 44, overturning BLM Planning 2.0., signed into law today by President Trump. The rule we overturn today would have had far reaching and damaging implications on public lands and our economy in Wyoming. Planning 2.0 would have given the federal government and radical environmental groups control over land use and resource planning in our state, at the expense of local officials and stakeholders,” Rep. Cheney said. Congressman Tipton said, “The final BLM Planning 2.0 rule diminished the role that state and local governments, whose communities are most directly impacted, have historically played in the land management planning process. Important land management decisions should be made by the people who know the land best – not unelected Washington bureaucrats. With the signing of H.J.Res. 44, the president has delivered an important victory for the West today.” "I applaud today’s signing of H.J. Res 44, making the critical and necessary move to roll back the BLM Planning 2.0 Rule. This rule ignored thousands of meaningful comments submitted by state and local officials. By signing this resolution of disapproval, President Trump is returning power back to the states and local communities,” said Congressman Stewart. “The Bureau of Land Management’s Planning 2.0 Rule was an attempt to write out state and local governments from the land management planning process. The rule would have reduced the federal coordination and consistent application of federal regulations with local regulations. This top-down, Washington knows best approach has not worked, and it would only continue hamstring our ability to properly manage public lands, and create even more bad will between local governments and the federal government,” said Congressman Westerman. “I thank Congresswoman Cheney for introducing this CRA and President Trump for understanding the impact the BLM 2.0 rule would have been detrimental to local government involvement in public lands management.” Congressman Pearce stated, "Over time, we’ve established a set of commonsense regulations that ensure local governments and local communities are prioritized in federal land use planning. The BLM’s proposed rule strips local governments of their ability to coordinate in local land use planning with the agency on behalf of the people. This ultimately weakens input from surrounding communities and local citizens who are directly impacted by the management of federal lands. The BLM Planning Rule clearly prioritizes special interests over the protections of citizens, which is why I support overturning the BLM regulation to preserve the important role that local governments play in federal land use decisions and protect the citizens of New Mexico. I applaud the actions today by President Trump to overturn this BLM regulation." Congressman Sessions remarked, “Today we stopped a misguided rule from the Obama Administration that strips key planning decisions away from local communities and places control in the hands of bureaucrats in Washington. I was proud to be a part of the signing ceremony at the White House this afternoon and I wholeheartedly support President Trump’s efforts to roll back these Obama-era regulations and restore state and local control.” Background: On December 12, 2016 the Obama Administration published another overreaching “midnight regulation” in the form of the BLM’s new Resource Management Rule, commonly referred to as BLM’s Planning 2.0 Rule. The same day the final rule was published, six Western states and a conservation district filed suit to block the new regulation stating that Planning 2.0 “will severely impair their ability to work with the BLM on future planning and management issues.” H.J. Res 44, a joint resolution introduced by Rep. Liz Cheney (WY-At Large), utilizes the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to disapprove and nullify BLM’s Planning 2.0 Rule. The House passed H.J. Res. 44 by a bipartisan vote of 234-186 on February 7, 2017 and the Senate passed the bill by a vote of 51-48 on March 7, 2017. The Congressional Review Act, a law enacted in 1996, requires a simple majority in both Houses as well as a signature by the president and uses expedited procedures that allow for nullification of an entire regulation through a joint resolution that cannot be filibustered. The CRA prevents the rule from continuing in effect and also prevents a substantially similar rule from being reissued. The parliamentarian has advised that all rules submitted during the 114th Congress on or after June 13, 2016, are eligible for review under the Congressional Review Act. The Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 established a process that requires the BLM to develop RMPs in cooperation with state, local and tribal governments. RMPs are typically updated every seven years and determine what actions can take place on BLM land. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service, “247.3 million acres of public land and administers about 700 million acres of federal subsurface mineral estate throughout the nation.” Planning 2.0 changes the BLM’s resource management planning process, and introduces significant uncertainty by creating ambiguous standards and expanding agency discretion. This new rule will complicate effective resource planning while reducing opportunities for meaningful state and local governmental input. Planning 2.0 directs the BLM to perform large “landscape scale” planning efforts that stretch across county and state lines. This new regulation allows radical special-interest groups from other states to have the same influence as county and local officials in the planning process. Planning 2.0 takes planning decisions away from local communities and centralizes those decisions with bureaucrats in Washington D.C.According to the American Action Forum, 4,432 new regulations have been finalized that cost a total of $1,000,000,000,000 and result in 754,208,800 hours of paperwork compliance since 2005. 120,849,512 hours of paperwork came from regulations that were finalized in 2016 alone. With regards to “midnight regulations,” those issued between Election Day and Inauguration Day, a potential cost of $6,000,000,000 worth of regulations was issued by the Obama Administration on eight rules. There were several other “midnight regulations” that have yet to be analyzed and are not included in that staggering cost estimate.
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Paul A. Gosar D.D.S. (AZ-04), Chief Infrastructure and Forestry Officer Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04), Executive Vice Chairman Rep. Scott Tipton (CO-03), Chairman Emeritus Rep. Steve Pearce (NM-02), and Western Caucus members Rep. Doug Collins (GA-09), Rep. Ralph Abraham (LA-05), Rep. Kristi Noem (SD-At Large), Rep. Bill Flores (TX-17), Rep. Glenn “GT” Thompson (PA-05), Rep. Kevin Cramer (ND-At Large), and Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06) issued the following statements in response to the Trump Administration granting a permit for construction of the Keystone XL pipeline: “This shovel-ready project languished for nearly a decade under the misguided, political policies of President Obama. Today is a new day and I am pleased to see President Trump follow through on another promise,” said Chairman Gosar. “Let’s get this pipeline built, create good-paying jobs and ensure energy security for the American people.” Congressman Westerman said, "I congratulate President Trump on approving construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. This is a long-overdue project that is about creating opportunity for private sector jobs and North American energy independence. Today, he sided with hardworking Americans – including Arkansans who have constructed the pipe." Congressman Tipton said, “I welcome the news that the administration has approved the construction permit for the Keystone XL pipeline. It is long past time that this pipeline be completed. Today marks an important win in our fight for American jobs, affordable energy, and U.S. energy security.” “The Keystone XL Pipeline project will create good-paying jobs, lower gas prices, and increase North American energy security. This common sense project will reduce our reliance on oil from unstable countries, which will increase our national security,” said Congressman Pearce. “I’m pleased to see that the Administration move forward with construction and reaffirm their commitment to economic development in America.” “President Trump’s approval for the Keystone XL pipeline opens up new possibilities in our move toward energy independence and a stronger domestic economy, and I welcome his commitment to smart energy options for all Americans,” said Congressman Collins. “The Keystone XL pipeline means more jobs for hardworking people in the oil patch who are ready to go back to work after a painful period of decline in the industry. This is a project that should have been approved years ago, and I applaud President Trump’s decision to move forward with its construction,” said Congressman Abraham. “Access to energy is central to improving our national security and building a more robust economy that offers better jobs and higher wages. Not only does the Keystone XL Pipeline offer these large-scale benefits for our country, its construction will translate into added revenue for cash-strapped South Dakota counties, relief on our roads and rails, and job opportunities for folks across our state,” said Congresswoman Noem. “I’m glad to see President Trump move forward on this critical piece of American infrastructure.” Congressman Flores said, “Building the Keystone XL pipeline will foster economic growth, create thousands of jobs for Americans and enhance energy security for America. Approving the long overdue Keystone XL pipeline allows the United States access to secure, stable oil supplies from a strong North American ally. It will also help reduce our reliance on unstable Middle Eastern energy sources. I applaud President Trump’s approval of Keystone XL and his commitment to advancing a 21st century energy strategy.” Congressman Thompson remarked, “I applaud President Trump for taking action today that will benefit American manufacturers, workers and families. Approval of the Keystone Pipeline and other energy infrastructure projects was held up by political pressures upon the previous administration. This type of artificial red tape must be removed to unleash the true economic potential we have in America." “The Keystone XL Pipeline is a very important piece of national security infrastructure as well as economic and energy infrastructure. It displaces oil from hostile countries with oil from our friendliest, longest neighbor in Canada, and restores parts of that relationship that have been frayed over the past several years,” said Congressman Cramer. “This is another America First infrastructure project, and is further evidence that Donald Trump is a man of action, not just rhetoric.” “I am extremely pleased to hear the Keystone XL pipeline permits have been approved by the new administration. This long overdue infrastructure project will create thousands of jobs, put America on the path to energy independence and bring much needed relief to families across the country through the reduction of energy costs,” said Congressman Emmer. Background: On January 24, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order directing the Secretary of State, Secretary of the Army, and Secretary of the Interior to take the necessary actions to advance the Keystone XL pipeline and to do so in a timely manner. The text of the executive order can be found HERE. On January 26, 2017, the TransCanada Keystone Pipeline resubmitted its application for a Presidential permit to construct, connect, operate and maintain pipeline facilities at the U.S.-Canadian border in Phillips County, Montana. On March 24, 2017 the U.S. Department of State approved the application based on their review that occurred as a result of President Trump’s executive order. More information regarding that approval can be found HERE. The Keystone XL Pipeline will connect western Canada to a distribution center in Oklahoma and to refineries in Illinois and Texas. Conservative estimates from the Obama State Department projected that Keystone XL will support more than 42,000 jobs. Unfortunately, President Obama chose to put the priorities of the extremist special-interest groups ahead of the American people when he blocked the Keystone XL pipeline in 2015 after a seven-year federal review process by his administration. The House of Representatives has voted more than 10 times in recent years to approve the Keystone Pipeline. The U.S. State Department found in January of 2014 for the second time that the pipeline would have no significant impact on climate change. Keystone XL has bipartisan support - even labor unions support it.
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Late Tuesday (March 21), The Hill published an op-ed authored by Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04), which detailed his initial reluctance on the American Health Care Act before coming to support the legislation. “When leaders in the Republican Party introduced the American Health Care Act (AHCA), I was not sold on the legislation,” Westerman wrote. “While it took important steps to repeal and replace ObamaCare, it did not do enough to give individuals and the states in which they live the freedom to do healthcare in a way that works locally instead of depending on mandates from Washington, D.C.” He noted how he has been quietly working behind the scenes with Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and Budget Committee Chair Diane Black to “ensure conservative policies and principles were included in the AHCA.” “When the bill came before the House Budget Committee, I was able to work with others to secure agreements from leadership and President Donald Trump that Medicaid block grants would be included in the final version of the bill scheduled for a vote this week.” Why are Medicaid block grants an important piece of the Obamacare repeal and replace package making its way through Congress? Westerman says it is due to Medicaid’s inflexibility for states, as well as the fact that Medicaid expansion for working age, able-bodied adults has grown at a rapid rate under Obamacare (a population of nearly 368,000 people in Arkansas) while the disabled and elderly have been placed on waiting lists to receive traditional Medicaid coverage and care. “That is why I fought for the introduction of Medicaid block grants in the AHCA,” he explained. “States that accept the block grants would be able to build integrity into their Medicaid programs and would have the regulatory flexibility to design innovative plans that work best for their citizens instead of a one-size-fits-all plan from D.C. Nonsense features like state provider fees designed to simply milk more federal money by charging a state tax on Medicaid services in order to get the federal match dollars should go away under true block granting. By prioritizing state spending, individuals who are in true need would finally be able to get off the waiting list and receive necessary, life-saving care.” To read Westerman’s complete op-ed, visit The Hill by clicking here.
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage Friday (March 10) of H.R. 720, the Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act, the third bill approved by the House this week that would tackle the issue of civil litigation reform: “Frivolous lawsuits have made it difficult for entrepreneurs to do business in America,” Westerman said. “Action has been taken by Congress this week that would tackle this and other problems in our civil litigation system. If we are to once again reestablish America the land of opportunity for entrepreneurs and dreamers, we must continue to improve the environment for job creators, which includes reducing and preventing frivolous lawsuits. In Arkansas, 49 percent of residents work for a small business. These reforms are necessary for each one of them and for all those who aspire to step out and create their own American dream free from frivolous litigation.” Other legislation approved by the House on Thursday (March 9) include H.R. 725, the Innocent Party Protection Act, and H.R. 985, the Fairness in Class Action Litigation and Furthering Asbestos Claim Transparency Act. Summaries of the bills provided by the House Judiciary Committee: H.R. 720: Makes it mandatory for the victims of frivolous lawsuits filed in federal court to be compensated for the harm done to them by the filers of frivolous lawsuits. H.R. 725: Under the bill, federal judges will have greater discretion to decide, early in the case, whether the local defendant can be held liable, and if not innocent local defendants can be released from the case much earlier, saving them time and money. H.R. 985: The bill seeks to maximize recoveries by deserving victims, and weed out unmeritorious claims that would otherwise siphon resources away from innocent parties. Among the legislation’s reforms, the bill requires that classes consist of members with the same type and scope of injury. Additionally, under the proposed legislation, uninjured or non-comparably injured parties can still join class actions, but must do so separately from parties that experienced more extensive injury.
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (March 8) upon notification by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that it would no longer seek use of the former Job Corps center in Royal to house unaccompanied minors: “I am pleased the Department of Health and Human Services listened to the concerns of Garland County residents and local officials,” Westerman said. “This plan by the Obama Administration was ill-conceived and did not take seriously the protests of residents, myself included. I thank my friend, Secretary Tom Price, for his quick action to stop use of this site as a shelter for unaccompanied minors.” On Wednesday, March 8, HHS sent the following notification to Westerman: As you know, the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) at HHS is identifying capacity, should it need to expand, to provide shelter for unaccompanied children referred to its care by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Aggressive management of shelter capacity is a prudent step to ensure that ORR is able to meet its responsibility, by law, to provide shelter for Unaccompanied Children so that the US Border Patrol can continue its vital national security mission to prevent illegal migration, trafficking, and protect the borders of the United States. This email is to update you on the potential use of the vacant Ouachita Job Corps facilities located in Royal, Arkansas as a temporary shelter for unaccompanied children. Upon further review of the facilities, resources available and need, HHS is no longer considering the site for use as a temporary shelter at this time. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions. Thank you. Barbara Barbara Pisaro Clark Acting Assistant Secretary for Legislation U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) and U.S. Representatives Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03) and Bruce Westerman (AR-04) sent a letter today to Secretary of the Department of Energy (DOE) Rick Perry urging him to preserve states’ rights and review the Clean Line project, an energy transmission line that stretches nearly 300 miles across the state of Arkansas. “Throughout your career you have been a champion of states’ rights. This Administration has promised to give a voice back to its citizens. This is a good way to show that commitment,” members wrote. The Arkansas Public Service Commission rejected the energy transmission project, but last year DOE announced a partnership with Clean Line Energy Partners to construct the energy transmission line across Arkansas, Oklahoma and Tennessee using Section 1222 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (P.L. 109-58). This is the first time DOE used this provision to authorize construction and development of this type of project. “Not only are Arkansans facing the prospect of losing their property due to a decision by the federal government, but your department risks codifying into law the practice of federal eminent domain seizures. This dangerous precedent is antithetical to your distinguished record as a champion for states’ rights in the face of federal overreach,” members wrote to Secretary Perry. On Monday, the Arkansas Congressional Delegation continued its fight against this federal overreach by reintroducing the Assuring Private Property Rights Over Vast Access to Lands (APPROVAL) Act, legislation that would require DOE to receive the approval of both the governor and the public service commission of an affected state before exercising the federal power of eminent domain to acquire property for Section 1222 transmission projects. The following is the letter in its entirety: Dear Secretary Perry, We are writing in opposition to the Department of Energy’s (DOE) agreement to participate in the Plains and Eastern Clean Line Project (the project). This nearly 300 mile-long electric transmission line across the state of Arkansas was reviewed and rejected by our state’s Public Service Commission (PSC). Despite this rejection by the state, DOE chose to evaluate Clean Line Energy Partners’ (Clean Line) application for eminent domain through a never-used provision in the Energy and Policy Act of 2005. Under Section 1222, DOE can grant Clean Line eminent domain authority in Arkansas, allowing them to proceed with the electric transmission line. Our objection to Clean Line’s application should not be viewed as a fight against renewable energy; we each understand the importance of having a reliable electricity grid and are strong advocates of a diverse energy portfolio, including wind, solar, hydropower, renewable biomass, and nuclear energy. Likewise, we do not take issue with the building of national infrastructure; robust infrastructure investments, including the enhancement of the electrical grid, are often productive undertakings. Instead, our objections relate to the vast overreach the Obama Administration employed, allowing this project to skip the necessary protections which exist to protect state sovereignty and private property rights. Throughout the history of electric transmission, factors for the approval of these lines have been reviewed and decided at the state level. As the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service has noted: “The location and permitting of facilities used to transmit electricity to residential and commercial customers have been the province of the states (with limited exceptions) for virtually the entire history of the electricity industry. State and local governments are well positioned to weigh the local factors that go into siting decisions, including environmental and scenery concerns, zoning issues, development plans, and safety concerns”[1] . The rejection of the transmission line by Arkansas’s (PSC) forced DOE and Clean Line to resort to using Section 1222. This is the first time DOE has used Section 1222 to authorize the development, construction, or operation of transmission facilities, and the only partnership the Department has (to date) with an entity to do so. According to DOE, “The purpose of the 1222 program is to reduce electric transmission congestion and/or increase electric transmission capacity.” However, the proposed route is not located in a “designated congestion area” as defined in the Federal Power Act, Section 216(a), nor is it in a national interest electric transmission corridor, and therefore does not fit the requirements of the statute. The use of Section 1222 to advance the project limits states’, as well as local communities’, ability to consider and/or mitigate any concerns that may arise. Like many policies that were proposed by the Obama Administration, the DOE/Clean Line agreement is currently tied up in the courts. DOE is involved in a lawsuit, forcing the agency to address the lingering doubts regarding the legal justification for the department’s decision. If these concerns are ignored and the project is allowed to move forward, not only are Arkansans facing the prospect of losing their property due to a decision by the federal government, but your department risks codifying into law the practice of federal eminent domain seizures. This dangerous precedent is antithetical to your distinguished record as a champion for states’ rights in the face of federal overreach. In order to provide clarity to the law and restore rights to all states, we reintroduced the Assuring Private Property Rights Over Vast Access to Land (APPROVAL) Act. The legislation makes it clear that these kinds of projects must receive state approval, thereby restoring the voice of the citizens of Arkansas and all Americans. To help you make an informed decision, we have attached letters of support for the APPROVAL Act from numerous Arkansas organizations who have been or will be negatively affected by this blatant example of government overreach. We hope you will thoroughly review the documents provided and take their concerns to heart. Throughout your career you have been a champion of states’ rights. This Administration has promised to give a voice back to its citizens. This is a good way to show that commitment. We will continue working to halt the project, not only because it violates property rights of Arkansans, but also because it violates the rights of all Americans to have their voices heard at the state and local level. We hope you can appreciate our concerns and work with us to fight against this lingering overreach of the Obama Administration. [1]The Federal Government's Role in Electric Transmission Facility Siting, CRS Report R40657
03.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) and U.S. Representatives Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03) and Bruce Westerman (AR-04) today will introduce legislation to restore the right of states to approve or disapprove of electric transmission projects before the federal government exercises its power to take private property. The Assuring Private Property Rights Over Vast Access to Lands (APPROVAL) Act would require that the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) receive the approval of both the governor and the public service commission of an affected state before exercising the federal power of eminent domain to acquire property for Section 1222 transmission projects. For projects on tribal lands, DOE would have to receive the approval of the impacted tribal government. “The APPROVAL Act allows the voices of Arkansans to be included in decisions that impact their land. If a project is not good for Arkansas, our governor or public service commission should have the power to say ‘no’ instead of being cut out of the process and dictated to by Washington bureaucrats,” Boozman said. "Arkansans have been taking care of their land for generations," Cotton said. "And they should have a say in any decision that affects that land. This bill will empower Arkansans to say no when the federal government tries to ignore their wishes." "Arkansas officials and residents should decide the best use for our state’s land, not the federal government. This legislation places the power to say 'yes' or ‘no’ in the hands of state and tribal governments, and also directs the federal government to use its own resources as much as possible, instead of infringing on the rights of private property owners," Crawford said. “I continue to hear concerns from our state and local officials about the impact of the Clean Line project and its effect on private landowners in Arkansas. The APPROVAL Act will ensure that our state leadership has the final say in granting permission for these types of energy transmission projects across our state,” Hill said. “In 1792, President James Madison wrote that ‘government is instituted to protect property of every sort,’ and nearly 225 years later, the concept of private property is still integral to who we are as a nation,” said Womack. “I am proud to once again be the House original sponsor of the APPROVAL Act, which will grant American landowners and their states a voice before the federal government takes their land using eminent domain. Too many Arkansans risk losing their land and livelihood to Section 1222 projects, and I will always do what I can to preserve individual property rights and power in the people.” “The right to private property is fundamental to a free society. Unfortunately, the federal government continues to show little respect for this important personal liberty,” said Westerman. “I strongly support the APPROVAL Act because it safeguards landowners from the threat of having their property taken through eminent domain. This bill provides flexibility and empowers our states by ensuring they have the final say on eminent domain. I hope to see this legislation move through Congress in a timely manner.” In addition to allowing states the ability to reject the use of federal eminent domain for a project, the APPROVAL Act would ensure to the extent possible, that approved projects are placed on federal land rather than on private land. Specifically, for approved projects, DOE would be required (to the maximum extent possible) to site projects on existing rights-of-way and federal land managed by: (1) the Bureau of Land Management, (2) the U.S. Forest Service, (3) the Bureau of Reclamation, and (4) the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The decision to permit electric transmission projects has long been the responsibility of the individual states. As noted in a 2011 report from the non-partisan Congressional Research Service, “The location and permitting of facilities used to transmit electricity to residential and commercial customers have been the province of the states (with limited exceptions) for virtually the entire history of the electricity industry.” The report says that state and local governments are “well positioned” to understand the concerns of the area and the factors for making a decision on these projects. Since the Arkansas Congressional Delegation first introduced this legislation in 2014, DOE announced a partnership with Clean Line Energy in an energy transmission project across Arkansas, Oklahoma and Tennessee using Section 1222 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (P.L. 109-58). This legislation has the support of the following Arkansas organizations: Jackson County Farm Bureau; Arkansas Rice Federation; Arkansas Soybean Association; Poinsett County Conservation District; Riceland Foods, Inc; USA Rice; Agriculture Council of Arkansas; AgHeritage Farm Credit Services; Farm Credit Midsouth; Farmers Supply Association; Arkansas Association of Conservation Districts; Farm Credit of Western Arkansas and First Commercial Bank/Cross County Bank.
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) will host a telephone town hall event on Thursday, March 9, 2017, at 7 p.m. Central Standard Time. The call will last approximately one hour. During the telephone town hall, residents of the Fourth Congressional District of Arkansas will be able to ask Westerman questions on a wide range of topics, from healthcare and tax policy to government spending and national security. Residents of the Fourth District who would like to participate may sign up at westerman.house.gov to receive a call. A live audio stream will be available during the call at video.teleforumonline.com/video/streaming.php?client=14387.
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (March 2) on H.R. 998, the SCRUB Act: “Burdensome regulations handed down by bureaucrats in Washington are a drain on the livelihood of millions of Americans,” Westerman said. “If we are to grow our economy and give Americans the opportunity to work high-wage jobs, we must reduce the number of regulations coming out of Washington. That is why the House approved the SCRUB Act this week, a bill that would task a commission with identifying regulations that are not working for the American people and strangling economic growth. In order to compete in the global job market, we must have a regulatory framework that makes sense and this bill does just that.” Bloomberg reports that federal “agencies would be required to repeal existing regulations to offset the cost of new rules under H.R. 998.” The SCRUB Act passed the House on Wednesday (March 1) by a bipartisan vote of 240 – 185.
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon confirmation of Congressman Ryan Zinke (MT-At-Large) as the next Secretary of the Interior: “Ryan’s dedication to our federal lands has been evident since we came to Congress together in 2015,” Westerman said. “I’ve watched his work on the Natural Resources Committee, standing for conservation and our public lands. I look forward to continuing to work with him in this new role and crafting policies backed by the president.”
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (February 28) after attending President Donald Trump’s first address to a joint session of Congress: “The President tonight brought us his vision for lower taxes, job growth through a less burdensome regulatory environment, and improved health care options for the American people,” Westerman said. “Congress must work together – with the President and our colleagues on the right and left – to execute the will of the American public. They elected us to disrupt the system and start working for everyday people. I believe the vision laid out tonight accomplishes that mission and I look forward to working with Speaker Ryan and President Trump to make it happen.”
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) testified Tuesday (February 28) before the House Appropriations Interior Subcommittee on the need for greater funding for forest management programs and on-the-ground scientific research. “There are no negatives to a healthy forest system,” Westerman said. “Healthy forests provide clean air and water, sequester carbon at greater rates, promote recreational opportunities, and increase biodiversity. They also produce a steady supply to our nation’s forest products industry, which employs 2.8 million people nationwide along with an annual payroll of $87 billion, accounting for 5.7% of total US manufacturing. “Unfortunately, the US Forest Service has moved away from its original mission of managing our national forest system in a scientifically sound manner, and that includes a dramatic decrease in timber harvesting. For example, last year, the Forest Service sold a mere 3 billion board feet of timber—around ¼ the amount sold 30 years ago. “The result of this shift in focus is clear. Drought and overcrowding leave the forests susceptible to insect and disease infestation, and make them more vulnerable to catastrophic wildfires. These fires destroy wildlife habitat, radically alter ecosystems, decrease carbon storage, and force taxpayers to pay hundreds of millions of dollars annually in increased fire suppression costs. “Therefore, it is time for the Forest Service to return to its core mission, and place a greater emphasis on scientific management, which includes more timber harvesting, mechanical thinning, and prescribed burns.” Westerman’s prepared remarks are available for download (.pdf) by clicking here. Video of his testimony may be viewed here.
02.23.2017	HOPE, Ark. — The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development announced Thursday (February 23) an FY16 Emergency Disaster Grant in the amount of $2,957,100 to the Hope Housing Authority. According to HUD, the HACH has been increasingly experiencing repetitive maintenance issues that are a direct result of the aging sewer line materials and excessive soil movements due to the large amount of storm water runoff that is not being adequately directed away from the dwelling units. With most units having been constructed in 1966, the useful life of the ductile iron and vitrified clay pipe has reached its useful lifespan. Due to the risk for disease associated with the exposure of raw sewage, mold due to excessive moisture within the building envelope, and infection of viruses spread by mosquitos, the HACH is in an emergency situation. As a result, HUD is classifying the building waste water collection system and sewer repairs and related work as emergency work because of the limited capital funding that is currently available to HACD which results in an unpreventable emergency endangering the lives and safety of the residents. “This funding allows for critical repairs to improve living conditions for Hope citizens,” U.S. Sen. John Boozman said. “I am pleased to support this investment that enables the Hope Housing Authority to continue providing safe and affordable housing.” “It’s alarming that our fellow Arkansas are living in such deplorable conditions,” U.S. Sen. Tom Cotton said. “I applaud HUD for awarding this grant, which will allow so many families to finally live in decent homes.” “I am pleased HUD has awarded nearly $3 million to the Hope Housing Authority,” Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) said. “This is an opportunity to invest in infrastructure which will solve longstanding drainage problems and improve quality of life for citizens of the Fourth Congressional District.” According to HUD, Public Housing Emergencies – Capital Fund related physical work items resulting from an unpreventable or unforeseen emergency that pose an immediate threat to life, health, or safety of residents, or property (including fire safety), and that must be corrected within one year of funding. Emergencies are funded through a special set aside of the Capital Fund which for FY16 is $16.5 million.
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman introduced H.J. Res. 82 on Thursday (February 16), a bill that would block the Bureau of Land Management’s Onshore Order 4 Rule. “The BLM’s latest regulation creates high-priced edict for oil storage and handling on federal lands,” Westerman said. “The latest version of the Onshore Order 4 Rule underestimates the impact on the economy, reduces public input, and will lead to the use of outdated oil measurement technology on federal lands. Additionally, this ill-conceived Obama Administration regulation fails to abide by industry-wide standards. H.J. Res. 82 will repeal this unnecessary rule, and ensure that the thousands of jobs reliant on access to resources on federal lands are not put in jeopardy.”
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage of H.J. Res. 43, a bill providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the final rule submitted by Secretary of Health and Human Services relating to compliance with title X requirements by project recipients in selecting subrecipients: “Grants issued using taxpayer dollars should not fund abortion providers, yet a midnight rule from the Obama Administration would have allowed such a travesty,” Westerman said. “Through the Congressional Review Act, the House spoke with a loud voice today, standing for life. As your member of Congress, I will continue to vote for Arkansas values.”
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (February 15) upon passage of H.J. Res. 42, disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of Labor relating to drug testing of unemployment compensation applicants: “I believe in times of struggle, we should give a hand up not a handout,” Westerman said. “A drug test is a simple measure to ensure that those seeking assistance are abiding by our laws and not seeking to abuse a system meant to provide temporary help. Passage of today’s resolution allows states to continue what is standard in many job sites across this country and stops a federal overreach by the Labor Department.”
02.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement Monday (February 13) upon passage of the BRAVE Act, the HIRE Vets Act, and the WINGMAN Act: “The men and women who serve our nation in uniform make incredible sacrifices in defense of freedom,” Westerman said. “We must honor their courage and commitment to our country by taking care of them. On Monday, the House of Representatives passed a series of bills that would prioritize the hiring of veterans and streamline casework. America must always take care of those who defend our freedom and that is why I was glad to cast my vote for these bills.” A description of each bill, according to the House Republican Conference: H.R. 244, HIRE Vets Act: “… would require the Department of Labor (DOL) to establish the HIRE Vets Medallion Program, within one year of enactment, to annually recognize businesses for their efforts to employ veterans. DOL would make awards to employers, on a voluntary basis, who recruit, employ, and retain veterans; and provide community and charitable services supporting the veteran community. Employers would earn either platinum or gold status based on requirements related to the number of veterans hired each year, if they provide pay equity for Guardsmen and Reserve employees who were called up to active military service, and if certain other requirements are met.” H.R. 512, the WINGMAN Act: “… would enable congressional staff, which would include staff sometimes referred to as ‘caseworkers,’ to have ‘read only’ access to veterans’ records in the databases of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA), if the veteran provides permission to the Congressional office to allow their records to be accessed. This would enable staff, who are already certified to access these records, to bypass the step of having to use the VA as a intermediator to receive them.” H.R. 974, the BRAVE Act: “… would allow the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, when awarding procurement contracts for good or services, to give preference to government contractors that employ veterans on a full-time basis.”
02.06.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Monday (February 6) upon passage of H.R. 387, the Email Privacy Act of 2017: “In the 30 years since the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 was signed into law, our world has changed and advanced in ways that were unimaginable,” Westerman said. “Our nation’s electronic privacy laws were written in a day and age before social media and mass communication were accessible with the tap of a finger. That is why I voted today for the Email Privacy Act, which would update the ECPA to modern standards in order to protect the privacy of the American people and provide law enforcement the tools needed to properly and legally investigate crime. Not only does the EPA update a 30-year-old law, but it makes sure the law continues to keep pace with technological advances while protecting the constitutional rights of Americans.” According to the House Republican Conference, key provisions of the bill include: Warrant requirement: The bill creates a uniform warrant standard for law enforcement to obtain the content of communications in criminal investigations. ECPA warrants will continue to be executed with the provider since, as with any other third-party custodian, the information is stored with them. It allows the provider to notify its customers of receipt of a warrant, court order, or subpoena, unless the provider is court ordered to delay such notification. Remote Computing Services: The bill maintains current law that delineates which remote computing service providers – or cloud providers – are subject to the warrant requirement for content in a criminal investigation. ECPA has traditionally imposed heightened legal process and procedures to obtain information for which the customer has a reasonable expectation of privacy, namely emails, texts, photos, videos, and documents stored in the cloud. Allows Law Enforcement to Access Public Information: ECPA currently makes no distinction between content disclosed to the public, like an advertisement on a website, versus content disclosed only to one or a handful of persons, like an email or text message. The result is that law enforcement would be required to obtain a warrant even for publicly-disclosed content. The bill clarifies that commercial public content can be obtained with process other than a warrant. Maintains Congress’s investigative power: The bill clarifies that nothing in the law limits Congress’s subpoena authority to obtain information from third parties in furtherance of congressional oversight.
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) joined a bipartisan group of congressmen Thursday (February 2) for the launch of the Working Forests Caucus in the 115th Congress. Thursday’s launch featured a roundtable discussion of tax policy and its impact on the future of working forests. Speakers included caucus member Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), chair of the House Republican Conference; caucus co-chairs Westerman, Reps. Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Sanford Bishop (GA-02), and Collin Peterson (MN-07); and forestry experts from across the country. The caucus was formed during the 114th Congress to advocate for working forests across the United States. These include highlighting the economic, environmental, and social benefits of private working forests, and supporting policies to promote this renewable resource. According to the American Forest and Paper Association, the forest products industry accounts for four percent of U.S. manufacturing GDP annually, manufacturing more than $200 billion in products and employing 900,000 people each year. Updates to the tax code, as well as changes in how the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) treats forest biomass and declaring it carbon neutral, are goals of the caucus. A total of 68 bipartisan Members of Congress from all over the United States are members of the Working Forests Caucus. “As a professional forester in a district more than 80 percent forested, I know how important working forests are to the economy of Arkansas,” Westerman, a Yale-educated forester, said. “Working forests are our nation’s number one renewable resource. Healthy working forests promote clean air and water. There is no downside to a healthy forest. Through my work in the Working Forests Caucus, I will be a voice for the Fourth District of Arkansas and the thousands employed in the forest products industry.” “Our communities in Southwest Washington rely on responsible timber management, made possible by the magnificent forests that surround us,” Beutler said. “Today we launched the bipartisan Working Forests Caucus in order to bring science-based management to our forests that will sustain this wonderful resource as well as good, family-wage jobs for generations to come.” "I am proud to join my colleagues in re-forming the Working Forests Caucus for the 115th Congress,” Bishop said. “This caucus is an invaluable forum for the wood products industry, including forest owners, tree farmers, loggers, and lumber mill operators, to present their unique challenges to Congress and an invaluable forum for Members of Congress to hear these concerns directly from constituents and stakeholders. Georgia has the largest amount of privately-owned forest land in the nation and I look forward to working with the Working Forests Caucus to help preserve this natural and economic resource for generations to come." “Minnesota forest owners and loggers provide a healthy respect for forests while producing some of the finest products in the world,” Peterson said. “The forest industry supports more than 30,000 hardworking people in Minnesota and grows three times as much as is harvested. I am looking forward to the Working Forests Caucus and promoting the benefits of private timberlands for our nation’s rural economy.” A complete list of Working Forests Caucus members may be found here.
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) voted Wednesday (February 1) for H.J. Res. 38 and H.R. Res. 41, resolutions that disapprove of the Department of Interior’s Stream Protection Rule and the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rule relating to “Disclosure of Payments by Resource Extraction Issuers” respectively. “Overreach by the Obama Administration extended into all areas of American life over the last eight years,” Westerman said. “This week, Congress takes action to reverse the overreach of the last administration, protect the American people, and add desperately-needed jobs. Together with President Trump's directive for executive agencies to remove two regulations for every new on they put in place, Congress and the president are working together to put America back to work through less overreach and more freedom.” Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy’s office has scheduled votes Thursday and Friday for the following House Joint Resolutions, which also disapprove of Obama Administration agency rules: H.J. Res. 37: Providing for congressional disapproval of the rule submitted by the Department of Defense, the General Services Administration, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration relating to the Federal Acquisition Regulation; H.J. Res. 40: Providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Social Security Administration relating to Implementation of the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007; and H.J. Res. 36: Providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the final rule of the Bureau of Land Management relating to "Waste Prevention, Production Subject to Royalties, and Resource Conservation." Westerman is a co-sponsor of H.J. Res. 36.
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) has been named to five subcommittees under jurisdiction of the House Committees on Natural Resources and Transportation and Infrastructure. Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) announced Westerman’s appointment Tuesday (January 31) to the Subcommittees on Energy and Minerals and Federal Lands, the latter of which Westerman will serve as vice chairman. “This Congress presents a rare opportunity to advance new and better policies for taxpayers,” Bishop said in a press release announcing subcommittee assignments. “We’ve spent the time to identify the right team of leaders to build upon prior successes and advance creative ideas in this new environment to benefit people. From empowering states, tribes and local communities to enhancing land, water, energy and resource management, and in partnership with new executive leadership, I am proud to make these announcements and eager to tackle the important work before the committee.” Chairman Bill Shuster (PA-09) announced Westerman’s appointment to three subcommittees: Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials; Highways and Transit; and Aviation. “With more than two million acres of federal land in the Fourth District, I am excited to serve as vice chair of the Federal Lands Subcommittee,” Westerman said. “My continued work on the Natural Resources Committee and appointment to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committees give the people of the Fourth District a voice on issues that are of vital importance to our region. We must find long-term solutions to funding our nation’s infrastructure to provide the arteries that connect our resources and manufacturing to markets. I thank Chairmen Bishop and Shuster for these appointments.” Westerman also serves on the House Committee on the Budget.
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (January 31) in response to President Donald Trump’s nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court: “I congratulate Judge Neil Gorsuch on his nomination to the United States Supreme Court,” Westerman said. “As has been noted by President Donald Trump, I believe Judge Gorsuch to be a keen legal scholar who will interpret the Constitution strictly. There has never been a more important time for an originalist justice to be on the court as cases affecting the life of the unborn, religious liberty, and private property rights are decided. I hope the Senate quickly confirms Judge Gorsuch as the next associate justice of the Supreme Court.”
01.27.2017	FORT BLISS, Texas – U.S. Senator John Boozman (R-AR) and Congressmen Steve Womack (AR-03) and Bruce Westerman (AR-04) spent today with Arkansas National Guard members at Fort Bliss, Texas, as the soldiers prepare for overseas deployment. “It was an honor to join Arkansas National Guard members at Fort Bliss as they finalize their training and prepare for their overseas mission. These men and women are making tremendous sacrifices in defense of our nation and I am grateful for this opportunity to share my appreciation for their selfless service. I am proud of these soldiers and pleased to hear about their successful training. My prayers are with them and their families as they deploy and carry out their mission,” Boozman said. “As the former commander of the first overseas deployment of a Guard battalion in the wake of September 11, it is truly an honor to join these brave Arkansans as they finalize mobilization activities. I have a special place in my heart for the Guard and know firsthand the challenges of the M-day soldier and airman. I’ve lived it and unequivocally believe in the Guard’s proven capability and in the ability of these ‘Warriors.’ Both are fundamental to ensuring a safe and successful America in a world where the proliferation of threat is unprecedented,” said Womack. “I am proud of these men and women and am praying for a successful mission and their families back home.” “Keeping America and the world safe from harm through the projection of strength is no easy task,” Westerman said. “The men and women of our armed forces understand that personal sacrifices must be made in order to guarantee this safety. As the men and women of the Arkansas National Guard prepare to deploy overseas, I wanted to personally say thank you. It takes a person of great character to volunteer for service in the military and all of Arkansas should be proud of the service of their fellow citizens in uniform.” Soldiers from the 1st Battalion, 153rd Infantry Regiment of the 39th Infantry Brigade are finalizing mobilization activities. The congressional delegation attended a historic Casing of the Colors and Patch Ceremony to honor the unit’s completion of mobilization and readiness to deploy. Nearly 700 Arkansas National Guard members have been stationed at Fort Bliss since New Year’s Day as they complete stateside training before a deployment to the Horn of Africa in support of U.S. Africa Command (AFRICOM).
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) is seeking spring and summer interns in his Hot Springs and Washington, D.C., offices, he announced Wednesday (January 25). "As a former Congressional intern through a Future Farmers of America fellowship, I know how important internships are in developing engaged citizens and future leaders in America," Westerman said. "I am excited to welcome Fourth District interns to my Hot Springs and Washington offices and look forward to their contributions." In Washington D.C., interns' responsibilities will vary. The Washington office will host three interns during the Summer I and Summer II sessions. Each will be expected to interact with constituents, research legislation for the Member and legislative staff, attend hearings and briefings, and answer constituent letters on various issues before the House. Interns will also draft press releases, assist with media clips, and other work to support the Fourth District office. As a result, interns will learn about the legislative process and the many other functions of a congressional office. The Hot Springs office will host two interns per summer session. In this office, interns may be asked to complete a variety of tasks, including day-to-day office work such as interacting with constituents, writing letters, and assisting with media clips. In addition, interns may be assigned to assist in various constituent casework or District-based projects that are of benefit to constituents. Positions are unpaid, though students will gain invaluable work experience. The hours are flexible to accommodate students’ course schedules, but generally run from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. ET/8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CT. Interns in both Washington and Hot Springs will be responsible for their own travel, housing and living costs. While the office will prioritize candidates from the Fourth District and Arkansas, all applications will be accepted and reviewed. Washington internships are open to students who have completed two years of college. Hot Springs internships are open to high school students who have completed their sophomore year, as well as college students. Summer Session I internships will run from May 22 – July 7, 2017. Summer Session II internships will run from July 10 – August 18, 2017. More information on internships, including an application, may be found at https://westerman.house.gov/services/internships. Applications will be accepted on a rolling basis. Questions about potential internships may be directed to Intern Coordinator Jordan Garcia at 202-225-3772.
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (January 24) upon passage of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Disclosure Act of 2017: “The American people spoke with a loud voice in November and said they are tired of business as usual,” Westerman said. “Not only are they tired of an overreaching federal bureaucracy, but they are tired of their hard-earned tax dollars funding abortions. Today, I joined my colleagues in the House and voted to end this practice. Each life is precious and I will continue to fight for the health of women and the lives of the unborn.”
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Friday (January 13) upon passage of S. Con. Res. 3, a bill which lays the groundwork for a full repeal of the Affordable Care Act: “Obamacare has proven to be a failed policy that is doing more harm than good to the American people,” Westerman said. “The vote today is the first step in dismantling a tangled web of policies that has reduced overall healthcare options while raising costs. If we do nothing, the federal deficit will continue to rise, as will healthcare costs. There is a better approach to healthcare for the American people and it begins with a repeal of Obamacare followed by an open process to debate and overhaul healthcare policy that prioritizes the health needs and fiscal stability of Americans.” According to the House Committee on the Budget: The American people were promised a $2,500 decrease in premiums – instead, avg. family premiums in the employer-sponsored market have soared by $4,300; 18 of the 23 Obamacare co-ops have now failed, leaving only five co-ops still in existence. Almost 1 million Americans have lost health care coverage due to failed Obamacare co-ops; This year, five states – Alabama, Alaska, Oklahoma, South Carolina, and Wyoming – will have only one insurance provider; and Access to care is more limited since Obamacare took effect, as more health plans narrow networks.
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) has been named to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Chairman Bill Shuster (PA-09) announced Friday (January 13). “Congressman Westerman brings a wealth of relevant experience to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and his engineering background in particular will provide us with a unique and fresh-perspective,” Shuster said. “Bruce has proven himself to be a problem solver and a hard worker since taking office, and I look forward to his contributions as we work to ensure America has a 21st century infrastructure.” An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional Engineers. In a statement, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan called Westerman “the perfect choice” for the committee. “As a professional engineer by trade, Bruce is the perfect choice for the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee,” Ryan said. “His first term proved he’s a thoughtful leader with innovative strategies. I know Bruce will play an important role on this committee while continuing his good work on the Budget and Natural Resources committees.” Westerman said he would work to improve infrastructure across the Fourth Congressional District as a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “Transportation and infrastructure are issues of vital importance to the Fourth Congressional District of Arkansas,” Westerman said. “With our district’s varied infrastructure, it is important to have a voice on the committee of jurisdiction. That is why I advocated joining the T&I Committee. We must work to improve maintenance along the Fourth District’s navigational channels, find a permanent solution for funding our roads and bridges, and protect our important pipeline and railroad infrastructure. I want to thank Chairman Shuster, the Steering Committee, and Speaker Ryan for this appointment.” In addition to Transportation and Infrastructure, Westerman will continue serving on the House Committee on the Budget and the House Committee on Natural Resources. He began his second term in the U.S. House of Representatives on January 3, 2017.
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (January 12) upon passage of H.R. 238, the Commodity End-User Relief Act: “The global economy involves risks, but that should not mean Arkansans pay the price when big business gambles,” Westerman said. “The Commodity End-User Relief Act reduces the bureaucratic hurdles that make it expensive and challenging to manage risk. It helps Arkansas farmers and producers keep more men and women employed while at the same time keeping costs low for consumers.” According to the House Committee on Agriculture, H.R. 238: Includes a strong cost-benefit analysis measure to produce better rules; Reduces red tape and provides relief from burdensome requirements that make it more complicated and more expensive for businesses to manage their risks; Prevents America’s farmers, manufacturers, and producers from bearing the brunt of the regulatory response for a crisis they did not cause; and Codifies new practices instituted by the CFTC and other market regulators to protect customer margin.
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement Wednesday (December 11) upon passage of H.R. 5, the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017: “The overreach of the federal government is hurting the economy,” Westerman said. “These regulations amount to a burden of $1.89 trillion on the American people, equal to nearly $15,000 per home. During the last eight years, the Obama administration has added more than 600 regulations at a cost of $740 billion and 194 million paperwork hours. That is why I voted for the Regulatory Accountability Act. This bill will require agencies to choose the lowest-cost rulemaking alternatives while allowing for greater public input and vetting of critical information and alternatives. This bill will also repeal the Chevron doctrine, which established rules for judicial review of agency regulations. We must restore the Constitutional authority of Congress endowed by our founding fathers. This bill does that.” According to the House Republican Conference, H.R. 5 would: Require agencies to choose the lowest-cost rulemaking alternative that meets statutory objectives. (Title I—Regulatory Accountability Act); Require greater opportunity for public input and vetting of critical information and alternatives—especially for major and billion-dollar rules. (Title I—Regulatory Accountability Act); Repeal the Chevron and Auer doctrines to end judicial deference to bureaucrats’ statutory and regulatory interpretations. (Title II—Separation of Powers Restoration Act); Require agencies to account for the direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of new regulations on small businesses—and find flexible ways to reduce them. (Title III—Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act); Prohibit new billion-dollar rules from taking effect until courts can resolve timely-filed litigation challenging their promulgation. (Title IV—REVIEW Act); Force agencies to publish online, timely information about regulations in development and their expected nature, costs and timing. (Title V—ALERT Act); and Publish plain-language, online summaries of new proposed rules, so the public can understand what agencies actually propose to do. (Title VI—Providing Accountability Through Transparency Act).
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement Tuesday (January 10) upon passage of H.R. 79, the HALOS (Helping Angels Lead Our Startups) Act: “The passage Wednesday of the HALOS Act is meant to help entrepreneurs launch a business, giving greater access to investors in a competitive marketplace,” Westerman said. “The HALOS Act frees entrepreneurs from regulatory burdens, allowing them to go from concept to marketplace. This legislation is good for business owners, investors, and the people of the Fourth Congressional District of Arkansas.”
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage Thursday (January 5) of H.R. 26, the REINS Act (Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny): “Unelected federal bureaucrats are out of control,” Westerman said. “Writing rules that have the same force as law, they have clearly crossed the lines that divide our separation of powers. As a result, they have imposed overreaching regulations that have cost Americans nearly $2 trillion. Burdensome regulations not only hurt businesses and kill jobs, but hurt consumers when those costs are passed on. That is why the REINS Act is necessary. The bill we passed in the House today requires executive agencies to submit any major regulations to Congress for approval, preventing the executive branch from overreaching into the lives of the American people. Elected representatives should write law, not unelected bureaucrats legislating from the safety of their cubicle tucked away in a big gray building in D.C. where the general public has no recourse.” According to the House Republican Conference, the REINS Act: Requires agencies to submit major regulations to Congress for approval; Guarantees no major regulation becomes effective until Congress approves them; Guarantees fast up or down votes on major rules — Congress must act within 70 legislative days; and Guarantees that there is an additional safeguard – through Americans’ elected representatives – against federal bureaucrats imposing the heaviest burdens on America’s economy.
01.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (January 4) upon passage of the Midnight Rules Relief Act of 2017, H.R. 21: “President Obama has demonstrated time and again that he values his own agenda more than the will of the people or our system of government,” Westerman said. “In his last weeks as president, he has continued to show poor judgment. That is why the Midnight Rules Relief Act is necessary. This bill protects Americans from legislation by the executive branch at the 11th hour and restores constitutional authority to the legislative branch, as our founding fathers intended.”
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement after being sworn in Tuesday (January 3) for his second term as congressman from the Fourth Congressional District of Arkansas: “It is a great honor and privilege to serve the hardworking taxpayers of the Fourth Congressional District,” Westerman said. “As we start the 115th Congress, I will continue the fight to undo President Obama’s executive overreach. I will work with President-elect Donald Trump and my colleagues in Congress to restore Constitutional authority granted to the legislative branch, to simplify our tax code, and to repeal Obamacare once and for all. The next two years will be full of action as I join my colleagues in executing the mandate the American people delivered on November 8th." The official swearing in at noon in the House chamber will be followed by a ceremonial swearing in with Speaker of the House Paul Ryan in the Rayburn Room of the U.S. Capitol. Westerman was joined for the ceremony by his oldest son, Eli. An open house is set to be held Tuesday afternoon at Westerman's Washington office for constituents to have a chance to visit with Westerman and the Fourth District staff. Additional district offices are located in Hot Springs at 101 Reserve Street; El Dorado at 101 N. Washington Street, Suite 406; Ozark at 211 W. Commercial St.; and Pine Bluff at 101 E. 8th Avenue, Room 2521. Office hours are 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. central time.
12.19.2016	HOT SPRINGS – U.S. Sens. John Boozman, Tom Cotton, and Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Monday (December 19) in response to the Department of Health and Human Service’s notification that it could use the former Ouachita Job Corps Center in Royal, Arkansas, as a site to house unaccompanied minors in the United States illegally: “The Department of Health and Human Services should not use the Ouachita facility to shelter unaccompanied illegal immigrant minors,” they said. “This is irresponsible and against the wishes of Arkansans who were not consulted about this decision. HHS is unable to provide basic information about who may reside at this facility, where these immigrants come from, or how long this shelter will last, and the potential risk to public safety is enormous. That is why we are calling on HHS to immediately halt any plans to use this facility as an immigration shelter. There are safer options for this facility that would be better for the community and Arkansas."
12.07.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act: “WIIN is an important bill for the people of Arkansas,” Westerman said. “It invests in water infrastructure in a fiscally-responsible manner. By passing the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, we are investing in projects like the feasibility study on the navigability of the Ouachita-Black River System and continued authorization for the Three Rivers Study. The WIIN Act benefits not only Arkansans, but all Americans through its innovative cost-sharing partnerships with non-federal sponsors that will enhance operation, maintenance, and management of recreation sites. I was proud to vote for this legislation and look forward to its impact in Arkansas.”
12.07.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 2028, a short-term Continuing Resolution (CR): “Passage of today’s Continuing Resolution should not be a sign of business as usual, but instead shows the American people that we are preparing to work with President-Elect Trump to tackle a government that is too large and not working,” Westerman said. “The C.R. gives the Trump administration time to work with Congress to pass spending cuts and make meaningful reforms to tackle mandatory spending programs that are seeing explosive growth in costs. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the coming months on ways to cut spending and waste in the federal government.” The C.R. prevents a government shutdown and funds federal programs and services until April 28, 2017. It funds the government at the current budget cap level of $1.07 trillion. The cap has been in place since passage of the Budget Control Act of 2011.
12.06.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (December 6) upon passage of H.R. 4680, the National Park Service Centennial Act: “The National Parks Service has long preserved the most scenic and beautiful locales in America,” Westerman said. “In the Fourth Congressional District of Arkansas, Hot Springs National Park has long been a top attraction and now serves as the home of my district headquarters. We are also the home of the Buffalo National River, our nation’s first ‘National River,’ established in 1972. As we recognize 100 years of the National Parks Service, I am proud to join my colleagues in the House in voting for H.R. 4680, which provides the service with new tools that will take it into another century of advocating for America’s natural, historic, and cultural resources.”
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage of the Conference Report to accompany S. 2943, the National Defense Authorization Act: “I was proud to vote for the NDAA conference report,” Westerman said. “In addition to supporting military installations in Arkansas, this bill also provides our troops with a long overdue pay increase they have earned and deserve. I thank the men and women in uniform for their service and commit to continue supporting them in Congress.”
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement upon passage Thursday (December 1) of H.R. 6392, the Systemic Risk Designation Improvement Act: “The Dodd-Frank Act was intended to prevent another near-collapse of America’s financial system. Instead it has made it harder for banks to lend to consumers and harder for consumers like the residents of Arkansas to get a loan for a house, car, or their business,” Westerman said. “Much of the problem has been a result of the bill’s decision to treat most banks the same regardless of size. I voted Thursday for the Systemic Risk Designation Improvement Act because all banks are not created equal. This legislation would fix Dodd-Frank’s attempt to measure small banks by the same standards as trillion dollar banks. It is a fix that is right for our financial system and just the start of our efforts in the House to reverse eight years of the Obama Administration’s attempts to overregulate our nation’s economy.”
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement upon passage Wednesday (November 30) of the 21st Century Cures Act: “The 21st Century Cures Act passed by the House Wednesday is an important bill for the people of Arkansas,” Westerman said. “We are familiar with diseases targeted by this bill – including cancer and Alzheimer’s disease – but tick-borne illnesses such as Lyme disease are a problem occurring throughout areas in Arkansas. This bill specifically targets tick-borne illnesses through research aimed at improvement in diagnosis, care, and prevention of these ailments. The 21st Century Cures Act does much more to improve the health of citizens across Arkansas and the United States and it does it in a fiscally responsible way through offsets in discretionary spending. I was proud to vote for this bill and stand for the citizens of Arkansas.” More information about the 21st Century Cures Act’s impacts on tick-borne illnesses may be found in Sec. 2062 of the bill, available for download here.
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage of seven veterans-related bills on Tuesday (November 29) in the U.S. House of Representatives: “The men and women who have served this nation in uniform have sacrificed in ways large and small,” Westerman said. “The United States has an obligation to provide veterans the benefits and care they’ve earned. That is why I joined with my House colleagues on the right and left today to support a series of bills that would ensure proper access to healthcare, education, and employment for our veterans. For far too long, our veterans have not received the benefits and care they deserve. These bills do not make up for the deficiencies in the V.A., but they are a step in the right direction for the heroes who fought for each of us.” The following is a list of veterans-related bills passed by the House of Representatives on Tuesday (descriptions by the House Republican Conference): H.R. 5458 – Veterans TRICARE Choice Act: “Would allow certain individuals who are automatically eligible for TRICARE, which is the health benefits program of the Department of Defense, to elect to be temporarily ineligible for that benefit. Making that election would allow those individuals to contribute to health savings accounts (HSAs), which are tax-advantaged accounts used to pay health expenses. Under current law, individuals eligible for TRICARE and covered by a high-deductible health insurance plan (HDHP) cannot make contributions to HSAs.” H.R. 4757 – To amend title 38, USC, to expand the eligibility for headstones, markers, and medallions furnished by the Secretary of VA for deceased individuals who were awarded the Medal of Honor: “Would allow the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide special markers for the graves of those who have received the Medal of Honor and who are buried in private cemeteries. Under current law, the VA is prohibited from furnishing a distinctive headstone, marker, or medallion for Medal of Honor recipients who are buried in private cemeteries, if the grave is marked with a private headstone.” H.R. 5399 – Ethical Patient Care for Veterans Act: “Would require physicians employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to report unethical health care practices that take place at VA medical facilities to the appropriate state licensing authority within five days of occurrence. The bill also would require VA to inform physicians of their duty to report.” H.R. 5047 – Protecting Veterans’ Educational Choice Act: “Would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to include information on articulation agreements when it provides educational and vocational counseling to veterans. Articulation agreements are arrangements between institutions of higher learning regarding how those institutions will grant academic credit for course work pursued at other institutions.” H.R. 5166 – WINGMAN Act: “Would enable congressional staff, which would include staff sometimes referred to as “caseworkers”, to have “read only” access to veterans’ records in the databases of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA), if the veteran provides permission to the Congressional office to allow their records to be accessed. This would enable staff, who are already certified to access these records, to bypass the step of having to use the VA as a intermediator to receive them.” H.R. 3286 – HIRE Vets Act: “Would require the Department of Labor (DOL) to establish the HIRE Vets Medallion Program, within one year of enactment, to annually recognize businesses for their efforts to employ veterans. DOL would make awards to employers, on a voluntary basis, who recruit, employ, and retain veterans; and provide community and charitable services supporting the veteran community. Employers would earn either platinum or gold status based on requirements related to the number of veterans hired each year, if they provide pay equity for Guardsmen and Reserve employees who were called up to active military service, and if certain other requirements are met.” H.R. 5600 – No Hero Left Untreated Act: “Requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to carry out a one year pilot program to treat a limited number of veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, chronic pain, or opiate addiction or who have experienced military sexual trauma by using magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy. The bill also requires VA to submit a report on the pilot program.”
11.17.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (November 17) upon passage of H.R. 5711 and H.R. 6297, bills that would place sanctions on Iran and limit its ability to fully reintegrate with the world financial and economic systems. “Iran is one of the world’s foremost state sponsors of terrorism,” Westerman said. “The nation’s actions have been hostile and out of line with the values of freedom and democracy we hold dear in the United States. While the Obama Administration has tried to normalize relations through its disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal, the House today spoke loudly by saying the regime in Iran is no friend of America. As long as it supports terrorism, threatens its neighbors, and is hostile to the United States, the House will seek sanctions against Iran.”
11.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) announced Wednesday (November 16) a series of mobile offices beginning Wednesday, November 30 (all times central). The Fourth District's mobile offices assist constituents with Veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security and other services involving the federal government. “Mobile offices are important for constituents who may be in need of assistance from the federal government, but cannot drive to one of my physical offices across the state,” Westerman said. Anyone in need of assistance may also contact Westerman's Hot Springs Office weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. by calling (501) 609-9796 or by visiting westerman.house.gov. District offices are located in El Dorado at 101 North Washington Street, Ozark at 211 West Commercial Street, and Pine Bluff at 100 East 8th Avenue, Room 2521. The Hot Springs office is located at 101 Reserve Street, Suite 200. Mobile office locations and times: Clark County Courthouse 401 Clay Street Arkadelphia, AR 71923 Wednesday, November 30, 2016: 8:30 – 9:30 a.m. Nevada County Courthouse 215 East 2nd Street South Prescott, AR 71857 Wednesday, November 30, 2016: 10 – 11 a.m. Miller County Courthouse 400 Laurel Street Texarkana, AR 71854 Wednesday, November 30, 2016: 12 – 1 p.m. Lafayette County Courthouse 1 Courthouse Square Lewisville, AR 71845 Wednesday, November 30, 2016: 2 –3 p.m. Columbia County Courthouse 1 Court Square Magnolia, AR 71753 Wednesday, November 30, 2016: 3:30 – 4:30 p.m. Hot Spring County Courthouse 210 Locust Street Malvern, AR 72104 Thursday, December 1, 2016: 8:30 – 9:30 a.m. Dallas County Courthouse 206 West 3rd Street Fordyce, AR 71742 Thursday, December 1, 2016: 10:30 – 11:30 a.m. Cleveland County Courthouse 20 Magnolia Street Rison, AR 71665 Thursday, December 1, 2016: 12 – 1 p.m. Grant County Courthouse 101 West Center Street Sheridan, AR 72150 Thursday, December 1, 2016: 1:45 – 2:45 p.m. Ouachita County Courthouse 145 Jefferson Street Southwest Camden, AR 71701 Friday, December 2, 2016: 9 – 10 a.m. Calhoun County Courthouse 309 West Main Street Hampton, AR 71744 Friday, December 2, 2016: 10:30 – 11:30 a.m. Bradley County Courthouse 101 East Cedar Street Warren, AR 71671 Friday, December 2, 2016: 12 – 1 p.m. Ashley County Courthouse 205 East Jefferson Street Hamburg, AR 71646 Friday, December 2, 2016: 1:45 – 2:45 p.m. Drew County Courthouse 210 South Main Street Monticello, AR 71655 Friday, December 2, 2016: 3:15 – 4:15 p.m.
10.14.2016	HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) announced Friday (October 14) the launch of a two-day agriculture tour through the Fourth Congressional District of Arkansas. “Policy discussion should be led by the men and women working the fields, not dictated by Washington bureaucrats and special interests,” Westerman said. “If we are to support our state’s largest industry, we must listen to the leaders who know first-hand the challenges and opportunities that exist in agriculture. That is why I am hitting the road next week to visit with some of our state’s ag leaders and producers. I am excited to visit with farmers and ranchers across the Fourth District to learn more about how decisions in Washington affect their livelihood.” Westerman’s Fourth District Ag Tour will take him to the following sites highlighting the various aspects of agriculture in Arkansas: Wednesday, October 19: Alford Farms in Lewisville (cattle); McDonald Farms in Lewisville (cattle and row crops); and Vaught Farm in De Queen (poultry and pork). Thursday, October 20: Peach Pickin’ Paradise in Lamar (fruit); the University of Arkansas Fruit Station in Clarksville (fruit); and the Tyson Foods rendering plant in Dardanelle (poultry). Media will receive notifications of locations open to media in a separate advisory next week.
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 5303, the Water Resources Development Act of 2016: “Investment in our navigational channels, ports, locks, and dams is a necessity in Arkansas,” Westerman said. “The Water Resources Development Act supports infrastructure investment in both traditional and non-traditional ways, including cost-sharing partnerships with non-federal sponsors. Improvements possible through these cost-sharing partnerships will improve Arkansas navigational infrastructure, keeping millions of tons of product flowing throughout Arkansas rivers.” According to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, WRDA 2016 improves America’s water resources infrastructure by: Authorizing needed investment in America’s ports, channels, locks, dams, and other infrastructure that supports the maritime and waterways transportation system and provides flood protection for homes and businesses; Authorizing Army Corps of Engineers Chief’s Reports received since WRRDA 2014; Chief’s Reports are the final recommendations to Congress by the Corps’ Chief of Engineers for water resources infrastructure priorities; These infrastructure improvements have been proposed at the local level, in cooperation and consultation with the Corps, and also have national economic and environmental benefits; All Chief’s Reports have been fully vetted by the Committee at hearings this year; Authorizing studies for future water resources improvements and makes modifications to previous authorizations; Maintains process reforms established under WRRDA 2014 that allow greater local participation in project selection; Keeping American jobs in America by strengthening our competitiveness and ensuring that our transportation system remains attractive to private sector job creators.
09.27.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Sens. John Boozman (AR), Tom Cotton (AR), and Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) each issued the following statements congratulating South Arkansas Community College on its award of a $788,587 grant from the Economic Development Administration to construct the Advance Manufacturing Training Center in El Dorado. “A thriving manufacturing sector is one of the keys to remaining competitive in today's global economy,” Boozman said. “This grant is beneficial in that regard as it will help create a skilled workforce to fill those jobs right here in Arkansas. This new training center at South Arkansas Community College will help put our state’s economy in a good position to grow and give Arkansans an opportunity to learn the skills necessary to land well-paying, manufacturing jobs.” “Congratulations to South Arkansas Community College on winning this grant,” Cotton said. “I know this manufacturing center will be a great addition to the college and help students better prepare to meet the growing need for high-skill technicians across South Arkansas.” “In order to grow the economy, companies must have skilled workers,” Westerman said. “This grant to construct the Advance Manufacturing Training Center will build a pipeline of skilled workers for companies across South Arkansas. Not only will this help companies fill open positions, but it will create incentive for employers to start or expand their operations in and around Union County. Congratulations to South Arkansas Community College on this grant and I look forward to seeing its impact on the region.” According to the award notice provided by the EDA, its investment funds the construction of a training center to provide training, education, and foster workforce partnerships to meet the current and future industry needs in the region. The center will provide a first-class advanced manufacturing training facility designed with significant input from industry leaders to provide jobs for workers in the economically distressed Mississippi Delta region in Southern Arkansas. The total cost of the training center is more than $1.7 million. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. More information on EDA’s grant process and investment process can be found at www.eda.gov.
09.26.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement Monday (September 26) upon passage of H.R. 845, the National Forest Trails Stewardship Act: “Our national forests and public lands are a treasure to the people of America, but the maintenance backlog on our public lands hinders access to our national forest system,” Westerman said. “I was proud Monday to join Congressman Lummis and my fellow co-sponsors in securing passage of the National Forest Trails Stewardship Act. This bill requires a strategy be developed in five years so the U.S. Forest Service and volunteers can work together to maintain federally-owned trails. To keep our forests and public lands beautiful, and ensure citizens have the access they deserve, it is imperative that this legislation be signed into law.”
09.23.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Friday (September 23) upon passage of H.R. 5931, the No More Cash Ransoms to Iran Act, a bill that passed the House on Thursday night (September 22): “This week, the House of Representatives passed two bills aimed at securing America’s interests in the Middle East and preventing a state sponsor of terrorism from advancing its interests,” Westerman said. “The Iranian Leadership Transparency Act would expose the truth about assets held by the leaders of Iran and how such funds were acquired, while the No More Cash Ransoms to Iran Act would stop the payments of hundreds of millions of dollars to Iran now and in the future. It would further require transparency for any future settlements with Iran. In our ongoing fight against terrorism and combatting the financing of terrorism, we must re-establish our long held policy of not paying ransom, which puts American citizens abroad in danger. We must have transparency. These laws do that while limiting further payments to the world’s foremost state sponsor of terrorism. These laws protect Americans abroad and here at home.” H.R. 5461, the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act, passed the House on Wednesday (September 21). According to the House Financial Services Committee, the bill would require the Treasury Secretary to develop and post online a list estimating the “funds and assets” held by senior Iranian political and military leaders, along with a description of how they acquired the assets and how those assets are employed. The report would be posted on the Treasury Department’s website in English but also translated into the three main languages used inside Iran and would be available in any of those forms in a way that is easy to download and share. According to the House Foreign Affairs Committee, H.R. 5931, the No More Cash Ransoms to Iran Act, would: Make clear that the Obama Administration violated longstanding U.S. policy by releasing prisoners and paying ransom for the return of Americans held hostage by Iran; Prohibit all cash payments to Iran – period; and Demand transparency on any future settlements with Iran in order to ensure they are not used to pay ransom.
09.22.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Congressmen Rick Crawford (AR-1), French Hill (AR-2), Steve Womack (AR-3) and Bruce Westerman (AR-4), today urged U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to support Governor Asa Hutchinson’s request for a major disaster declaration for Arkansas. Following a storm that caused substantial flooding in several Arkansas counties, inflicting particular damage upon farms that have already experienced flooding earlier this year, Governor Hutchinson requested disaster assistance for Carroll, Clay, Craighead, Independence, Jackson, Lawrence, Lincoln, Madison, Prairie, Randolph, White and Woodruff counties. “This flooding has been devastating to many communities. The region’s agriculture industry has been acutely impacted and faces significant hardship as a result of these crop losses. When total damages to Arkansas crops is estimated to be between $45 and $50 million, it is important for the Department of Agriculture to recognize this emergency.” In light of the situation that these counties face, Arkansas’s congressional delegation supports Governor Hutchinson’s request and urges swift approval by Secretary Vilsack. Read the delegation’s letter of support in its entirety here.
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage Wednesday (September 21) of H.R. 3438, the Require Evaluation before Implementing Executive Wishlists (REVIEW) Act of 2015: “An overreaching federal government has been hurting workers in Arkansas and the United States for too long,” Westerman said. “The REVIEW Act stops so-called ‘high impact rules’ that will cost more than $1 billion annually from taking effect until all court challenges to the regulations in question are settled. This bill frees up billions of dollars spent on meeting onerous government regulations that instead can be invested in American jobs and growing our local economies.” According to the American Action Forum, the U.S. government created 79,230 pages of new regulations in the federal register, with a total cost of $98.9 billion in regulatory costs in 2015 alone. Federal regulatory burdens have reached at least an estimated $1.86 trillion, which adds up to approximately $15,000 annually per U.S. household. According to the office of House Speaker Paul Ryan, if the United States’ regulatory system were a country, it would be the world’s ninth-largest economy behind India.
09.14.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (September 14) upon passage of H.R. 5620, VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016: “Congress and the American people have long known about the failures of the Veterans Administration to effectively care for the brave men and women who put their lives on the line in defense of our freedom,” Westerman said. “That is why I joined my colleagues today in voting for H.R. 5620, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016. This bill increases accountability in the VA by permitting the firing of personnel who are not meeting performance standards or who are found to have committed misconduct. It should not take an act of Congress to clean up a troubled agency tasked with taking care of our heroes, but this bill will result in fundamental changes and improved care for our veterans.” In addition to the V.A. Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016, the House also passed the following veterans-focused bills this week: H.R. 3471 – Veterans Mobility Safety Act of 2016; H.R. 5936 – Veterans Care Agreement and West Los Angeles Leasing Act of 2016; and H.R. 5985 – Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2016.
09.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement Monday (September 12) upon passage of H.R. 1301, the Amateur Radio Parity Act: “For too long, FCC rules have stifled the thousands of amateur radio operators broadcasting in Arkansas and around the nation," Westerman said. "The passage of H.R. 1301 removes unnecessary regulations on ham radio enthusiasts who provide valuable services to their local communities in times of crisis. This is a victory for Arkansas amateur radio operators.” According to the office of Congressman Luke Messer, FCC rules currently in place allow for certain land-use restrictions by homeowners associations and other local community associations. These rules can limit the ability of the more than 730,000 amateur radio operators to pursue their hobby on their private property even while complying with federal licensing requirements. H.R. 1301 would prohibit such restrictions on private land-use.
09.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement Wednesday (September 7) upon passage of H.R. 5063, the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016: “The Department of Justice has been unilaterally ordering settling parties to give money to special interest groups,” Westerman said. “Not only is this wrong, it is unconstitutional. There is a better way to run our government and restore our constitutional rights. Passage of H.R. 5063 does that and protects future parties from having to hand over money to special interest groups by order of the government. It is a good first step that needs to happen in all government agencies which have imposed overreaching penalties and fines for far too long.” According to the House Judiciary Committee: In just the last two years, DOJ has directed nearly a billion dollars to activist groups entirely outside of Congress’ spending and oversight authority. Evidence shows that activist groups lobbied DOJ for this funding; In some cases, these mandatory donation provisions reinstate funding Congress specifically cut. Rather than stop its activity in response to bipartisan concerns, DOJ has doubled down; and DOJ’s authority to settle cases includes the ability to obtain redress for actual victims. However, once victims have been compensated, deciding what to do with additional funds extracted from defendants becomes a policy question properly decided by elected representatives in Congress, not agency bureaucrats or prosecutors.
09.07.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives Wednesday (September 7) to remember the life of Bill Cooper, a corporal with the Sebastian County Sheriff’s Department who was killed in the line of duty on Wednesday, August 10. Below is the full text of Westerman’s remarks (as prepared): “In recent months, our nation’s police have come under attack. Last month, the violence against our police hit home as Sebastian County, Arkansas, Sheriff’s Deputy Corporal Bill Cooper was shot and killed responding to a call for help on August 10. In the days and weeks since his untimely death, thousands of Sebastian County residents paid their respects to Deputy Cooper – a Marine Corps veteran – by remembering his dedication to God, his family, the sheriff’s department, and the country he loved. I don’t pretend that my words will fill the void left by his death, but I hope my words can properly honor a man who paid the ultimate price upholding the oath he swore to defend. I thank him for his service and I thank his family for sharing him with the community. Psalm 34:18 says, ‘The LORD is close to the brokenhearted; he rescues those whose spirits are crushed.’ May God bless and comfort Deputy Cooper’s family during this time of grief.” Westerman joined Congressman Steve Womack (AR-03) in offering tributes to Cooper on Wednesday. Both represent parts of Sebastian County in the U.S. House.
09.06.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (Sept. 9) upon passage of H.R. 5577, the Innovation in Offshore Leasing Act: “The process for bidding offshore leases has been outdated for far too long,” Westerman said.“The Innovation in Offshore Leasing Act brings offshore leasing into the 21st Century which allows for increased transparency in the bidding process. This bill brings the process into the light and makes public information that has previously been difficult to obtain.” According to the House Republican Policy Committee, H.R. 5577 would: Amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to provide the Secretary of the Interior with the authority and direction to conduct internet-based, sealed-bid offshore oil and natural gas lease sales; Require the Secretary to meet specific requirements in conducting internet-based sales, including: having an independent observer present; providing a “bid-map” to all bidders so that they may verify their bids prior to the bid-reading; ensuring data security for all bidder data; and feedback from bidders in order to continually improve the leasing process; and Provide increased data transparency measures to ensure that the Secretary not only discloses all available data related to sale-day statistics, but also ensures such data is made publicly available and easily accessible on a web-based format; and Require the Secretary to conduct not less than one workshop with viable bidders to the first internet-based lease sale in order to ensure feedback and an ability for bidders to familiarize themselves with the new platform.
08.19.2016	HOT SPRINGS – U.S. Sen. John Boozman (AR) and U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04) will launch the #Seed2Sawmill Tour on Aug. 30 in an effort to promote forest health and tout the economic benefits of forestry to the state of Arkansas. Westerman, the only professional forester in Congress, will lead the tour through counties in the Fourth Congressional District. In addition to an undergraduate degree in engineering from the University of Arkansas, Westerman holds a master’s degree in forestry from Yale University. “Trees are America’s number one renewable resource. Healthy forests provide clean air, clean water, wildlife habitat, outdoor recreation opportunities, and beautiful vistas,” Westerman said. “But healthy forests don't just happen. A wide range of professionals from research scientists and foresters to technicians, loggers, machinery operators and the remaining 28,000 Arkansans employed in forestry and its related mills and processing facilities all play a key part in healthy forests in the Natural State.” “The timber industry generates over $3 billion a year for our state's economy and supports jobs for thousands of Arkansans. Its impact on our economy cannot be overstated,” Boozman said. “That’s why it is important that Congressman Westerman and I take this opportunity to visit our timber farms, mills, and factories to speak directly with those whose livelihoods are tied to the decisions we make in Washington. We need to hear from them about what Congress should be doing to help this important industry continue to thrive in Arkansas.” According to the Arkansas Forestry Association, 28,057 Arkansans are directly employed in the forestry and forest products industry with an average annual income of more than $49,000. The Arkansas Forest Resources Center reports an additional 41,755 indirect and induced jobs resulting from the forestry industry. The total economic impact of forestry to the state of Arkansas is $3.2 billion, the AFA reports, while the AFSC notes an additional $3.4 billion in indirect and induced economic impact. During the forestry tour, Boozman and Westerman will explore forestry from the birth of a tree through its lifecycle, including its use in forest products such as paper and building materials. The tour will also feature proper forest management and the positive environmental impacts achieved through conservation efforts. The tour will make the following stops from Aug. 30 through Sept. 1: Weyerhaeuser Nursery in Magnolia, Weyerhaeuser facility in Emerson, Watson Lumber in Mt. Holly, Maxwell Flooring in Monticello, Del-Tin in El Dorado, the U.S. Forest Service Experimental Forest in Crossett, Fiber Resources, and Evergreen Packaging, both in Pine Bluff. (Media will be notified of tours open to the press the week of the #seed2sawmill tour.) Constituents interested in the tour are encouraged to use the #Seed2Sawmill hashtag to follow Boozman and Westerman on their tour of South Arkansas. An op-ed written by Boozman and Westerman is available at westerman.house.gov. Media are invited to republish the column.
07.19.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Sens. John Boozman (R-AR), Tom Cotton (R-AR), and U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued statements Tuesday (July 19) in support of $1 million in federal funding recently awarded to the city of Texarkana, Arkansas, for drainage system improvements and reconstruction of the “U of A Way” road structure. The funding was awarded by the Economic Development Administration. According to the EDA, the street has been prone to flooding problems because of light duty pavement and poor drainage conditions. The new construction will expand the pavement’s width in order to improve safety and provide needed space for truck traffic, the EDA said. The EDA said the road improvement’s economic impact would create 11 jobs, save an additional 65 jobs, and attract $14.5 million in private investment. “Improving infrastructure is key to economic development and growth,” Boozman said. “This grant is an investment in Texarkana that will help pave the way for economic opportunity and job creation." “I am confident that these hard-earned taxpayer dollars will be a positive investment in the Texarkana community,” Cotton said. “I am pleased the Economic Development Administration has awarded $1 million to Texarkana and Miller County,” Westerman said. “This is a unique opportunity to invest in infrastructure which will create true economic benefits for years to come. The private sector jobs and investment that will result from these drainage improvements will benefit the entire Texarkana region.”
07.18.2016	WASHINGTON – The U.S. Senate on Thursday (July 14) passed H.R. 3931, a bill to designate the United States Post Office located at 620 Central Avenue, Suite 1A in Hot Springs National Park as the Chief Petty Officer Adam Brown United States Post Office. H.R. 3931, introduced by Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) on November 4, 2015, passed the House on May 23. Brown, a Hot Springs native, overcame many adversities in his life – including addiction – before joining the U.S. Navy and becoming a member of SEAL Team SIX. On March 17, 2010, American forces were engaged in a firefight in Komar Province, Afghanistan, when members of Brown’s unit were cornered. Chief Petty Officer Brown maneuvered to draw enemy fire away from his unit and toward himself. He died as a result of his heroic actions. U.S. Sens. John Boozman (AR), Tom Cotton, and U.S. Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statements Monday (July 18): “This is a tribute to a hero whose determination, perseverance and faith helped him overcome his personal battles and become an elite warrior. His story serves as an inspiration to the community and future generations about what it means to be selfless,” Boozman said. “I appreciate Congressman Westerman's leadership to honor Chief Petty Officer Brown with this special recognition.” “Adam Brown was a great warrior and a hero. His story is one of faith, redemption, service, and love. I am proud to call him an Arkansan and proud a building in his beloved Hot Springs will now bear his name,” Cotton said. “I hope when little boys and little girls see the sign on this post office with his name they ask their parents who Adam Brown was. And I hope their parents can tell them his story and inspire them with his example.” “Chief Petty Officer Brown’s story is a great American success story. His battle to overcome addictions to not only become one of the nation’s most elite warriors but also to be a husband, father, and a man who lived out his faith is a story worth celebrating and remembering,” Westerman said. “Adam exemplified the SEAL code of loyalty to country, team, and teammate, giving his life to save the members of his unit. Though he was killed in the line of duty, his selfless actions ensured victory for his brothers in arms. Adam’s love for America was evident by his selfless actions. It is my hope that the Adam Brown Post Office in Hot Springs will not only serve to honor Adam, but that it will also honor all of the men and women from the Fourth Congressional District of Arkansas who have given their lives in defense of the United States.” Chief Petty Officer Brown’s story was the basis for the New York Times bestselling book “Fearless.” Co-sponsors of this legislation are Congressmen Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03), Andy Barr (KY-06), Jim McDermott (WA-07), and Ryan Zinke (MT-At Large). Zinke, like Brown, was a member of the Navy’s SEAL Team SIX. H.R. 3931 will now go to the White House to be signed into law from President Barack Obama.
07.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Friday (July 15), House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry Chairman Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Representative Bruce Westerman (R-AR) participated in a press call to discuss pending wildfire and forest management legislation (H.R. 2647 / S. 3085). Click here to listen to a recording of the call. “Last year, more than 10 million acres went up in smoke due to decades of unmanaged forests and our government spending more on fighting fires and special interest groups in court than managing the forests in scientifically-proven ways,” Rep. Westerman stated during the call. Members outlined concerns with inadequate federal efforts to reduce the concentration of hazardous fuels in overgrown forests. The Forest Service is currently treating just 1% of the forest lands that the agency has identified as high-risk and susceptible to wildfires. In reference to H.R. 2647 and S. 3085, Bishop stated: “this framework gives agencies a responsible budget fix and the tools they’ve been calling for to finally begin treating forests at a pace and scale that is needed to protect our communities.” For basic treatments or a routine thinning project, an Environmental Impact Statement can cost the Forest Service a minimum of a million dollars and over 3 years to complete. “With its current, woefully inadequate and expensive self-imposed process, it’s no wonder the Forest Service currently treats just 3 million out of 60 million acres at high risk to wildfire,” Bishop stated. “We need a new strategy that focuses on scientifically based, sustainable forestry management,” Rep. Westerman stated. “To do this, we'll have to rein in frivolous lawsuits that regrettably have become the tool of choice for small groups with special interests. With proper management and new provisions for catastrophic events, we can end fire-borrowing in a cost-effective manner.” “As the loss of life, property and environmental damage grows, we cannot afford to just throw more money at the problem. We must address the root cause,” Bishop stated. Background: On July 9, 2015, H.R. 2647 (Rep. Westerman), the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015, passed the House. The bipartisan bill would address the growing threat of catastrophic wildfire by simplifying environmental process requirements, reducing project planning times, and expanding forest management flexibility to improve the health and resiliency of our forests. On June 22, 2016, U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS), Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, introduced S. 3085, the Emergency Wildfire and Forest Management Act of 2016. Similar to the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015, S. 3085 proposes a responsible solution to “fire-borrowing” with much needed reforms to improve forest heath on federal lands. Click here to view a summary of H.R. 2647.
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage Thursday (July 14) of H.R. 5538, the Fiscal 2017 Interior Appropriations Bill. “The Interior appropriations bill for fiscal year 2017 is important for the Fourth District of Arkansas and two of its largest industries – forestry and agriculture,” Westerman said. “This bill includes an amendment that would place $10 million in the U.S. Forest Service’s Forest and Rangeland Research Account, which funds the Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) and the Forest Products Laboratory, among other programs. This amendment would free up money from the federal bureaucracy for use in on-the-ground scientific research. Beyond forestry, this bill would also protect farmland by blocking funding of the EPA’s Waters of the United States rule. This bill is good for Arkansas’ forests, farms, and the American people.” Westerman introduced the following amendments which were included in the final appropriations bill: Amendment 17: Removes $12 million from the EPA’s Environmental Programs and Management Account and places $10 million into the US Forest Service’s Forest and Rangeland Research Account, which funds the Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) and the Forest Products Laboratory, among other programs. This will free up money from the federal bureaucracy for use in on-the-ground scientific research. Amendment 87: The Fish and Wildlife Service issued the Aquaculture Depredation Order (AQDO) for the taking of double-crested cormorants when populations threatened commercially raised fish stocks. In 2003, FWS issued the Public Resource Depredation Order (PRDO) through a final EIS (along with an amended AQDO) which allowed for the federal government, state officials, and tribal leaders to take cormorants found committing depredations of public supplies of fish. In 2009, the PRDO and AQDO were reissued through an EA for another five years, and FWS attempted to reissue them again in 2014. Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility sued, and on March 29, 2016, the US District Court for the District of Columbia issued a decision stopping implementation of the 2014 EA extension. In the meantime, FWS is planning to conduct a new EA, but new take permits are not being issued to many farmers, whose fish stocks are being depleted by cormorant populations. The Westerman amendment would bar funding to implement the March 29 court decision. Amendment 127: The USGS recently closed the Inorganic Section of the Energy Geochemistry Laboratory in Lakewood, Colorado after an inspection by the Department of the Interior Inspector General that found some 20 years of data manipulation by two analysts. According to the Inspector General: ​“Our review revealed that the full extent of the impacts are not yet known but, nevertheless, that they will be serious and far ranging. The impacts include publications that were retracted or delayed because of inaccurate information, potential damaged reputations of USFS and individual scientists, and possible lost collaborations with partners.” The Westerman amendment prevents funds from being used to destroy records regarding, related to, or generated by the recently closed Inorganic Section of the USGS Energy Geochemistry Lab in Lakewood, CO.
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage Thursday (July 7) of H.R. 5485, the Fiscal 2017 Financial Services-General Government Appropriations Bill: “The expenditure of tax dollars must be done with wisdom,” Westerman said. “The federal government for too long has been spending more money than it takes in and has allowed agencies of the executive branch to overreach into all aspects of American lives. This financial services appropriations bill will limit government spending. It will also limit the overreach of the IRS, stopping its targeting of tax-exempt groups for political reasons. H.R. 5485 would also subject the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to the same appropriations process as other federal agencies, ensuring accountability and oversight. Congress is asserting its constitutional authority to hold government accountable with this bill and I was pleased to see its passage.”
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) voted Wednesday for H.R. 1270, the Restoring Access to Medication Act. Upon House passage of the bill, Westerman released the following statement: “Government overreach has stretched into all aspects of our lives. Perhaps no overreach is as severe as Obamacare’s reach into each of our lives. This week, the House of Representatives said enough is enough and passed H.R. 1270, the Restoring Access to Medication Act. This bill allows Americans to use their flex spending accounts to purchase over-the-counter medication. H.R. 1270 would also allow Americans to contribute more to health savings accounts. These are simple revisions to the law but will have a big impact on residents of the Fourth Congressional District.”
06.27.2016	HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt: “Today, I was disappointed but not surprised to learn that five activist judges on the U.S. Supreme Court ruled against the health of women and children,” Westerman said. “By striking down a Texas law designed to provide protections for the health and safety of women inside the state’s abortion facilities, these judges have struck at the very idea that all people are created equal and with unalienable rights. Once again under the guise of ‘choice,’ liberal elitists on the Supreme Court have shown their disdain for the Constitution and have once again tried to silence those of us who speak up for women and innocent babies who cannot speak for themselves. States will not stop making their own laws governing what happens within its borders. The Supreme Court may have ruled in favor of abortion providers today, but that will not stop states like Arkansas, Texas, and others from passing laws that are supported by its people. We will never stop fighting for the innocent and one day we will overcome this great injustice in America.”
06.27.2016	WASHINGTON – On June 23, U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS), Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, introduced S. 3085, the Emergency Wildfire and Forest Management Act of 2016. The legislation pares a responsible solution to “fire-borrowing” with much needed reforms to improve forest heath on federal lands. This bill is similar to H.R. 2647 (Rep. Bruce Westerman, AR-04), the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015, which passed the House on July 9, 2015. “Last year, more than 10 million acres went up in smoke due to decades of unmanaged forests and a government spending more on fighting fires and special interest groups in court than managing the forests in scientifically-proven ways. The 2016 fire season could be worse than last year with multiple fires breaking out across Western states,” Rep. Westerman said. “I am pleased that Sen. Roberts has introduced legislation similar to the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015, which the House passed last year. In order to fight catastrophic wildfires, we need a new strategy that reins in frivolous lawsuits, allows federal agencies to scientifically manage the national forest system, and ends fire-borrowing in a cost-effective manner. Our rural communities are suffering and our forests cannot wait any longer.” “We are pleased Chairman Roberts has introduced a comprehensive approach to address catastrophic wildfire. The solution to our wildfire crisis requires a responsible budget fix coupled with targeted forest management reforms, and that’s what this bill achieves. We must simplify environmental process requirements so the Forest Service can reduce hazardous fuels at a far greater pace and scale. More money alone will not solve the problem. We look forward to working with the Senate on this important piece of legislation,” Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) said. Click here to learn more about H.R. 2647. Click here to learn more about S. 3085.
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON – Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (WI-01) released the Republican Party’s final of six platforms in a vision for a confident American on Friday (June 24). The policy position, entitled “A Better Way to do Tax Reform,” (.pdf) tackles America’s complex tax system in a way that simplifies the tax code and responsibly funds government while paying down the national debt, according to Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04). “Our current tax code is too complex and discourages entrepreneurship,” Westerman said. “In order to put Americans back to work and grow our economy, we must have a tax code built for growth. Our tax code must be simpler, fairer, and flatter while closing loopholes, and helping businesses grow and employ Americans. The plan laid out by Speaker Ryan and House Republicans is a common sense way to help Americans keep more of their hard-earned money and level the playing field. I am committed to working with Speaker Ryan and House leadership to implement all parts of ‘A Better Way’ which will create a stronger America for generations to come.” better.gop: A Better Way to do Tax Reform (.pdf)YouTube: A Better Way to do Tax Reform
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling 4-4 ruling in the case of United States v. Texas: “The Supreme Court made the right call today by upholding the lower court’s decision on President Obama’s executive action on immigration,” Westerman said. “His administration’s attempt to give legal status to those who broke the law was a clear overreach of his office. This should be a reminder to President Obama and future presidents that the power to make laws was given to Congress and the American people will not stand for a president who does not uphold in the principles of our Constitution.”
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (June 16) upon passage of H.R. 5293, the FY17 Defense Appropriations Bill: “Passage of the defense appropriations bill ensures our military is ready for any threats to the United States and our allies,” Westerman said. “This bill provides more than $200 billion for key readiness programs for our troops, providing them the support necessary for combat and peacetime missions. This bill also maintains our military’s technological advantage and supports quality-of-life programs for our troops all while providing responsible funding and strong oversight. I am proud to support our troops with this bill and I thank them for volunteering to keep us safe.”
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-4), Congressman Rick Crawford (AR-1), Congressman French Hill (AR-2), Congressman Steve Womack (AR-3), and Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-1) released the following statements after the Assuring Private Property Rights Over Vast Access to Land (APPROVAL) Act (H.R. 3062) today passed out of the House Committee on Natural Resources by a vote of 19-11. “The success of the APPROVAL Act in committee today is yet another positive step toward passage in a long and hard-fought battle to allow states to retain the historic precedent of authority for interstate transmission projects. The Administration has consistently demonstrated a lack of acknowledgement of this right through three years of conversations with our delegation leading us to this legislative fix, and I commend my colleagues for recognizing the need to reverse this all-too-common trend of ceding power to the federal government through their overwhelming support for my legislation. I will continue to work to prevent DOE from solidifying this unprecedented process for transmission infrastructure approval,” said Congressman Womack, lead sponsor of H.R. 3062. “State officials and residents should be able to decide what’s best for Arkansas, and the APPROVAL Act works to ensure that Arkansas’s decision concerning this transmission line is final and respected,” said Congressman Crawford. “Local review and input are beneficial to the assessment of large, complex projects such as this proposal. I am grateful for the leadership of Congressman Womack and Senators Boozman and Cotton on this important issue for Arkansas,” said Congressman Hill. “I was pleased to see the APPROVAL Act reported favorably by the House Natural Resources Committee today, and I thank Chairman Bishop for his leadership. I also thank Congressman Womack for introducing this legislation and the members of the Arkansas delegation who have stood with the citizens who elected us. The right to private property is fundamental to a free society. Unfortunately, the federal government continues to show little respect for this important personal liberty. This bill provides flexibility and empowers our states by ensuring they have the final say on eminent domain. In Arkansas, it would stop an unprecedented use of federal authority to give privately-held land to an out-of-state, private corporation. I hope to see the APPROVAL Act move through the House of Representatives in a timely manner,” said Congressman Westerman, member of the House Committee on Natural Resources. “This bill is crucial to protecting private property rights of all Arkansans. It elevates state voices, allowing those impacted to have a say in proposed interstate transmission projects. I thank the entire Arkansas Congressional Delegation for this commonsense legislation to ensure the protection of private property rights,” said Chairman Bishop of the House Committee on Natural Resources. The APPROVAL Act, introduced by Congressman Womack with the support of the entire Arkansas delegation in July 2015, directs the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to obtain approval from a governor and state public service commission, prior to approval of any Section 1222 transmission project and subsequent use of federal eminent domain, as well as the approval of any tribal government for affected lands. The APPROVAL Act creates additional protections for states, as well as individuals, by requiring these projects – if approved – to be placed on federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Forest Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, or the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers whenever possible. The Senate companion bill, S. 485, was introduced by Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) in February 2015. The DOE conditionally approved the first application for Section 1222 authority by Clean Line Energy Partners, LLC through the Plains & Eastern project following the end of the second public comment period on March 25, 2016. This high voltage direct current (HVDC) electric transmission line, if approved, would cross the entire state of Arkansas despite being denied a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity from the Arkansas Public Service Commission.
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (WI-01) released the Republican Party’s latest platform in a vision for a confident America on Tuesday (June 14). The policy position, “A Better Way to Grow Our Economy,” addresses America’s stagnant economic growth and provides a bold vision for the future, according to Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04). “America has long been a land where dreams can become reality, but over time visions of the American dream have turned into nightmares. Good-paying jobs resulting in fulfilling careers that are fundamental to strong homes and communities are hard to come by, regulations make it difficult to open or expand a business, and the cost of doing business is ever-increasing and placing a burden on both business owners and consumers. Government's role is not to create jobs, but it should promote a competitive business climate. That is why I worked to develop this policy position and support the vision laid out by Speaker Ryan to create an environment that gives Arkansans a chance at the American dream like generations before us.” According to the Speaker’s office, “A Better Way to Grow Our Economy” is made up of the following ideas: Regulate smarter: We need to take a smart approach that cuts down on needless regulations while making the rules we do need more efficient and effective, particularly for our small businesses that shoulder a disproportionate share of the federal regulatory burden; Deliver affordable and reliable energy: We need to connect our energy boom to consumers and companies, responsibly produce more of our own resources, and end the needles delays that hold up jobs and projects indefinitely; End bailouts and promote financial independence: We need to end cronyism, reward people who work hard and do the right thing, and put an end to Wall Street bailouts once and for all; Put students and workers first: We should make it easier for Americans to excel in schools and workplaces, and rip up the red tape that gets in their way; Preserve Internet innovation: We need to establish clear and consumer-friendly rules that prevent the FCC from making up regulations as it goes along and make sure Internet users will continue to be the decision makers for the content they want; and Crack down on lawsuit abuse: We need to reform the system so that it no longer tips the scales in favor of trial lawyers and better protects consumers and small businesses.
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) voted Thursday (June 9) for H.R. 5278, a bill to establish an oversight board to assist the government of Puerto Rico, including instrumentalities, in managing its public finances, and for other purposes. Prior to Thursday’s vote, Westerman spoke in favor of the bill. The following are his remarks (as delivered) on the House floor: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5278. I thank the gentleman from Wisconsin, Congressman Duffy, and Chairman Bishop for their work in crafting this bipartisan legislation. “H.R. 5278 is a compromise bill designed to save Puerto Rico from economic calamity and prevent a taxpayer bailout. Mr. Speaker, I suggest that the admission from both sides of the aisle that this bill isn’t perfect is a testament that this bill is the best solution. Puerto Rico is in a crisis. The territory has already missed payments on its debt and more and larger missed payments are on the near horizon. The fiscal and economic conditions of Puerto Rico are unsustainable. “Based on the constitutionally-delegated power of Congress – and I quote – ‘to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations, respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States,’ we have a responsibility to take action on this matter. This unsustainable debt burden – brought on by poor decisions, unfulfilled promises, and bad investments – has crippled their economy. Their unemployment rate is 12.2 percent and since Puerto Ricans are American citizens, thousands of young people come to the main land each year to find work. Puerto Rico is spiraling out of control and it’s our constitutional responsibility to put our territory on a different path and change the economic trajectory. “H.R. 5278 establishes a seven-member oversight board that will have the authority to establish budgets for the territory, require the scoring of legislation so that the people of Puerto Rico know the true costs of government programs, and the power to veto contracts and executive orders. “Once again, I would like to thank Congressman Duffy and Chairman Bishop for their hard work in crafting a bill to get Puerto Rico on the right track without a taxpayer bailout. I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 5278 to stop Puerto Rico’s economic death spiral and to lay a foundation for a brighter future in Puerto Rico without spending taxpayer dollars. I yield back.” YouTube: PROMESA "A Compromise Bill Designed to Save Puerto Rico from Economic Calamity," Westerman says
06.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (WI-01) released the Republican Party’s first of six platforms in a vision for a confident America on Tuesday (June 8). The policy position, entitled “A Better Way to Fight Poverty,” (.pdf) tackles America’s poverty epidemic in a compassionate, policy-driven manner, according to Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04). “The best way to solve systemic poverty is by putting Americans back to work,” Westerman said. “Speaker Ryan’s bold plan gives Americans a detailed plan for how Congress can do just that. Establishing a work requirement for able-bodied, working age adults is a necessary first step to get Americans on the path to success, but it is not the only way to bring more Americans into the middle class. We must streamline the programs created to help the neediest among us, cutting waste and providing the assistance needed to get Americans back on their feet and providing for themselves and their families. I am committed to working with Speaker Ryan and House leadership to implement ‘A Better Way to Fight Poverty’ and the other parts of ‘A Better Way’ which will create a stronger America for generations to come.” According to the Speaker’s office, this first plank of “A Better Way” aims at lifting families out of poverty and onto the ladder of opportunity through the following: Improving skills and schools. To break the cycle of poverty, we have to protect the next generation from poverty. Our plan makes sure that poor kids have more chances to overcome obstacles at every stage, from childhood through college. Rewarding work. A good job is the surest way out of poverty, but most welfare programs do not actually require or even encourage work. If you are capable, we will expect you to work or prepare for work as a condition of assistance. Tailoring benefits to people’s needs. Under the status quo, you are punished for working hard and doing the right thing. Instead of a one-size-fits-all system, our plan matches poverty-fighting programs with your needs so that it’s easier for you to take a job and start a family. Helping you plan and save for the future. The basic tools to put away money and save remain beyond the reach of too many Americans. Our plan expands access to basic banking services and makes it easier for you and your family to plan for the future. Demanding results. Washington measures success by how much it spends, not by how much it helps. Our plan opens up the system to accountability and collaboration, backing ideas that work on the front lines. The plan unveiled by the Republican Conference does not increase federal spending, but instead takes current spending levels and directs it to real solutions that are working in communities across America.
05.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Earlier this week, the Senate voted in favor of S.J.Res. 28, a Congressional Review Act resolution that would remove a catfish inspection program from the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) jurisdiction back to the purview of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Today, Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) joined Representatives Terri Sewell (AL-07), Rick Crawford (Ar-01), Frank Lucas (OK-03), French Hill (AR-02), Ralph Abraham (LA-05), Steve Womack (AR-03), Trent Kelly (MS-01), Gregg Harper (MS-03), Charles Boustany (LA-03), Martha Roby (Al-02), Garrett Graves (LA-06), Steven Palazzo (MS-04), Ted Yoho (FL-03), Mike Rogers (MI-08), Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02), Scott Desjarlais (TN-04), Robert Aderholt (AL-04), Stephen Fincher (TN-08), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), and Bradley Byrne (Al-01) in sending a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi urging that the House not take up S.J. Res. 28. Overwhelming evidence suggests that imported catfish and catfish-like products represent a significant food safety threat to the American public. Accordingly, Congress transferred inspection authority from the FDA to the USDA's Food Safety Inspection Service (FSIS). The Members wrote in the letter: “We believe that the Senate’s action to nullify the catfish inspection program shortly after the program has been implemented is irresponsible and disregards overwhelming evidence proving that imported catfish represents a significant food safety threat to U.S. consumers." Background: The catfish inspection program, implemented just recently, is critical to preventing adulterated catfish and catfish-like products from entering the U.S. food supply. Mere days after USDA began inspecting imported shipments of catfish, the agency found elevated amounts of Malachite Green and Crystal Violet, two banned and dangerous carcinogens. Despite the USDA’s findings and the recent vindication of the program, opponents in the Senate are still attempting to undo years of work and research. Arguments made by opponents are misguided and unfounded. First, USDA projects the program will cost only $1.1 million annually to implement, a small price to pay to protect the food supply. Second, there is no duplication as FDA no longer inspects catfish, and all inspection activities have been transferred pursuant to provisions in the 2008 and 2014 Farm Bills. Finally, the rule simply requires foreign suppliers to meet an equivalent safety standard as our domestic producers, a policy that allows all marker participants to compete on a level playing field.
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (WI-01) appointed Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) on Thursday (May 26) to serve on a conference committee charged with producing final energy and natural resource legislation. H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015, was passed in July 2015, by a bipartisan vote. The Senate passed S. 2012, the Energy Policy Modernization Act, in April 2016. The House Amendment to S. 2012, which passed the House Wednesday (May 26), includes H.R. 2647 and numerous additional House-passed bills within the House Committee on Natural Resources jurisdiction. Click here to view a summary of the committee’s provisions. “We have a real wildfire problem because our nation’s forests are undermanaged and unhealthy, and that’s why Rep. Westerman’s Resilient Federal Forests Act—which tackles this root cause—is so vital to the energy bill,” Speaker Ryan said. “I thank him for his leadership and willingness to serve as a conferee on this important legislation.” “We intend to advance a wide range of important energy and natural resource reforms through this conference process,” House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-01) said. “I look forward to working with our colleagues in the Senate to build agreement on final legislation.” "I am excited to work with senators and other House members to discuss the science and benefits of healthy forests, access to public lands, and improving our nation’s energy policy and infrastructure," Westerman said. “This is a tremendous opportunity to advocate for the forests and landowners that make up so much of my district and this nation. I thank the Speaker for this opportunity.”
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday (May 25) approved amendments to S. 2012, the Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2016. The Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2016, a bill introduced by Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) and passed by the House of Representatives on July 9, 2015, was included as an amendment. Upon passage, Westerman issued the following statement: “Inclusion of the Resilient Federal Forests Act in amendments to the Senate energy bill shows the importance of updated forestry policy,” Westerman said. “Over 10 million acres of federal land went up in smoke last year. It is clear that the policies of the last several decades failed. Active forest management is needed to improve forest health, prevent wildfire, promote clean air and water, improve wildlife habitat, strengthen rural America, and protect life and property. I am proud to see this important legislation pass the House for a second time, and hope to see the President sign it into law.” A conference committee of House and Senate members will meet to finalize details of the bill.
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement in response to efforts by health insurance companies operating in Arkansas to increase premiums by as much as 23 percent: “The announced rate increases by insurance companies proves what I and others have said for many years – the Affordable Care Act is not affordable to those paying the bills or to retirees who have paid into Medicare throughout their careers,” Westerman said. “Obamacare is driving up costs for insurance companies, all government payers, and thus taxpayers both through government fees and in the purchase of health insurance. While Obamacare provides for ‘free’ healthcare to some it is causing many hardworking individuals to choose between paying for ever-increasing premiums or medications, food, and other necessities. We must find a solution for our troubled healthcare payment system that ends Obamacare, gets the government out of the market control business, and truly puts patients first.” Arkansas Insurance Department: AID Releases Health Rate Requests For 2017
05.23.2016	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives on Monday (May 23) passed H.R. 3931, a bill to designate the United States Post Office located at 620 Central Avenue, Suite 1A in Hot Springs National Park as the Chief Petty Officer Adam Brown United States Post Office. Brown, a Hot Springs native, overcame many adversities in his life – including addiction – before joining the U.S. Navy and becoming a member of SEAL Team SIX. On March 17, 2010, American forces were engaged in a firefight in Komar Province, Afghanistan, when members of Brown’s unit were cornered. Chief Petty Officer Brown maneuvered to draw enemy fire away from his unit and toward himself. He died as a result of his heroic actions. “Chief Petty Officer Brown’s story is a great American success story. His battle to overcome addictions to not only become one of the nation’s most elite warriors but also to be a husband, father, and a man who lived out his faith is a story worth celebrating and remembering,” Westerman said. “Adam exemplified the SEAL code of loyalty to country, team, and teammate, giving his life to save the members of his unit. Though he was killed in the line of duty, his selfless actions ensured victory for his brothers in arms. Adam’s love for America was evident by his selfless actions. On this week before Memorial Day, it is my hope that this piece of legislation will not only serve to honor Adam, but that it will also honor all of the men and women from the Fourth Congressional District of Arkansas who have given their lives in defense of the United States.” Chief Petty Officer Brown’s story was the basis for the New York Times bestselling book “Fearless.” Co-sponsors of this legislation are Congressmen Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03), Andy Barr (KY-06), Jim McDermott (WA-07), and Ryan Zinke (MT-At Large). Zinke, like Brown, was a member of the Navy’s SEAL Team SIX. H.R. 3931 will now proceed to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
05.18.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (May 18) upon passage of the National Defense Authorization Act: “A strong national defense is important to our security and Arkansans play an important role,” Westerman said. “In the Fourth Congressional District, we have several thousand citizens going to work each day building components for the F-35 bomber, building munitions, and doing numerous other duties to help keep America safe. The National Defense Authorization Act keeps our country safe through the hard work of proud Americans in places like Camden, Pine Bluff, Texarkana, and Sebastian County, all of which support major military operations. I am proud to have voted to keep America safe and I’m thankful for all the Arkansans who make our safety a reality.” The NDAA included an amendment introduced by Westerman that directs the construction of 20 additional surface-to-air PAC-3 Missile Segment Enhancement (MSE) at Highland Industrial Park in Camden. The missiles are part of the Patriot Air Defense system utilized by the Army.
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement in response to the Obama administration’s directive ordering schools to allow transgender students to use the restroom of their gender choice: “Last night, the Obama administration made our children political pawns in a move that promotes perversion,” Westerman said. “Threatening our local schools over who uses which restrooms is an attempt to bully local schools into accepting an offensive, radical social agenda. I will not stand for this attack on children, nor will the American people. I condemn in the strongest terms the actions of the U.S. Department of Education and the U.S. Department of Justice and will work with my House colleagues on an answer that ensures local schools continue to have local control without interference and intimidation from Washington.” BACKGROUND INFORMATION U.S. Department of Education: U.S. Departments of Education and Justice Release Joint Guidance to Help Schools Ensure the Civil Rights of Transgender Students (Press Release)U.S. Department of Education/U.S. Department of Justice: Dear Colleague Letter on Transgender Students (.pdf)
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) joined his House colleagues Thursday (May 12) in voting for H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Reduction Act of 2016. Before the vote, Westerman delivered the following statement on the House floor. (Statement as prepared.) “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. “I rise today in support of H.R. 5046. I thank the gentleman from Wisconsin for his work to combat the nation’s opioid epidemic. “This legislation impacts Arkansas by freeing up new grant funds for drug courts. Drug courts have a positive impact on people’s lives, and are integral to countering our nation’s opioid epidemic “Drug courts in Arkansas have a strong record of success. The Jefferson County Drug Court has a recidivism rate of 4.9%. Drug courts have also saved billions of taxpayer dollars—on average, it costs $14 per day to send a person to a drug court, whereas incarceration costs $58 per day in Arkansas. Taxpayers also save money because these individuals can return to the workforce, and provide for the families. “Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to support H.R. 5046 to counter this epidemic that is ruining our families, lives, and communities. “I yield back the balance of my time.” H.R. 5046 passed by a vote of 413-5. Video of the speech may be found on Congressman Westerman’s YouTube channel.
05.10.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement Tuesday (May 10) upon passage of H.R. 4063, the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act: “Providing world class care for our veterans is the primary mission of the Veterans Administration’s hospitals and clinics,” Westerman said. “Prescription opioids took the life of Jason Simcakoski. The PROMISE Act will prevent similar tragedies by revamping how VA facilities prescribe opioids. Employees will receive proper education and training so no veteran will needlessly lose his or her life under a doctor’s care.” According to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, H.R. 4063 will: Improve Department of Veterans Affairs opioid safety measures; Strengthen the Joint Working Group on Pain Management of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense; Require a GAO investigation and report on VA opioid use and treatment; and Require disclosure of certain veteran information to state controlled substance monitoring programs.
05.06.2016	HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement Friday (May 6) in commemoration of Small Business Week 2016 (May 1-7): “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy,” Westerman said. “Our nation’s 28 million small businesses are under attack by burdensome government regulations. As the partner in a small business for many years, I experienced government red tape first hand. In order to protect small businesses and the countless men and women employed there, I have joined my colleagues in sponsoring common sense legislation and will continue to do so.” Since taking office in January 2015, Westerman has co-sponsored the following bills aimed at protecting small businesses: H.R. 1624, the Protecting Affordable Coverage for Employees Act (signed into law on October 7, 2015); H.R. 596, the repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (passed by the House on February 3, 2015); H.R. 30, the Save American Workers Act of 2015 (passed by the House on January 8, 2015); and H.J. Res. 61, the Hire More Heroes Act of 2016 (passed by the House on July 27, 2015). According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, there are 240,123 small businesses in Arkansas employing 476,232 people. The totals represent 96.6% of all businesses in Arkansas employing 48.7% of all private-sector Arkansans.
05.04.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) announced Maurice Bradford of Hot Springs’ Lakeside High School Tuesday (May 3) as winner of the Fourth District Congressional Art Competition. Bradford’s submission, entitled “Discovery,” placed first in a field of 105 entries. “I congratulate Maurice for this achievement,” Westerman said. “His talent is impressive and he is a wonderful representative of the Fourth Congressional District. I look forward to his art being placed in the Capitol, where I and thousands of others will see it each day.” Each spring, a nationwide high school arts competition is sponsored by members of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Artistic Discovery Contest is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in the nation, as well as in the Fourth Congressional District. The Artistic Discovery Contest is open to all high school students in the Fourth District. The winning artwork will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. The exhibit in Washington includes the winning artwork from all participating districts from around the country. The winning artwork is also featured on House.gov's Congressional Art Competition page. The following are the top five submissions to the Fourth District Congressional Art Competition: 1st Place: Maurice Bradford, Lakeside High School, “Discovery” 2nd Place: Cassidy Light, Woodlawn High School, “Order Out of Chaos” 3rd Place: Kayla Morrow, Arkansas High School, “Women of the World” 4th Place: Kayla Morrow, Arkansas High School, “Lights” 5th Place (Tie): Maggie Haney, Paris High School, “Charlie and Macy” 5th Place (Tie): Rebecca Jackson, Arkansas High School, “Chapel In the Woods” Art competition submissions may be viewed at Westerman’s Flickr page. Photos of the winning entries and artists are available for download at Westerman’s Facebook page.
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 2901, the Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act: “As residents of the Fourth District found out last year, floods can wreak devastation in a short amount of time and leave lasting damage,” Westerman said. “The Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act would put the tools in place for better flood insurance coverage for thousands of at-risk Arkansans, including the introduction of private insurers in the flood insurance marketplace. It is a winning solution for residents who want protection from a flooding disaster without extravagant costs.”
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 699, the Email Privacy Act: “For far too long, it has been too easy for the American government to snoop on law-abiding Americans,” Westerman said. “The Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 was written in a time before emails and text messages became dominant forms of electronic communication. Passage of H.R. 699 will protect the privacy rights of law-abiding Americans and create a uniform warrant standard for all law enforcement seeking access to private electronic communications. This bill strikes the right balance between privacy and security.” According to the House Judiciary Committee, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 was passed to provide a fair balance between the privacy expectations of American citizens and the legitimate needs of law enforcement agencies. The law sets forth a system to protect the privacy rights of customers and subscribers of computer network service providers and governs requests to obtain stored content, records, or other information, which includes stored emails, text or instant messages, documents, videos, or sound recordings stored in the cloud. ECPA applies not only to federal criminal investigations and prosecutions, but to state and local investigations and prosecutions, public safety requests, and civil investigations in which stored communications of these types of information are sought. Westerman, along with Congressmen French Hill (AR-02) and Steve Womack (AR-03), co-sponsored H.R. 699.
04.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) joined his House colleagues this week in voting for measures to hold the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) accountable to American taxpayers. Monday (April 18) was the final day for taxpayers to submit tax returns, payments or extension requests for tax year 2015. “On Monday, taxpayers across America were completing their tax returns and in many cases, paying large tax bills as a result of higher taxes imposed by the Obama administration,” Westerman said. “In response, the House this week has voted on numerous tax bills that would hold the IRS accountable and protect taxpayers from an agency whose power is out of control. A change in our tax laws is long overdue and while the House has not fixed everything this week, it is a first step on the long road to a fairer tax code and a smaller government. The American worker deserves to keep as much of their hard earned money as possible, and they deserve a tax system that is fair and transparent.” The following bills were passed by the House this week: H. Res. 687: Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1206) to prohibit the hiring of additional Internal Revenue Service employees until the Secretary of the Treasury certifies that no employee of the Internal Revenue Service has a seriously delinquent tax debt; H.R. 3724: Ensuring Integrity in the IRS Workforce Act of 2016; H.R. 4885: IRS Oversight While Eliminating Spending (OWES) Act of 2016; H.R. 4890: To impose a ban on the payment of bonuses to employees of the Internal Revenue Service until the Secretary of the Treasury develops and implements a comprehensive customer service strategy; and H.R. 4903: To prohibit the use of funds by the Internal Revenue Service to target citizens of the United States for exercising any right guaranteed under the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) joined a bipartisan group of congressmen Wednesday (April 20) for the launch of the Working Forests Caucus. The caucus – co-chaired by Westerman, Reps. Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Sanford Bishop (GA-02), and Collin Peterson (MN-07) – was formed to advocate for working forests across the United States. These include highlighting the economic, environmental, and social benefits of private working forests, and supporting policies to promote this renewable resource. The American Forest and Paper Association said the forest products industry accounts for four percent of U.S. manufacturing GDP annually, manufacturing more than $200 billion in products and employing 900,000 people each year. Updates to the tax code, as well as changes in how the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) treats forest biomass and declaring it carbon neutral, are goals of the caucus. A total of 45 members from the Democratic and Republican parties from all over the United States have signed on to be inaugural members of the Working Forests Caucus. “As a professional forester in a district more than 80 percent forested, I know how important working forests are to the economy of Arkansas,” Westerman, a Yale-educated forester, said. “Working forests are our nation’s number one renewable resource. Healthy working forests promote clean air and water. There is no downside to a healthy forest. Through my work in the Working Forests Caucus, I will be a voice for the Fourth District of Arkansas and the thousands employed in the forest products industry.” “Our communities in Southwest Washington rely on responsible timber management, made possible by the magnificent forests that surround us,” Beutler said. “Today we launched the bipartisan Working Forests Caucus in order to bring science-based management to our forests that will sustain this wonderful resource as well as good, family-wage jobs for generations to come.” “Minnesota forest owners and loggers provide a healthy respect for forests while producing some of the finest products in the world,” Peterson said. “The forest industry supports more than 30,000 hardworking people in Minnesota and grows three times as much as is harvested. I am looking forward to the Working Forests Caucus and promoting the benefits of private timberlands for our nation’s rural economy.” High resolution photos from Wednesday’s launch may be downloaded from Westerman’s Flickr account. A complete list of Working Forests Caucus members may be found here.
04.19.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (April 19) in response to Mexico’s decision to no longer ban Arkansas poultry: “Mexico’s decision to lift its ban on Arkansas poultry is good for the Fourth District and all of Arkansas,” Westerman said. “While the ban was in place, Arkansas poultry farmers were unfairly limited in the export market, slowing sales and impacting our local economy. Mexico is an important market for Arkansas poultry exports. I am thrilled to see our neighbors and trading partners once again open to one of the Fourth District’s major economic drivers.”
04.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives Thursday (April 14) to honor Nicholas Brown of Hot Springs and Michael Tharp of Hope. Brown and Tharp are emergency medical services professionals in the Fourth Congressional District who were honored this week by Star of Life Awards by the American Ambulance Association (AAA). Both men were selected by their peers to receive the award. For more than 20 years, the AAA “has honored those paramedics, emergency medical technicians (EMTs) and other ambulance service professionals who exemplify what is best about the emergency medical services (EMS) field,” the association said. The complete language of Congressman Westerman’s speech: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor two heroes from the Fourth Congressional District of Arkansas. Nicholas Brown of Hot Springs and Michael Tharp of Hope were awarded the American Ambulance Association Star of Life Awards this week. These men are both veterans who served their nation with valor before returning home to Arkansas and joining the private sector. But their sense of duty brought them back to public service, with both men now working as emergency medical services professionals. They are first responders saving lives in their hometowns every day. I congratulate Nicholas and Michael on this award and thank them for their service. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.” VIDEO: Westerman Honors Arkansas Heroes (YouTube)
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (April 13) upon passage of three bills aimed at strengthening border security: “Improvements to our nation’s border security are long overdue and needed to protect the homeland from terrorist threats,” Westerman said. “As we have seen in Paris, Brussels, and other locations throughout the western world, terrorism knows no borders. The United States must continue to be on guard and these bills are the latest examples of Congress’ efforts to keep the American people safe.” The bills approved by the U.S. House of Representatives include H.R. 3586 (Border and Maritime Coordination Improvement Act), H.R. 4482 (Southwest Border Security Threat Assessment Act of 2016), and H.R. 4403 (Enhancing Overseas Traveler Vetting Act).
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Wednesday (April 13) in response to the death of former Fourth District Congressman, Arkansas Supreme Court Justice, and Ouachita Baptist University Director Ray Thornton: “Congressman Ray Thornton was a gifted politician and statesman whose work reached across Arkansas,” Westerman said. “Twice a congressman, he took a stand for justice during one of our nation’s most trying times as a member of the House Judiciary Committee. Between his two tours of service in the House, Ray made his impact in higher education not only in Arkadelphia, but also in Fayetteville and Jonesboro. The universities he led turned out thousands of men and women who have made a lasting impact in too many fields to mention. Though he retired from higher education and Congress, Ray’s dedication to the Natural State continued with his service on the Arkansas Supreme Court. His life was one of service to his fellow man and dedication to his state and nation.” Thornton served as Arkansas Attorney General from 1971-1973, Fourth District Congressman from 1973-1979, director of Ouachita Baptist University from 1979-1980, president of Arkansas State University from 1980-1984, president of the University of Arkansas from 1984-1989, Second District Congressman from 1991-1997, and Associate Justice on the Arkansas Supreme Court from 1997-2005.
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (April 12) upon passage of H.R. 4676, the Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act of 2016: “Our veterans gave everything in service to our country, often doing multiple tours of duty in far off war zones while in constant danger,” Westerman said. “When a veteran returns home, he or she should be safe from harm. The Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act of 2016 seeks to keep veterans safe from predators who may try to defraud a veteran or survivors of veterans. This bill imposes as much as five years jail time and possible fines for anyone who defrauds a veteran or survivor of benefits. It protects our heroes and protects the benefits our veterans and their families have earned.”
04.08.2016	HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Green Building Council’s inclusion of wood products from forests certified by the American Tree Farm System (ATFS) and the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) in its Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) program: “It is welcome news that USGBC has now recognized the leading roles that American Tree Farm System (ATFS) and Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) have played in responsible and sustainable forestry management for decades,” Westerman said. “Encouraging more environmentally friendly wood use in buildings from a broader domestic production area is not only a win for consumers, builders, and forest products producers, but it's a win for nature and the outdoors. Part of the solution for restoring resiliency to our U.S. forests is to find more markets for forest products to encourage sound forest management which will in turn reduce wildfires. Healthy and resilient forests translate into cleaner air, cleaner water, more biodiversity, better wildlife habitat, a better economy, and fewer tax dollars going to fight wildfires.”
03.25.2016	WASHINGTON – Senator John Boozman, Senator Tom Cotton, Congressman Rick Crawford, Congressman French Hill, Congressman Steve Womack, and Congressman Bruce Westerman today issued the following statement in response to an announcement by the Department of Energy (DOE) to use Section 1222 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (P.L. 109–58) to partner with Clean Line Energy in an energy transmission project across Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Tennessee. “Today marks a new page in an era of unprecedented executive overreach as the Department of Energy seeks to usurp the will of Arkansans and form a partnership with a private company – the same private company previously denied rights to operate in our state by the Arkansas Public Service Commission. Despite years of pushback on the local level and continuous communications between our delegation and Secretary Moniz, DOE has decided to forgo the will of the Natural State and hand over the historic ability of state-level transmission control through this announcement. “We now will begin the process of careful review over DOE’s decision and will continue to address our concerns through any avenue necessary. Section 1222 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 establishes specific conditions that must be met before this authority is used, and we expect the Department to release all details of their review so that our staff and Congressional investigators will be able to continue the process of oversight. “It is our firm belief that the DOE has overstepped its bounds and reversing this decision through the passage of the APPROVAL Act remains a top priority.” Last year, Senator Boozman and Congressman Womack – with the support of the entire Arkansas delegation – introduced the Assuring Private Property Rights Over Vast Access to Land (APPROVAL) Act (S. 485/H.R. 3062). The APPROVAL Act would restore states’ rights to approve or reject an electric transmission project prior to the federal government exercising its power to take private property. The legislation directs the U.S. Department of Energy to obtain the approval of both the governor and the state’s public service commission before approving any Section 1222 transmission project and subsequent use of federal eminent domain, as well as the approval of any tribal government for affected lands.
03.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Tuesday (March 22), the Subcommittee on Federal Lands held a hearing on the President’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget proposal for the U.S. Forest Service with U.S. Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell testifying. A focal point of the hearing was the Forest Service’s inability to actively manage federal forests and prevent increasingly catastrophic wildfires. Subcommittee Chairman Tom McClintock (R-CA) and Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-AR) called upon the agency to support H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015, legislation to alleviate a range of cumbersome and lengthy environmental processes and help prevent increasingly catastrophic wildfires from occurring in the first place. H.R. 2647 passed the House in July 2015 with strong bipartisan support. “The Forest Service points out that fire suppression has become its greatest expense. The House addressed this last year in the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015 that now languishes in the Senate.” Subcommittee Chairman Tom McClintock (R-CA) stated. “The fact is fire expenses will grow every year until we restore sound forest management practices to our national forests and that in turn will require very different policies than those presented by the Forest Service today.” “As I listened to your testimony, I thought we did that, we tried to help you out with the Resilient Federal Forest Act,” stated Rep. Westerman, the chief sponsor of H.R. 2647. “A lot of the things that you mentioned that you needed to make life better with the Forest Service, we have that in the Resilient Federal Forest Act. I wish we could get the Administration behind that to get it out of the Senate because I think it would make a tremendous positive impact on our national forests.” H.R. 2647 solves the budgetary issues related to wildfire suppression borrowing and reforms management policies to increase the scope of management activities on a scale necessary to improve forest health across federal lands. Click here to view the full witness testimony or here to view Westerman’s questions.
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement on the Modernizing the Interstate Placement of Children in Foster Care Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives on Tuesday, March 22. “Congress is removing the bureaucratic hurdles that have stopped otherwise routine adoptions from taking place," Westerman said. "There are far too many children in need of loving homes today. H.R. 4472, the Modernizing the Interstate Placement of Children in Foster Care Act, will make it possible for children in foster care or guardianship to be placed in loving homes across state lines, joining families that will love them and provide for them. This is the right thing to do for children in Arkansas and across the United States who are in need of a loving family.”
03.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Monday (March 21) after voting for H.R. 4314, the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act: “Terrorists seek the destruction of democracy and freedom,” Westerman said. “It has been proven time and again, from September 11th to the terror attacks in Paris and San Bernardino. To aid in our defeat of terrorism and protect Americans, we must have a plan to track and hinder the movement of terrorists who seek to do us harm. The Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016 would combat international travel by terrorists, establish international border security standards, and hold accountable countries that do not join the United States in these efforts.” ###
03.17.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (March 17) after voting for H.Res. 639, authorizing Speaker of the House Paul Ryan to file an amicus brief on behalf of the U.S. House of Representatives in the matter of United States, et al. v. Texas, et al.: “President Obama, on several occasions, has tried to unilaterally re-write the law,” Westerman said. “The Constitution makes it clear that Congress writes laws, not the president. The action today by the House of Representatives will send a clear signal to the president and the American people that executive overreach will not stand unchallenged. The president has violated the Constitution and we, the people’s representatives, are speaking on their behalf to the United States Supreme Court.”
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04), a member of the House Committee on the Budget, issued the following statement following final committee passage of the proposed FY2017 federal budget, A Balanced Budget for a Stronger America: “The balanced budget passed out of committee will provide a framework for regular order in the discretionary appropriations process and will lay the groundwork for mandatory spending reforms through the reconciliation process which are required if we're ever to balance our budget,” Westerman said. “The financial and economic future of our country is in the balance. Failure to promptly address our spending problems is not only irresponsible but will magnify the problems and force them onto our children and grandchildren. Passage of a budget is a small and critical first step in addressing these issues. I commend Chairman Price and my colleagues on the Budget Committee for their hard work and I look forward to bringing this budget to a vote in the full House along with even more conservative budget resolutions such as the Republican Study Committee Budget that I also support.”
03.04.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) co-sponsored the bipartisan Army Arsenal Revitalization Act (AARA) on Thursday (March 3), a bill which aims to increase the amount of business directed to Army arsenals, such as the Pine Bluff Arsenal. Westerman joined lead co-sponsor Congresswoman Cheri Bustos (IL-17) and Congressman Paul Tonko (NY-20), both of whom represent districts with manufacturing arsenals. Representatives Dave Loebsack (IA-02) and Tammy Duckworth (IL-08) also signed on as original co-sponsors. In the U.S. Senate, similar legislation was introduced by Senators Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), and Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). “The Army Arsenal Revitalization Act is essential to the Pine Bluff Arsenal and others across the nation,” Westerman said. “Our nation’s arsenals need the tools necessary to be viable in an increasingly competitive economy. The AARA will allow arsenals across America to not only stay competitive, but possibly increase the size of workforces in struggling communities like Pine Bluff. I want to thank Congresswoman Bustos for her efforts to revitalize our nation’s arsenals and I look forward to quick action on this bill.” “The Rock Island Arsenal not only strengthens our national security by manufacturing equipment that protects our troops, but it is also the engine that drives our region’s economy,” Bustos said. “This legislation will remove barriers to the Arsenal’s success, and takes critical steps to bolster the Arsenal’s competitiveness for years to come.” The Pine Bluff and Rock Island Arsenals play a necessary role in our armed forces by adapting to the needs of the military and quickly manufacturing critical items to protect our troops. Too often, unnecessary barriers prevent arsenals from engaging in manufacturing opportunities. As a result, arsenals have difficulty obtaining enough work to maintain a strong and skilled workforce. The Army Arsenal Revitalization Act requires the Department of Defense to identify work opportunities that the arsenals are uniquely qualified to meet. The legislation also allows arsenals to function more like a company by adjusting the rates they charge customers for labor as needed to be competitive with industry. Specifically, the Army Arsenal Revitalization Act: Increases Competition Sources for Department of Defense Contracts: This bill requires the Department of Defense to identify legacy items and sole source contracts over a certain dollar amount and to consider Army arsenals as manufacturers for these items going forward. Adds Flexibility for Labor Rates Charged to Arsenal Customers: Army arsenals need the tools to keep themselves viable and competitive. The Army Arsenal Revitalization Act creates a 3-year pilot program in which arsenals will be able to adjust their labor rates throughout the year based upon their workloads and other factors instead of charging a fixed rate, which is often non-competitive. Identifies and Maintains Critical Capabilities: In order to meet national security needs, Army arsenals must maintain critical skill sets. This bill requires the Department of Defense to identify each arsenal’s critical capabilities and the workload they need to efficiently maintain those skills. ###
03.03.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) will host “Coffee with your Congressman” at two locations on Wednesday, March 9. The events will be held at the Cleveland County Courthouse, 20 Magnolia Street in Rison at 9:30 a.m., and the Grant County Chamber of Commerce at 202 North Oak Street in Sheridan at 1:30 p.m. “Coffee with the Congressman” is an opportunity for constituents to speak directly with Congressman Westerman about the issues facing the Fourth District. Coffees are free and open to the public. More information about “Coffee with your Congressman” and other events in the Fourth Congressional District may be found by visiting https://westerman.house.gov/about/events. ###
03.03.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) voted Thursday (March 3) for H.R. 4557, the BRICK Act (Blocking Regulatory Interference from Closing Kilns). Prior to passage, Westerman delivered the following speech on the House floor: “I rise today in support of H.R. 4557, the BRICK Act,” Westerman said. “This legislation delays an unnecessary rule that imposes overly-strict emissions standards on BRICK kilns. Manufacturers shouldn’t have to deal with the hassles of an overzealous regulator in the first place, but they should at least get to have their day in court fighting this unreasonable regulation before incurring millions of dollars of expense to comply. Since 2003, brick manufacturers have reduced emissions from kilns by 95 percent. However, the EPA decided to impose another Washington mandate on small businesses which they may not even be able to meet. Shuttering U.S. brick factories will lead to higher costs for American consumers, making it even more expensive to open a business or raise a family. “Additionally, manufacturers will shed good-paying jobs in places like Malvern, Arkansas, and once against our manufacturing needs will move offshore to a place that pollutes much worse than we do here. Not only is the EPA out touch with reality on this issue, they exhibit no common sense when they regulate jobs away from America and send them to countries that pay subpar wages and have subpar pollution control technology. They have a lose, lose proposition. This is the same EPA that negligently released millions of gallons of toxic mine water into the Animas River, tried to cover up and minimize their actions, refused to take responsibility, and resists being held accountable. If anyone needs more regulation, it’s this out of control federal agency, not hardworking Americans. For the sake of our environment and economy, I urge the House to pass the BRICK Act to keep the air cleaner and to save good-paying jobs here at home.” VIDEO: Westerman Speaks in Favor of the BRICK Act ###
02.26.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement after Friday’s (Feb. 26) passage in the House of H.R. 2406, the SHARE Act: “This week, the House passed the SHARE Act,” Westerman said. “This bill protects our Second Amendment rights by eliminating regulatory hurdles that stifle hunters’ and anglers’ access to public lands. Sportsmen contribute $1.5 billion to the Natural State’s economy every year, and support over 25,000 jobs in Arkansas. I was glad to support this legislation, and look forward to working with my colleagues to further protect the Second Amendment and expand access to public lands.” ###
02.25.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) will host an online town hall to take place Monday, Feb. 29, at 2:30 p.m. CST. During the online town hall, Congressman Westerman will respond to comments posted to the live video stream on the congressman’s Facebook page. Constituents may also ask questions on Twitter using the hashtag #AskWesterman. “I enjoy engaging with constituents over coffee and during telephone town hall events,” Westerman said. “Using social media, I am able to touch base with constituents in real time. I hope constituents log on and ask questions about the work being done on their behalf in Washington.” Questions may be posed in the days prior to the online town hall by commenting at facebook.com/RepWesterman or posting an update to Twitter using the #AskWesterman hashtag. More information on Congressman Westerman may be found by visiting westerman.house.gov. ###
02.23.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (Feb. 23) in response to President Barack Obama’s announced plan to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and bring terrorist prisoners to American soil: “The president has put the interests of extremists ahead of Americans,” Westerman said.“His announced plan to shut down the prison at Guantanamo Bay is an olive branch to terrorists, explicitly inviting terrorists to our shores who would like nothing more than to inflict harm on Americans. Congress will fight the president’s efforts to appease ISIS and others bent on killing Americans and destroying our way of life.” ###
02.23.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement after Mid-America Science Museum in Hot Springs was named a finalist for the 2016 National Medal for Museum and Library Service: “I congratulate Mid-America Science Museum for being named a finalist for the 2016 National Medal for Museum and Library Service,” Westerman said. “Mid-America has not only made a difference in the lives of Garland County families, but has impacted generations of Arkansans. The museum’s focus on bringing science education to the masses and doing so in a fun way has made it a leader in the state and nation. Mid-America’s recent expansion continues its mission, bringing science to life for generations to come.” The Institute of Museum and Library Services said National Medal winners will be named later this spring with representatives from winning institutions traveling to Washington, D.C., to be honored in a White House ceremony. ###
02.17.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – The office of Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) is accepting submissions from Fourth District high school students for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition through Friday, April 15. The Congressional Art Competition, established in 1982, enables high school students to showcase their artistic ability in the Cannon Tunnel that connects the House office building complex to the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. Each year, more than three million people view this gallery as they walk through the Cannon Tunnel. Entries to the Congressional Art Competition should be submitted no later than Friday, April 15, to Westerman’s Fourth District office at 101 Reserve St. Ste. 200, Hot Springs, AR 71901. Entries may be submitted in person during regular business hours (8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CST, Monday through Friday) or by mail. Winners will receive two round-trip tickets to Washington, D.C., where they will attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony and may be eligible for a scholarship to one of the leading colleges in art and design in the United States. For more information, including a downloadable rules and release form, visit the “Art Competition” section under the “Services” tab on our website at westerman.house.gov or contact Cara Cox at (501) 609-9796 or cara.cox@mail.house.gov. ###
02.16.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Service Academy Information Nights will be hosted at high schools across the Fourth District of Arkansas, Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) announced Tuesday (Feb. 16). The events provide students and parents information on the application, nomination, selection, and appointment processes at the United States’ five service academies. In addition to information on nominations, representatives from each of the following academies will be present to give a short orientation and to answer questions: The United States Military Academy at West Point, New York; The United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; The United States Coast Guard Academy at New London, Connecticut; The United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York; and The United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado. Each academy appointment has an estimated value of over $400,000 and appointment is competitive. Each academy selects nominees on the basis of moral character, scholastic achievement, physical fitness, leadership, and college admission test scores. More information on service academy nominations may be found at westerman.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations. Westerman encourages all interested students to attend one of the following academy nights: El Dorado High School (March 2nd) 2000 Wildcat Drive El Dorado, AR 71730 6 p.m. – 8 p.m. Pine Bluff High School (March 3rd) 711 West 11th Avenue Pine Bluff, AR 71601 6 p.m. – 8 p.m. Mena High School (March 8th) 1200 Dallas Avenue Mena, AR 71953 6 p.m. – 8 p.m. Arkansas School for Mathematics, Sciences, and the Arts (March 9th) 200 Whittington Avenue Hot Springs, AR 71901 6 p.m. – 8 p.m. Arkansas High School (March 14th) 1500 Jefferson Avenue Texarkana, AR 71854 6 p.m. – 8 p.m. Clarksville High School (March 15th) 1703 Clark Road Clarksville, AR 72830 6 p.m. – 8 p.m. ###
02.11.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (Feb. 11) in response to the Supreme Court’s decision to temporarily block the Obama Administration’s greenhouse gas emissions rules on power plants: “The Supreme Court has sided with the American people,” Westerman said. “Instead of bypassing Congress to rewrite our nation’s laws, President Obama is seeing the Constitution enforced and our nation’s system of checks and balances at work. This is a first step by the high court that I hope results in a permanent ban on the president’s radical ideas that support extreme environmental interests instead of the will of the American people. For the health of our economy and for our future more progress needs to be made to rein in out of control regulators in what some refer to as the fourth branch of government. Stopping the "regulatory branch" will take a concerted effort from the three real branches of government at the Capitol, at the White House, and in the courts.” ###
02.10.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) was joined by Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson Monday (Feb. 8) to award top honors for the Fourth District’s Congressional App Challenge. The Congressional App Challenge is a competition aimed at encouraging U.S. high school students to learn how to code by creating their own applications. The Challenge is intended to highlight the value of computer science and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) education and encourage students to engage in these fields. By encouraging and recognizing our nation’s young programming talent, Congress hopes to shine a light on the growing importance of these skills. A total of 11 apps were submitted to the Fourth District Congressional App Challenge. The winning app, “ARSchools,” was created by Hamburg High School Students Ana Cruz, Star Lowrey, Shelly Whitt, and Drake Streeter. “I am proud to see so many talented young people creating apps that meet needs in education, finance, the non-profit sector, and more,” Westerman said. “Competitions like the Congressional App Challenge align with Governor Hutchinson’s efforts to teach coding in public schools and encourage work in STEM fields, giving Arkansas students a competitive advantage in a competitive job market.” “As governor, I want to congratulate every student who competed in this year’s Congressional App Challenge,” Hutchinson said. “In Arkansas, we are committed to giving our students every opportunity for success – both in the classroom and in the workforce. The future of coding and computer science education in Arkansas is gaining momentum, and I applaud Congressman Westerman for his support of this important initiative.” The “ARSchools” app will be on digital display at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., along with winning apps from other congressional districts. Following are runners up for the Fourth District Congressional App Challenge: 2nd Place: “Fulfill,” Alexa Donley, Fountain Lake Charter High School; 3rd Place: “How to Help,” Brandon Cox, Lauryn White, Chelsey Vermillion, and Timothy Tignor, Arkansas School for the Mathematics, Sciences, and the Arts; 4th Place: “On-the-Go Currency,” Bryan Stacy, Reagen Richburg, Craig Hensley, and Zane Savell , Fouke High School; and 5th Place: “uFeel,” Kenzie Glass and Kristie Glass, Springhill High School. More information on the Congressional App Challenge may be found at westerman.house.gov/congressionalappchallenge. * Media seeking photos of the winning teams may download high resolution photos at flickr.com/photos/repwesterman. ###
02.09.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04), a member of the House Committee on the Budget, issued the following statement Tuesday (Feb. 9) after the release of President Barack Obama’s proposed Fiscal Year 2017 budget. “Congress has just started our review of the president’s proposed budget, but already we can see the president is not working in reality but instead has created a budget based in fantasy," Westerman said. "The president called this budget ‘a road map to a future that embodies America’s values and aspirations.’ How does the president’s proposed $6.1 trillion in deficit spending over the next decade embody America’s values and aspirations? His proposed budget, which is a non-starter, would continue a policy that will further mortgage America’s future if it were implemented.” ###
02.04.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (Feb. 4) following passage of the READ Act (H.R. 3033), a bill co-sponsored by Westerman: “Dyslexia is the most common learning disability, affecting more than 90 percent of all individuals identified as learning disabled, including an estimated one out of six U.S. school children,” Westerman said. “This learning disability causes difficulty with reading comprehension, math, and a variety of other subject areas. More research is needed to understand dyslexia so students receive research-based instruction and have the best opportunity to learn and succeed in the 21st century. That is why I co-sponsored and voted for the READ Act of 2015. This bill is good for students, educators, and America.” U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21), chairman of the House Committee on Space, Science, and Technology (of which Westerman is a member), was primary sponsor of the READ Act. He released the following statement in response to Thursday’s vote: “Today we can help millions of Americans have a brighter and more prosperous future. Despite the prevalence of dyslexia, many Americans remain undiagnosed, untreated and silently struggle at school or work. We need to enable those with dyslexia to achieve their maximum potential. I am glad that the House and Senate were able to work together and send the president a good bipartisan bill to help accomplish this goal.” The SST Committee noted in its release that the READ Act requires the president’s annual budget request to Congress to include the Research in Disabilities Education program of the National Science Foundation (NSF). As amended, the bill requires the NSF to devote at least $2.5 million annually to dyslexia research, which would focus on best practices in the following areas: Early identification of children and students with dyslexia; Professional development about dyslexia for teachers and administrators; and Curricula development and evidence-based educational tools for children with dyslexia. Westerman will host the Congressional Dyslexia Forum in Hot Springs March 7. Visit westerman.house.gov/DyslexiaForum2016 for more information. ###
02.04.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – After reports that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) plans to deny urgently needed assistance to American cotton farmers and rural communities that depend on our domestic cotton industry, Representative Rick Crawford (AR-1), the Subcommittee Chairman for General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, along with Rep. French Hill (AR-2), Rep. Steve Womack (AR-3), and Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-4) issued the following statement. "On December 15th of last year, a rare coalition of rural and urban Democrats and Republicans from inside and outside of cotton country came together for a common purpose. More than 100 of these Members requested in a letter that the Secretary of Agriculture use his authority to allow cottonseed to be eligible for commodity programs under the Farm Bill. Our letter has yet to receive a response, but yesterday, we learned that the Secretary declined to help our cotton producers, who are currently challenged by severely depressed market conditions in the face of unfair foreign competition. The seriousness of the situation calls for the immediate action of the USDA, which must show the same concern for our producers all around the country, regardless of what they raise. The livelihoods of American families depend on it.” Background In December 2015, cotton producers and House lawmakers encouraged Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to add cottonseed as an “other oilseed." Language in the 2014 Farm Bill allows the Secretary of Agriculture to designate “other oilseeds” that qualify for Farm Bill commodity programs. More than 100 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives sent this letter the Secretary and did not receive a response. Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack, and Bruce Westerman each signed the letter. In a speech on February 3rd, 2016, Secretary Vilsack announced that the USDA would not declare cottonseed an oilseed. ###
02.03.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) is seeking Summer interns in his Hot Springs and Washington, D.C. offices, he announced Wednesday (Feb. 3). "As a former Congressional intern through a Future Farmers of America fellowship, I know how important internships are in developing engaged citizens and future leaders in America," Westerman said. "I am excited to welcome Fourth District interns to my Hot Springs and Washington offices and look forward to their contributions." In Washington D.C., interns' responsibilities will vary. The Washington office will be hosting three interns during the Summer I and Summer II sessions. Each will be expected to interact with constituents, research legislation for the Member and legislative staff, attend hearings and briefings, and answer constituent letters on various issues before the House. Interns will also have the opportunity to draft press releases, assist with media clips, and other work to support the Fourth District office. As a result, interns will learn about the legislative process and the many other functions of a congressional office. The Hot Springs office will host one intern per summer session. In this office, interns may be asked to do a variety of tasks, including day-to-day office work such as interacting with constituents, writing letters, and assisting with media clips. In addition, interns may be assigned to assist in various constituent casework or District-based projects that are of benefit to constituents. Positions are unpaid, though students will gain invaluable work experience. The hours are flexible to accommodate students' course schedules, but generally run from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. ET/8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CT. Interns in both Washington and Hot Springs will be responsible for their own travel, housing and living costs. While our office will prioritize candidates from the Fourth District and Arkansas, we will accept and review all applications. Washington internships are open to students who have completed two years of college. Hot Springs internships are open to high school students who have completed their sophomore year, as well as college students. Summer Session I internships will run from May 16 – July 1, 2016. Summer Session II internships will run from July 5 – August 19, 2016. More information on internships, including an application, may be found at https://westerman.house.gov/services/internships. Applications will be accepted on a rolling basis. Questions about potential internships may be directed to Intern Coordinator Jordan Garcia at 202-225-3772. ###
02.01.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) voted Monday (Feb. 1) for H.R. 400 – the Trafficking Prevention in Foreign Affairs Contracting Act – and the Senate Amendment to H.R. 515, which creates an International Megan’s Law to track the international travel of registered American child-sex offenders. Following the votes, Westerman released the following statement: “Since my time in the Arkansas General Assembly, I have stood for the innocent and worked on legislation that aims to prevent human trafficking and sex crimes against children. With passage of these bills, Congress today spoke with a unified voice in defense of our nation’s innocent children. Passage of H.R. 400 and H.R. 515, along with last year’s passage of the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act (H.R. 159), are part of the continuing bipartisan effort to stop trafficking and protect our nation’s most vulnerable. I look forward to continued efforts to strengthen our laws and make human trafficking history.” H.R. 159 was passed Jan. 27, 2015, and signed into law by President Barack Obama. Other anti-human trafficking legislation passed in Jan. 2015 include: H.R. 468 (Enhancing Services for Runaway and Homeless Victims for Youth Trafficking Act of 2015), H.R. 469 (Strengthening Child Welfare Response to Trafficking Act of 2015), H.R. 246 (a bill to improve the response to victims of child sex trafficking), H.R. 514 (Human Trafficking Prioritization Act), H.R. 515 (International Megan's Law to Prevent Demand for Child Sex Trafficking), and H.R. 357 (Human Trafficking Prevention Act). See also “Westerman Applauds Passage of Sex-Trafficking Legislation” ###
01.21.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS, Ark. – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) joined nine House colleagues Wednesday (Jan. 20) in demanding answers from the United States Department of Justice and Attorney General Loretta Lynch regarding potential federal liability resulting from a prescribed burn conducted on April 14, 2010. The U.S. Forest Service conducted a controlled burn in Logan County, Ark., which “allegedly spread onto private land owned by Deltic Timber Corporation (Deltic), damaging 174 acres of 2-3 year old pine trees” and $49,519.28 in property damage, according to Deltic. “On October 1, 2010, Deltic submitted Standard Form 95-108, as required under the Federal Tort Claims Act to receive compensation. More than five years later, Deltic has yet to receive a response from DOJ, and DOJ now allegedly refuses to even speak with Deltic about this matter,” Westerman wrote. “It is puzzling that DOJ can find the time and manpower to appeal a prison sentence for two individuals who damaged federal land when a prescribed burn crossed onto public land, but refuses to respond to my constituents over a five-year period when a similar federal liability is in question.” Westerman went on to say the Justice Department “must meet its responsibilities, including paying back damages caused by federal actions, if liable. This is a glaring example of a slow federal response to the needs of the American people. We simply ask that DOJ give Deltic a prompt answer as to whether the federal government owes them any compensation.” The Department of Justice refused to comment in response to a previous letter dated Oct. 29, 2015, from Westerman to Civil Division Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer. Members who signed the Jan. 20 letter include U.S. Reps. Paul Gosar (AZ-04), Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03), Tom McClintock (CA-04), Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48), Steve Pearce (NM-02), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), and Cynthia Lummis (WY-At Large). FILE: Jan. 20, 2016, letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch (.pdf)FILE: Oct. 29, 2015, letter to Civil Division Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General Benjamin C. Mizer (.pdf) ###
01.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Friday (Jan. 15) in response to the Obama Administration’s plan to halt new coal leaseson federally-owned property: "The Obama Administration is yet again exercising executive overreach neglecting the separation of powers instead of working with Congress to implement policy reflecting the will of the American people,” Westerman said. “The result will be higher energy prices on Americans already struggling to make ends meet and negligible, if any, benefit to the environment." ###
01.13.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement after voting Wednesday (Jan. 13) for S.J. Res. 22, a bill that provides for congressional disapproval of the Waters of the United States rule: “Disapproval of the WOTUS rule is a major check on the Environmental Protection Agency’s attempt to regulate almost all waters of the United States, whether or not they impact the quality of a navigable waterway,” Westerman said. “The EPA received thousands of comments in opposition to their water grab, but not only did they ignore them, they illegally used social media to skew the comments in favor of their rules. I am pleased to see a bill pass both the House and Senate that forces the Administration to withdraw the existing WOTUS proposed rule, a rule that infringes on private property rights and will have a negative impact on farmers, ranchers, and other job creators. I look forward to working with my colleagues to find a creative solution that permanently reins in the EPA’s attempts to regulate beyond their legal authority.” ###
01.12.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (Jan. 12) in response to President Barack Obama’s last State of the Union address: “President Obama's message is simple - he gives up,” Westerman said. “As evidenced by his recent executive orders on gun control, the president has stopped trying to work with Congress to pass meaningful legislation in a bi-partisan manner. He refuses to listen to the will of the people. The president gave us a laundry list of ways he's bypassed the people's House to create laws with no debate and no compromise. As Congress continues to find ways to protect our citizens, improve economic opportunity, balance the budget, and improve access to quality healthcare, President Obama vows to obstruct all of it. Despite President Obama's efforts to ignore the country's problems, this year Congress will offer solutions to defeat radical Islamic terrorism, get our national debt under control, and fight poverty.” ###
01.07.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) testified Thursday (Jan. 7) before the International Trade Commission on the topic of unfair trade practices. Westerman’s testimony focused on the impact unfair trading conditions have had on Domtar Paper Company, which owns and operates an integrated pulp and paper mill in Ashdown, Arkansas. In December 2014, Domtar announced its “Number 64” machine at its Ashdown facility would be permanently converted from manufacturing paper to manufacturing “fluff pulp,” a material used as the absorbent material in baby diapers and adult incontinence products. The conversion will cost the region 100 high-paying manufacturing jobs. “I credit Domtar for doing what they have done to lessen this impact, but this is little consolation to the sandwich shop owner or the transmission shop owner who has seen customers disappear,” Westerman testified. “I am here today on behalf of the more than 900 Ashdown employees to ask that the preliminary determinations of dumping by producers in Australia, Brazil, China, Indonesia and Portugal and the preliminary imposition of countervailing duties against producers in Indonesia and China be made final. “The issue of unfair international trade is not just impacting Domtar and the other petitioners, but indeed has negatively impacted all segments of the industry. As producers, in the countries cited earlier, dumped their products on our shores, some at subsidized prices, domestic producers have seen their market share erode away. The 4th Congressional District has lost paper production at several sites over the recent past. Allowing foreign producers to have unrestricted access to the open markets of the United States, while some of these producers are knowingly defrauding us by dumping undervalued products is inexcusable.” Westerman’s complete testimony is available for download at westerman.house.gov (.pdf). ###
01.06.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) voted Wednesday (Jan. 6) for reconciliation, a bill that would gut the Affordable Care Act and repeal large portions of Medicaid expansion. Westerman participated in a press conference Wednesday morning with House Speaker Paul Ryan, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Majority Whip Steve Scalise, and GOP Conference Chairwoman Cathy McMorris-Rogers. He made the following statement at Wednesday’s press conference: “Today is an exciting day where we see the process of reconciliation work, where we will put a bill on the president’s desk and give him the choice to support the American people or to reject the will of Congress and the will of the American people," Westerman said. "This bill guts Medicaid expansion. This is one of the most egregious parts of Obamacare. If you look at traditional Medicaid, it’s for the aged, blind, and the disabled. Medicaid expansion is for working age, able-bodied adults. We pay 57 percent of the cost to states for traditional Medicaid the aged, blind, and disabled yet we’re paying 90 percent to 100 percent for the cost of Medicaid expansion. Today’s a good day. I’m excited to be a member of Congress and a part of the Republican conference.” VIDEO: Congressman Bruce Westerman’s Statement on ReconciliationVIDEO: Full Video of Wednesday’s Leadership Reconciliation Press Conference ###
01.05.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement Tuesday (Jan. 5) in response to President Obama's executive orderson gun control: “President Obama’s executive orders will not stop gun violence but will infringe upon the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding citizens to sell and purchase firearms," Westerman said. "His latest unconstitutional executive orders are simply his newest political power play. Ironically, these out-of-touch orders will boost gun and ammunition sales as Americans react to an overreaching administration bent on restricting our freedoms. We need a president focused on constructive solutions to America's real issues such as national security and our crippling debt that has skyrocketed during President Barack Obama's tenure.” ###
01.02.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement Saturday (Jan. 2) mourning the death of former Arkansas Sen. Dale Bumpers: "My thoughts and prayers are with the family of Sen. Bumpers," Westerman said. "He was a statesman who served Arkansas with distinction. His legacy is one of dedication to this state we all love." ###
12.17.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman voted Thursday (Dec. 17) for a series of tax cuts estimated to save American families and workers more the $560 billion over the next decade. He issued the following state after Thursday’s vote: “These tax cuts are a benefit to American families and workers who labor too long and too hard to give the federal government anymore of their tax dollars,” Westerman said. “These tax cuts will put more money in the hands of everyday Americans, money that can be invested in small businesses, invested for children’s educations, saved for retirement, used for a down payment on a home, and more. Constituents in Arkansas deserve this tax cut and I am proud to have voted in favor of workers and families across the Fourth District of Arkansas.” Highlights of the tax cuts – known as the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act – include the following: A permanent extension and modification of deduction for certain expenses of elementary and secondary school teachers indexed to inflation in future years; Extension of deduction of State and local general sales taxes; Extension and modification of special rule for contributions for capital gain real property made for conservation purposes; Extension and modification of research credit; Improves to section 529 Education Savings Plans; and And permits rollovers from other retirement plans into SIMPLE IRA accounts. ###
12.10.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman released the following statement after meeting today with U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Ernest Moniz to get thorough answers to questions they asked in September about the Plains and Eastern Clean Line Transmission Project: “We appreciate Secretary Moniz listening to our concerns about the the Plains and Eastern Clean Line Transmission Project and the use of section 1222 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to implement this project. We continue to have serious concerns that this project erodes the rights of local communities and the State of Arkansas to have a seat at the table in the decision making process.” In September, members asked the Secretary to address their detailed concerns about the federal government’s possible unprecedented partnership with a third party to construct an electrical transmission project through Arkansas. The insufficient responses to their questions led members to request a meeting with Secretary Moniz in early November. Read the letters members sent to Secretary Moniz here. Citing insufficient responses to their questions, Boozman and Cotton placed a hold on the confirmation vote of a DOE nominee earlier this month. ###
12.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) voted Tuesday (Dec. 8) for H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Program Improvement & Terrorist Travel Prevention Act. Westerman issued the following statement after the vote: “This week, I voted with my House colleagues for the Visa Waiver Program Improvement & Terrorist Travel Prevention Act,” Westerman said. “This bill will close gaps in the visa waiver program, which allows individuals from more than 30 countries to visit the U.S. with only a passport. It adds additional layers of protection to stop Islamic radicals that often fight with ISIS from entering America from friendly nations. This is just the latest effort the House has taken to keep Americans safe at home. Living in a free and open society carries certain risks. I am committed to limiting those risks to our security while protecting the personal liberties upon which our nation was founded.” Items included in H.R. 158: Denying VWP status to individuals who have connections to terrorist hotspots; Demanding strong intelligence and law enforcement information sharing; Enhancing screening of all travelers in VWP countries; Preventing extremists from using fraudulent documents to evade detection; Increasing threat monitoring of VWP countries; and Taking steps to ensure VWP travelers do not falsify their background information. FOR MORE INFORMATION .pdf: Background: Visa Waiver Program and Existing Security Gaps .ppt: Visa Waiver Program Powerpoint ###
12.03.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (Dec. 3) upon passage of the conference report to accompany H.R. 22 – the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015: “Passage of a long term highway and transportation bill is good for Arkansas and good for America. This bill allows local governments to properly plan highway construction and improvement projects. This bill is a benefit to the citizens of Arkansas and our state’s economy.” ###
12.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement Thursday (Dec. 3) after passage of H.R. 8, the North American Energy, Security, and Infrastructure Act of 2015: “The North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act is an update to U.S. energy policy that’s long overdue,” Westerman said. “Through passage of this bill, the House seeks to modernize America’s energy infrastructure, update and protect our nation’s electric grid to withstand 21st Century threats, and strengthen America’s status as the leading producer of oil and natural gas. H.R. 8 also seeks to improve energy efficiency, lower electric bills, and make government energy programs more efficient and accountable. I applaud this bill’s passage and look forward to its approval in the Senate.” ###
12.01.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement Tuesday (Dec. 1) after passage of S.J.Res. 23 and S.J. Res. 24, resolutions which express congressional disapproval of the Obama administration’s greenhouse gas emissions rules: “Passage of these resolutions opposing the Obama administration’s attack on fossil fuels is a stand for Arkansas’ economic well-being and will be better for the environment in the long run. The citizens of Arkansas continue to pay the price for the president’s executive actions. We must put an end to the executive branch’s out of control policy making, which will cause a loss of American jobs and hurt the bottom line of families across Arkansas. It’s the job of Congress to make policy, not the president.” ###
11.19.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (Nov. 19) following his vote for the American SAFE Act of 2015, a bill authored by Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul in conjunction with six House committees. Congressman Westerman co-sponsored the bill along with 88 other House members: “The American SAFE Act is a first step in keeping Americans safe, but it’s not the end of our work,” Westerman said. “Immediately following the terror attacks in Paris six days ago, the Members of the House worked over the weekend to expedite legislation already in development to address the refugee issues and designed to step up security in the United States. The SAFE Act will require the administration to verify these refugees are not terrorists. The administration and the FBI have already said they cannot verify refugees from Syria are not radicalized, so this bill would immediately stop the flow of unverifiable and potentially dangerous individuals into the United States. This common sense legislation is supported by the vast majority of America. It has bi-partisan support and it is a bill the president should support to prevent future attacks. My constituents and the American people should know we have other tools, including the upcoming Omnibus bill, we can use to protect the homeland should the president veto this legislation. The risks from radicalized terrorists both homegrown and from abroad will not go away, so the House will not stop working to protect America.” Statements from the Obama administration and the FBI: Homeland Security Secretary Jeh C. Johnson: "It is true that we are not going to know a whole lot about the Syrians that come forth in this process. That is definitely a challenge...We know that organizations like ISIL might like to exploit this [Syrian refugee resettlement] program…The bad news is that there is no risk-free process." (Oct. 21, 2015, Homeland Security Committee hearing) FBI Director James B. Comey: "There is risk associated with bringing anybody in from the outside, but especially from a conflict zone like [Syria]. My concern there [about bringing Syrian refugees into the United States] is that there are certain gaps I don't want to talk about publicly in the data available to us." (Oct. 8, 2015, Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee hearing) ###
11.16.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (Ar-04) issued the following statement condemning the Paris terror attacks, which left hundreds dead and injured Friday (Nov. 13): “My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Paris as they deal with this tragedy that has left 129 men and women dead and hundreds more injured. These attacks were committed by a group of radical Muslims in an attempt to spread their brand of cowardice and misery. These attempts to rob the French, Americans, and other democracies of their freedoms will only strengthen resolve against the terrorists' misguided and warped view of the world. I am sickened by not only these attacks, but also by President Barack Obama’s weak response. Just hours before the French capital came under attack, he absurdly claimed Daesh had been ‘contained.’ And then hours afterwards, the president released detainees from Guantanamo Bay. These are radicalized Muslims who history has shown are likely to end up back on the battlefield, killing innocent men, women, and children. America must show strength and stand with our French allies. We must stop the flow of radicalized Syrian refugees to America. We must put the safety of America and our allies above all else.” ###
11.05.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON — U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton—along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman—are questioning the timing of the Department of Energy’s (DOE) release of its Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for the Plains and Eastern Clean Line Transmission Project. In a letter sent Wednesday to DOE Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz, members expressed concern because they have yet to receive answers to the questions asked in a September letter about the department’s potential partnership with the Clean Line project. “The Department should not have issued the FEIS before responding to our September 14 letter, which specifically urged that ‘in your initial response to this letter, please provide an anticipated timeline for a comprehensive response and production of requested information. If the Department can more quickly produce a complete response through a series of partial productions and responses, please provide an anticipated timeline for such productions and responses.’ This request, to date, has also been disregarded,” members wrote in the letter. Read both letters in their entirety here. Members also requested a meeting with Secretary Moniz and urged that DOE not issue a final decision on the project until the Secretary completely and thoroughly responds to the September 14, 2015 letter. DOE is considering the use of Section 1222 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (P.L. 109–58) to partner in an energy transmission project in Arkansas, Oklahoma and Tennessee. Throughout the history of electric transmission siting, transmission projects have been reviewed and approved at the state level. ###
11.05.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (Nov. 5) upon House passage of S. 1356, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016: “President Obama’s veto of the NDAA put our national security at risk. His actions put petty politics ahead of national defense and showed a lack of leadership,” Westerman said. “Today's vote is another attempt by Congress to provide for our national defense, properly support our soldiers and keep Americans safe at home and abroad. The signing of the NDAA would send a strong signal to our military this Veteran’s Day that Washington will always put our troops before politics. It is my hope the president signs this latest attempt by Congress to fund the military.” S. 1356 passed the House by a vote of 370 Yeas, 58 Nays. ###
11.04.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) introduced legislation Wednesday (Nov. 4) naming the downtown post office in Hot Springs National Park after Chief Petty Officer Adam Brown. Brown, a Hot Springs native, overcame many adversities in his life before becoming a member of SEAL Team SIX. On March 17, 2010, U.S. forces were engaged in a fire fight in Komar Province, Afghanistan. During the fight, members of Brown’s unit found themselves cornered. Chief Petty Officer Brown maneuvered to draw enemy fire away from his comrades and toward himself. He died as a result of his heroic actions. “Chief Petty Officer Brown’s story is a great American success story and his battle to overcome addictions to not only become one of the nation’s most elite warriors but also to be a husband, father, and a man who lived out his faith is a story worth celebrating and remembering,” Westerman said. “Adam exemplified the SEAL code of loyalty, team, and team mate, giving his life to save the members of his unit. Though he was killed in the line of duty, his selfless actions ensured victory for his unit. The enemy compound was captured by coalition forces and all Taliban forces were killed. Adam’s love for Arkansas and America was evident by his selfless actions. Through this legislation, I hope to honor Adam’s life and ensure his legacy is remembered and will encourage future generations.” Should the legislation pass the House, the post office at 620 Central Avenue, Suite 1A in Hot Springs National Park will become the Chief Petty Officer Adam Brown Post Office. Chief Petty Officer Brown’s story was the basis for the New York Times bestselling book “Fearless.” Co-sponsors of this legislation are Congressmen Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03), Jim McDermott (WA-07), and Ryan Zinke (MT-At Large). Zinke, like Brown, was member of the Navy’s SEAL Team SIX. ###
11.03.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) announced a series of mobile offices taking place Monday, Nov. 9 (all times central). The Fourth District's mobile offices assist constituents with Veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security and other services involving the federal government. Anyone in need of assistance may also contact Rep. Westerman's Hot Springs Office weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. by calling (501) 609-9796 or by visiting westerman.house.gov. District offices are located in El Dorado at 101 North Washington Street, Ozark at 211 West Commercial Street and Pine Bluff at 100 East 8th Avenue, Room 2521. The Hot Springs office is located at 101 Reserve Street, Suite 200. Mobile office locations and times: Malvern City Hall 305 Locust Street Malvern, AR 72104 8 a.m. – 9 a.m. Dallas County Courthouse 206 West 3rd Street Fordyce, AR 71742 10 a.m. – 11 a.m. Cleveland County Courthouse 20 Magnolia Street Rison, AR 71665 11:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Grant County Courthouse 101 West Center Street Sheridan, AR 72150 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. ###
11.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement Monday (Nov. 2) in response to the Department of the Interior’s report finding the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) actions directly led to the spill of three million gallons of toxic wastewater at the Gold King Mine in Colorado in August. “This report confirms what we have suspected for months – the EPA was responsible for the Gold King spill,” said Westerman, a member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee. “In hearings and public statements, EPA Adminstrator McCarthy and others involved with the mine project have skirted responsibility. It is time for the EPA to be honest with Congress and honest with the American people. The agency should admit its failings, admit an engineer was not involved throughout the entire process on the project, and create safeguards to prevent another catastrophe like the Gold King Mine spill from happening again.” Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (TX-21) released a statement in late October admonishing the EPA over its failure to prevent the Gold King Mine spill, calling the EPA’s actions “negligent” and “inexcusable.” In a committee hearing in September, Westerman, Smith, and other members of the Science Committee were able to question officials under oath about the spill. Not only was the EPA not forthcoming with Colorado officials – in some cases not notifying authorities until 24 hours after the spill – but it did not respond to the Committee’s request for information in a timely manner. Westerman filed a complaint on Sept. 21 against the EPA with the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies, Division of Professions and Occupations. Westerman, a professional engineer, said at the time he believed the Environmental Protection Agency had been involved in the “practice of engineering” as defined by Colorado state law and was not competent or licensed to practice engineering. U.S. Department of the Interior: Technical Evaluation of the Gold King Mine Incident (.pdf) ###
11.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CROSSETT – The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has completed a draft Habitat Management Plan and Environmental Assessment (draft HMP/EA) as stepped down from the Comprehensive Conservation Plan (CCP) for Felsenthal national Wildlife Refuge (NWR). The public is invited to comment on the proposed management plan. For comments to be considered in the preparation of the final plan, comments must be submitted by November 27, 2015. You may submit comments in writing to the refuge office or by email at tina_chouinard@fws.gov. Comments will also be taken at three public meetings. The first public meeting will be held on Thursday, November 5, 2015, at the El Dorado Conference Center – Murphy Hall I, 311 South West Avenue, El Dorado, AR. The second meeting will be held on Tuesday, November 10, 2015, at the Warren Court House – Old Courtroom, 101 East Cedar, Warren, AR. The third meeting will be held on Thursday, November 12, 2015, at the First Baptist Church Multi-Ministry Center, 703 Pine St., Crossett, AR. These meetings are held from 6 – 8 p.m., with a presentation starting at 6:15 p.m. There will also be two informal open houses held on November 7 and 14, 2015, at the Felsenthal Visitor Center, 5531 Hwy 82 West, Crossett, AR, from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. To obtain a copy of the Draft HMP/EA: Visit https://www.fws.gov/refuge/felsenthal/ to download the Draft HMP/EA; or Call (870) 364-3167 for an electronic copy via CD. For more information, contact Felsenthal National Wildlife Refuge at (870) 364-3167. ###
10.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator John Boozman and Congressman Steve Womack today delivered statements about the importance of the Assuring Private Property Rights Over Vast Areas to Land (APPROVAL) Act before Congressman Bruce Westerman and members of the House Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water, Power and Oceans. The APPROVAL Act would restore states’ rights to approve or reject an electric transmission project prior to the federal government exercising its power to take private property. The legislation directs the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to obtain the approval of both the governor and the state’s public service commission before approving any Section 1222 transmission project and subsequent use of federal eminent domain, as well as the approval of any tribal government for affected lands. Boozman and Womack introduced the legislation earlier this year with the full support of the Arkansas Congressional Delegation. “The APPROVAL Act will reinforce and build grassroots support for renewable energy. States and local communities must know their voices will be heard in the transmission siting process – and that a transparent process will be followed. When communities have this assurance, they can get behind the renewable projects that our country needs. Unfortunately, due to the current structure of Section 1222, support for such projects has been set-back in Arkansas by a sense that a federal agency may force a transmission project for which there is no clear demand or demonstrated need,” Boozman told subcommittee members. Click here to read Boozman’s full statement. Watch video of Boozman’s testimony here. “Initially, [Clean Line Energy] was denied a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity to exist as a utility in the state of Arkansas by the Public Utility Commission, because the project was determined not to be in the best interest of Arkansans. As a result, DOE is in the process of considering a new type of partnership, potentially usurping the state’s role, ignoring the lack of necessity for transmission in the region, and setting a dangerous precedent for the future of federal authority... [The APPROVAL Act] makes a small adjustment to the approval proceedings for interstate transmission projects which will then allow governors and state public service commissions to have a say in the process prior to DOE exercising any federal eminent domain power,” Womack said in his statement. Click here to read Womack’s full statement. Watch video of Womack’s testimony here. “The right to private property is fundamental to a free society. Unfortunately, the federal government continues to show little respect for this important personal liberty. I strongly support the APPROVAL Act because it safeguards landowners from the threat of having their property taken through eminent domain. This bill provides flexibility and empowers our states by ensuring they have the final say on eminent domain. I was pleased to see the Natural Resources Committee debate the APPROVAL Act and look forward to its passage,” Westerman said. The hearing also included testimony from Little Rock Attorney Jordan Wimpy who represents Downwind, LLC and Golden Bridges, LLC and serves as counsel to Arkansas property owners concerned with the Section 1222 transmission project in Arkansas. “A failure to act on H.R. 3062 will not only impact my home state – the Natural State – and my firm’s clients and the many other impacted property owners, businesses and local governments in Arkansas, it will set the precedent and solidify the federal government’s inappropriate and unjust process for future projects across the country and in many other states,” Wimpy said in his statement. Read his full statement here. ###
10.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statement following his vote against the Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015: “The budget deal approved by the House today is not a good deal for the American people,” Westerman said. “The budget deal that passed the house today raises our debt limit and increases our spending caps while providing no substantial reforms in entitlements and mandatory spending. If my family or business were to reach our debt limit, we would be looking at why we reached the limit and our first response would be to see where we could cut spending to get below our limit, not increase the limit. Simply raising the limit without addressing the cause is not a responsible way to manage.” ###
10.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) announced Tuesday (October 27) a series of mobile offices taking place Monday, November 2 (all times central). The Fourth District's mobile offices assist constituents with Veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security and other services involving the federal government. Anyone in need of assistance may also contact Rep. Westerman's Hot Springs Office weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. by calling (501) 609-9796 or by visiting westerman.house.gov. District offices are located in El Dorado at 101 North Washington Street, Ozark at 211 West Commercial Street and Pine Bluff at 100 East 8th Avenue, Room 2521. The Hot Springs office is located at 101 Reserve Street, Suite 200. Mobile office locations and times: Clark County Courthouse 401 Clay Street Arkadelphia, AR 71923 8:30 a.m. – 9:30 a.m. Nevada County Courthouse 215 East 2nd Street South Prescott, AR 71857 10:15 a.m. – 11:15 a.m. Miller County Courthouse 400 Laurel Street Texarkana, AR 71854 12:15 p.m. – 1:15 p.m. Lafayette County Courthouse 1 Courthouse Square Lewisville, AR 71845 2 p.m. – 3 p.m. Columbia County Courthouse 1 Court Square Magnolia, AR 71753 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. ###
10.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) announced Tuesday (October 27) a series of mobile offices taking place Tuesday, November 3 (all times central). The Fourth District's mobile offices assist constituents with Veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security and other services involving the federal government. Anyone in need of assistance may also contact Rep. Westerman's Hot Springs Office weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. by calling (501) 609-9796 or by visiting westerman.house.gov. District offices are located in El Dorado at 101 North Washington Street, Ozark at 211 West Commercial Street and Pine Bluff at 100 East 8th Avenue, Room 2521. The Hot Springs office is located at 101 Reserve Street, Suite 200. Mobile office locations and times: Ouachita County Courthouse 145 Jefferson Street Southwest Camden, AR 71701 8 a.m. – 9 a.m. Calhoun County Courthouse 309 West Main Street Hampton, AR 71744 9:45 a.m. – 10:45 a.m. Bradley County Courthouse 101 East Cedar Street Warren, AR 71671 11:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Ashley County Courthouse 205 East Jefferson Street Hamburg, AR 71646 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Drew County Courthouse 210 South Main Street Monticello, AR 71655 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. ###
10.26.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Monday (October 26) following passage of the READ Act (H.R. 3033), a bill co-sponsored by Westerman: “Dyslexia is the most common learning disability. Dyslexia affects more than 90 percent of all individuals identified as learning disabled, and it is estimated dyslexia affects one out of six U.S. school children,” Westerman said. “This learning disability causes difficulty with reading comprehension, math, and a variety of other subject areas. More research is needed to understand dyslexia so students receive research-based instruction and have the best opportunity to learn and succeed in the 21st century. That is why I co-sponsored and voted for the READ Act of 2015, a bill that requires the National Science Foundation to fund dyslexia research. This bill is good for students, educators, and America.” The READ Act does not increase federal spending. H.R. 3033 authorizes multi-directorate, merit-reviewed, and competitively awarded dyslexia research projects using funds appropriated for the NSF Research and Related Activities account and the Education and Human Resources Directorate. ###
10.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) announced Friday (October 23) a series of mobile offices taking place Friday, October 30 (all times central). The Fourth District's mobile offices assist constituents with Veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security and other services involving the federal government. Anyone in need of assistance may also contact Rep. Westerman's Hot Springs Office weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. by calling (501) 609-9796 or by visiting westerman.house.gov. District offices are located in El Dorado at 101 North Washington Street, Ozark at 211 West Commercial Street and Pine Bluff at 100 East 8th Avenue, Room 2521. The Hot Springs office is located at 101 Reserve Street, Suite 200. Mobile office locations and times: Murfreesboro City Hall204 East Main StreetMurfreesboro, AR 719588 a.m. – 9 a.m. Howard County Courthouse421 North Main StreetNashville, AR 718529:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. Sevier County Courthouse115 North 3rd StreetDe Queen, AR 7183211:15 a.m. – 12:15 p.m. Little River County Courthouse351 North 2nd StreetAshdown, AR 718221 p.m. – 2 p.m. Hempstead County Courthouse400 South Washington StreetHope, AR 718013 p.m. – 4 p.m. ###
10.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement Friday (October 23) after voting for Budget Reconciliation: “The Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act repeals the employer and individual mandates in Obamacare. This bill puts Americans in charge of their healthcare, instead of Washington bureaucrats,” Westerman said. “It is my hope that President Obama listens to the American people and their representatives in Congress. This bill reflects their values – individual control over healthcare and fiscally-sound budgeting that will reduce deficit spending over the next decade.” According to the Congressional Budget Office, H.R. 3762 would “decrease deficits by about $130 billion over the 2016-2025 period.” The bill repeals the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that individuals obtain health insurance. It also repeals mandates that employers with 50 or more staff offer coverage. Other provisions of H.R. 3762 include (quoted from the Congressional Budget Office): A repeal of the medical device tax; Repeal the Prevention and Public Health Fund, rescinding any unobligated balances in the fund; and Prohibit federal funding of certain organizations which provide abortion services. ###
10.22.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement following President Obama’s veto of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY 2016: “Vetoing the NDAA has put our national security at risk. President Obama’s action put petty politics ahead of national defense and shows a lack of leadership,” Westerman said. “Through his veto, he has sent a dangerous message to the men and women of our military, our allies around the world, and our enemies seeking to do us harm.” ###
10.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) is accepting United States Service Academy nomination applications until November 1, 2015, his office announced Friday (October 9). Students interested in attending one of the following academies must receive a nomination from a senator, their congressman, or both before receiving an appointment: The United States Military Academy at West Point, New York; The United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; The United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York; The United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado. An academy appointment has an estimated value of more than $400,000 and competition for an appointment is intense. Each academy selects nominees on the basis of moral character, scholastic achievement, physical fitness, leadership, and college admission test scores. The earlier a student begins preparation, the more competitive that student will be. Students interested in a service academy nomination may visit https://westerman.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations. There, students will find an application that must be filled out in order to be considered for a congressional nomination. Constituents with questions about service academy nominations are asked to contact Westerman’s Hot Springs office at (501) 609-9796. ###
10.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement following passage of H.R. 702, a bill that would lift bans on export of U.S. crude oil: “It's time for Congress to bring our energy policy into the 21st century and remove trade barriers that are hindering our economic growth at home while empowering regimes like Iran that fund terrorist attacks against us and our allies,” Westerman said. “H.R. 702 simply gives us the ability to sell our products in the global oil markets. This bill is an important step forward for our economy and our national security. H.R. 702 is good for America—I urge the Senate to act immediately and implore the President to stop playing partisan politics with our energy, economy and national security. H.R. 702 needs to become the law of the land.” ###
10.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement after the Courth of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit blocked the Environmental Protection Agency’s Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) rule nationwide: “Today’s ruling to halt the Waters of the U.S. rule is another step in the long process to stop one of the Obama administration’s many overreaches,” Westerman said. “This ruling shows how the WOTUS rule was unlawful and unfair to the citizens of Arkansas and the other states impacted by this overreaching rule. I commend Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge for joining the lawsuit that resulted in the initial injunction, which protected Arkansas and 12 other states back in August. I look forward to a final ruling on WOTUS that respects our constitutional separation of powers." On May 12, the House passed H.R. 1732 – the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act. The bill would require the EPA to eliminate the WOTUS rule in its current form. Westerman voted for this bill. ###
10.05.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement after reports of a Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal was reached between the U.S. and 11 other countries: “The final text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal has not yet been released,” Westerman said. “Throughout the negotiations during my time in Congress, I have met with negotiators from the Office of the United States Trade Representative to review draft documents and to provide input so the businesses and citizens of Arkansas will benefit from this deal. I will be reviewing the final proposed trade deal over the coming months in order to determine whether the negotiators have listened to my input, to verify that the agreement would create new markets for Arkansas products, and to decide if it is in the best interest of the Fourth District, Arkansas and United States workers and economies.” ###
10.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Friday (October 2) celebrating Manufacturing Day 2015: "Today is Manufacturing Day. In the Fourth District and across America, manufacturing plays an important role in our economy and the way of life in our communities, big and small," Westerman said. "I applaud the men and women working in manufacturing across Arkansas. I will continue supporting legislation that keeps our manufacturing here at home. The industry provides what we need most - good paying jobs that support families and grow our economy." ###
10.01.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) voted Thursday (October 1) for the Justice for Victims of Iranian Terrorism Act. He issued the following statement: “The Iran Nuclear Deal rewards a country that has engaged in acts of terrorism,” Westerman said. “This bill makes sure Iran is held accountable for its actions and prevents the president from lifting sanctions until the Iranian regime has paid each victim’s family damages owed.” ###
09.30.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement following his vote against a continuing resolution Wednesday (September 30): “My vote against the continuing resolution was a vote against the status quo,” Westerman said. “My goal as a Representative in the U.S. Congress is to restore fiscal responsibility by stopping deficit spending and reducing our debt. The first step in doing this is to pass appropriations bills in regular order and then work with the Senate to resolve differences. We should not be running our government with last minute votes before deadlines and especially when these bills are thrown together by the Senate that refuses take up legislation passed in regular order by the House. This has happened time and again. It is no way to run our government." ###
09.29.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Tuesday (September 29) congratulating Park Magnet School for its designation as a National Blue Ribbon School by the U.S. Department of Education: “This designation on a national level is something we have known for many years – Park Magnet is among the best schools in America,” Westerman said. “Congratulations to the faculty, staff, and students of Park Magnet. This recognition would not happen without the dedicated teachers investing in students who give 110 percent in pursuit of their academic studies.” Park Magnet School of Hot Springs was among five Arkansas schools Tuesday to be named a National Blue Ribbon School. It was the only school in the Fourth Congressional District to receive the recognition. ###
09.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement after Monday’s (September 28) passage of the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015, H.R. 313: “Legislation like the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act is an example of what Congress can accomplish when we work together,” Westerman said. “This bill provides veterans the benefits necessary to continue recovering from their service-related injuries and I was proud the House supported our heroes.” H.R. 313 was introduced by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Massachusetts) and was co-sponsored by 33 House Members, including six Republicans. ###
09.25.2015	MEDIA ADVISORYFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) will host the following event for Fourth District constituents: WHAT: Westerman Telephone Town HallWHEN: Tuesday, September 29, 2015, from 6:45-7:45 p.m. CDT This will be Westerman’s fourth telephone town hall event. During telephone town hall events, constituents are able to speak directly with Congressman Westerman and ask questions. Residents living in the Fourth Congressional District may sign up to be called for the event by visiting https://vekeo.com/event/repwesterman-19222/. ###
09.25.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) gave the following speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives Friday (Sept. 25) marking Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week. HBCU Week runs from Sept. 20 - Sept. 26: "Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Historically Black Colleges and Universities week. More than 70 percent of students enrolled in HBCUs are low income and more than half are first generation college students. Arkansas’ Fourth Congressional District is home to one of the nation’s premier HBCUs, the University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff. While many students attending historically black colleges and universities like UAPB are standout students, a select few have risen to the top. Among them is Sidney Smith, a student from UAPB who was recently named an HBCU All-Star by the White House. I congratulate Sidney and tip my hat to all HBCUs for the work they are doing in communities across America. You are giving generations of young people a brighter future and helping them to make America what they dream it to be. "Mr. Speaker, I yield back." Video: Congressman Bruce Westerman Marks HBCU Week (YouTube) ###
09.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) issued the following statement Thursday (September 24) in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) avoidance of Westerman’s repeated request for information regarding the Gold King Mine disaster in Colorado: “The EPA has consistently avoided answering questions about the Gold King Mine disaster, even when under oath,” Westerman said. “Under oath, I requested drawings and design data from before the disaster, and I requested to know the name of any engineers who were involved in the planning and design of the Gold King Mine project. My requests have been repeatedly ignored by EPA Administrator McCarthy and her staff. Is the EPA admitting guilt through its silence or is the EPA just ignoring Congress? Whatever the answer, it is time for the EPA to own up to its failures and be forthcoming to the American people.” Westerman on Monday filed a complaint with the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies, alleging that the EPA had been involved in the “practice of engineering,” and seeking an investigation by the state after McCarthy was unable to answer questions under oath regarding the involvement of a licensed engineer in the design and implementation of the Gold King Mine project. He had also asked Mathy Stanislaus – assistant administrator of the EPA’s Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response – similar questions in a House Science, Space, and Technology Committee hearing on September 9, 2015. Even though Westerman’s attempts to get answers from the EPA to his questions under oath have repeatedly gone unanswered, EPA spokeswoman Liz Purchia had time to respond to media requests. Purchia told Arkansas News Bureau in an article published Wednesday (September 24), “Regarding Rep. Westerman’s question about occupational licensing, EPA did have an engineer licensed by the state of Colorado working on the response.” In answering the reporter’s questions, Purchia failed to acknowledge Westerman’s repeated requests to know if an engineer was involved in planning and design of the Gold King Mine project and the name of the engineer. Westerman said, “Working to clean up a mess is different than working to prevent one and the American people need to know if the EPA was negligent in following laws and taking the necessary actions to prevent the spill.” Document: Division of Professions and Occupations Complaint Form (.pdf)Document: Official Complaint with Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies, Division of Professions and Occupations (.pdf)News Article: Arkansas lawmakers pledge to hold EPA accountable for Colorado spill Press Release: Westerman Files Complaint Against EPA Over Gold King Mine Disaster Video: EPA Administrator McCarthy Can't Answer Questions from Congressman Bruce Westerman (YouTube) ###
09.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) on Wednesday (Sept. 23) announced a series of mobile offices to take place Tuesday, Sept. 29, and Thursday, Oct. 1 (all times central). Mobile offices assist constituents who are having problems with Veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security and other services involving the federal government. “Mobile offices are important for constituents who may be in need of assistance from the federal government, but cannot drive to one of my physical offices across the state,” Westerman said. “I am proud of my Fourth District staff for hosting these events acrpss the district’s counties and meeting with constituents where they live." Constituents in need of assistance may also contact Westerman's district offices weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. by calling (501) 609-9796 or by visiting westerman.house.gov. District offices are located in El Dorado at 101 North Washington Street, Ozark at 211 West Commercial Street and Pine Bluff at 100 East 8th Avenue, Room 2521. The Hot Springs district headquarters is located at 101 Reserve Street, Suite 200. The following is a complete list of Sept. 29 and Oct. 1 mobile office locations and times: Tuesday, Sept. 29Madison County Courthouse 201 W. Main St. Huntsville, AR 72740 8 a.m. to 9 a.m. Newton County Courthouse 100 E. Court St. Jasper, AR 72641 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. Johnson County Courthouse 215 W. Main St. Clarksville, AR 72830 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Mulberry Senior Center 406 Hwy. 64 Mulberry, AR 72947 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. Logan County Courthouse 25 W. Walnut St. Paris, AR 72855 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 1Yell County Courthouse 101 E. 5th St. Danville, AR 72833 8 a.m. to 9 a.m. Mansfield City Hall 200 N. Sebascott Ave. Mansfield, AR 72944 10:15 a.m. to 11:15 a.m. Scott County Courthouse 190 W. 1st St. Waldron, AR 72958 11:45 a.m. to 12:45 p.m. Polk County Courthouse 507 Church Ave. Mena, AR 71953 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. Montgomery County Courthouse 105 Hwy. 270 E. Mount Ida, AR 71957 3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. ###
09.22.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – On Monday (September 21), Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) filed an official complaint with the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies, Division of Professions and Occupations, regarding the August 5, 2015 Gold King Mine disaster. Westerman, a professional engineer, said he believed the Environmental Protection Agency had been involved in the “practice of engineering” as defined by Colorado state law and were not competent or licensed to practice engineering. “Because the EPA has not demonstrated a Colorado licensed professional engineer was engaged during the planning and design stages nor part of the Site Removal Team that was responsible for the Gold King Mine spill, the EPA was in direct violation of the Colorado statute, and should be subject to the same consequences any other entity in violation of this law would face.” Westerman’s complaint said. “I believe the spill could have been prevented, or at the very least, significantly mitigated, if the EPA had followed the engineering practice laws established to safeguard life, health, and property and to promote the public welfare.” He went on to say the “EPA’s own review affirms my belief that those conducting the work had not adequately designed a reclamation plan that safeguarded life, health, and property causing significant damage to public resources. A licensed professional engineer would have reviewed risk factors and carefully designed an appropriate solution in order to avoid such an incident.” The Gold King Mine disaster was caused after workers at the site near Silverton, Colorado, unearthed an underground chamber sending toxic waste into nearby waterways. Three million gallons was spilled as a result, polluting rivers in Colorado and New Mexico. During questioning under oath, EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy avoided answering Westerman’s questions regarding the use of engineers in the design phase of the Gold King Mine reclamation undertaken by the EPA. “Because the EPA and EPA Administrator McCarthy have repeatedly avoided answering whether a licensed engineer was involved in the planning process or was present at the mine when the incident occurred and have also failed to provide any engineering drawings or design documents, I am filing this complaint to spur the EPA into action and to prevent another incident like this from occurring,” Westerman said. “The EPA is not above the law and they, nor any other federal agency, should blatantly ignore state laws put in place to safeguard life, health, and property and to promote public welfare." A member of the House Committee on Natural Resources and the House Committee on Space, Science, and Technology, Westerman is a professional engineer with over 22 years of private engineering practice. Document: Division of Professions and Occupations Complaint Form (.pdf)Document: Official Complaint with Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies, Division of Professions and Occupations (.pdf)Video: EPA Administrator McCarthy Can't Answer Questions from Congressman Bruce Westerman (YouTube) ###
09.18.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement Friday (September 18) following his vote for the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015. "For far too long, our tax dollars have been financing abortion at the hands of Planned Parenthood. As recent videos have shown, the organization is engaged not only in abortion but other deplorable acts. That is why I co-sponsored and voted for the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 and will work to defund the organization that places more value in the selling of body parts of babies than the health of women.“ ###
09.17.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) hosted a special order following votes Thursday (September 17). The special order will focused on the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015 (passed by the House in July), wildfire prevention, and wildfire funding. In Westerman’s opening statement, he focused on recent wildfires that have ravaged the western United States this year. “Recent headlines show that our forests are in terrible shape – 8.8 million acres have burned this year,” Westerman said. “… Emergency fire spending has already topped $700 million this year and it is still growing. We have a problem that is greatly decreasing and impairing the value of the forests for the next generation. I worked with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass House Resolution 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act back in July. This bill was supported from Maine to Alaska by Democrats and Republicans. This bill ends the destructive practice of fire borrowing in a fiscally responsible manner.” Westerman concluded his speech by urging action in the Senate, saying, “The House has acted. It’s time for the Senate to act. It’s time for the administration to stop playing politics with wildfires. It’s time to make House Resolution 2647 the law of the land.” Click here to view the full speech. Six other Members of the U.S. House of Representatives participated in the special order – Reps. Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), Cynthia Lummis (WY-At Large, Chair of the Congressional Western Caucus), Tom McClintock (CA-04), Gary Palmer (AL-06), Steve Pearce (NM-02), and Ryan Zinke (MT-At Large). ###
09.16.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs), lead author of H.R. 2647 - the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015 - issued the following statement in response to the Obama Administration's request that Congress change how the United States pays for wildfire suppression efforts: “We must change the way wildfire response is paid for, but we must also focus on prevention," Westerman said. "At a time when the western United States is seeing catastrophic wildfires, it is clear that failed policies and bureaucrats in Washington are the problem. The president’s urging to address wildfire funding is only treating the symptom, not the disease following a D.C. protocol of throwing money at a problem rather than addressing the root cause. That is why the House passed my bill, the Resilient Federal Forests Act, in July. It addresses both issues simultaneously. If the president is serious about addressing funding for firefighting in the West, then my bill should be quickly considered by the Senate and signed into law by the president. The Resilient Federal Forests Act addresses the funding and cuts costs in the future through active forest management, which reduces wildfire risk.” The Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015 passed the House on July 9, 2015, by a vote of 262-167. The yeas included 19 Democrats. To learn more about the bill, click here to visit the House Committee on Natural Resources. ###
09.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON — U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton—along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman—are asking Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz to address their detailed concerns about the federal government’s possible unprecedented partnership with a third party to construct an electrical transmission project through Arkansas. The Department of Energy (DOE) is considering the use of Section 1222 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (P.L. 109–58) to partner in an energy transmission project in Arkansas, Oklahoma and Tennessee. Throughout the history of electric transmission siting, transmission projects have been reviewed and approved at the state level. In the letter, the members outline their opposition to the use of Section 1222 in this context, seek answers to a number of related concerns and call on DOE to legally justify its potential actions. “Again, we believe the Project does not meet the statutory requirements of Section 1222, and state-level reviews of many serious concerns are necessary. Therefore, in our federal lawmaking and oversight role, we oppose the use of Section 1222 in this context and we urge you to disapprove it. We recognize that in many contexts the development of new electric transmission infrastructure is necessary despite costs and adverse impacts. We are not taking a position on whether this Project or any other should move forward under non-federal authorities. Such decisions regarding electric transmissions are appropriately left to elected officials at the state and local level, where they have resided for generations. State and local officials can most effectively weigh the questions and concerns raised in this letter—and more importantly, concerns raised by our constituents—and determine whether such projects should be permitted,” the delegation states in its letter. Before asking a series of pointed oversight questions related to Section 1222, the letter urges the Department to protect each state’s authority to review transmission projects. Specifically, the letter states that this authority is important because it allows states to consider and reduce the impact of a number of potential factors, including: (1) harmful environmental impacts; (2) disproportionate impacts on rural, poor, and disadvantaged communities; (3) reduced property values on lands adjacent to the project; (4) infringements upon private property rights; (5) negative impacts to energy exploration, development, and production, including harmful impacts to existing energy infrastructure; (6) increased land fragmentation; (7) degraded public safety; (8) tribal opposition and concerns; (9) impacts to migratory birds and threatened or endangered species; (10) the exclusion of many Arkansas and Oklahoma power customers from use of the proposed transmission line; (11) the exclusion of Regional Transmission Organizations (i.e. the Southwest Power Pool and the Midcontinent Independent System Operator) from appropriate control of the transmission line; (12) decreased productivity on farms, ranches and forests; and (13) adverse socio-economic impacts associated with each of the issues addressed in this letter. Read the letter in its entirety here. ###
09.11.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement following his vote Friday (September 11) against the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “The Obama Administration’s Iran Deal is a bad deal for the American people, putting our safety and security at risk. It is also a bad deal for our allies,” Westerman said. “Israel, one of our closest allies, is under direct threat from a nation whose stated goal is destruction of the Jewish state. In fact, the Ayatollah just reiterated his stance, stating, ‘Israel will not exist in the next 25 years.’ The administration’s implementation of the deal, aided by a small minority of Congressional Democrats, would put the Iranian regime one step closer to their stated goal. My recent visit to Israel, coupled with additional briefings, has confirmed my opposition to this deal that includes secret agreements that Congress is not privy to see. How can anyone support such a major agreement when Congress nor the administration know what is in the agreement? I will continue to stand in direct opposition to our president’s bargain with the world’s leading sponsor of terrorism.” Westerman spoke on the House floor Thursday night in opposition to the Iran Nuclear Deal. His full speech may be found here. YouTube: Congressman Bruce Westerman Explains His Opposition to Iran Nuclear DealYouTube: Congressman Bruce Westerman Speaks Against Iran Nuclear Deal ###
09.01.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman today announced that Arkansas local law enforcement agencies will receive $2.3 million in federal grants from the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program to purchase law enforcement equipment and supplies. “These grants are an important investment in our state that will allow our law enforcement officers to better protect themselves, keep Arkansas communities safe and reduce crime and violence,” Boozman said. “Arkansas's law enforcement officers put their lives on the line every day to keep us safe. These grants will allow them to be better equipped to protect our communities,” Cotton said. “The effectiveness of our local law enforcement declines and the safety of our officers is threatened when access to critical equipment is limited; these grants will help ensure access to the supplies and training that Arkansas officers need to keep our neighborhoods safe," Crawford said. “Police officers provide the often underappreciated service of keeping their communities safe. This is never an easy job, and I am glad our local police departments are receiving this grant, which will improve their ability to protect themselves, as well as the people they serve,” Hill said. “Every day, our first responders selflessly serve to keep our communities safe. I applaud this grant funding, which will go a long way toward providing for the necessary equipment to protect them as they do so,” Womack said. “Our law enforcement officers require the best equipment to do their jobs. These grants awards allow them to do their jobs and protect the citizens of Arkansas,” Westerman said. The following recipients will receive funding: State of Arkansas: The Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration, Office of Intergovernmental Services will receive $1,948,090 to support multi-jurisdictional task force programs, law enforcement programs, prosecution and court programs and prevention and education programs. It will provide assistance to state and local law enforcement units to improve their effectiveness in controlling and deterring crime, including multi-jurisdictional drug task forces. The goal of the program is to provide assistance in arrest and prosecution by making the criminal files, laboratory evidence, and legal research available to the prosecutor before the trial begins. Mississippi County: Mississippi County and the City of Blytheville and will receive $18,316 to purchase new supplies and equipment for law enforcement operations. Saline County: The county will receive $12,038 to purchase a police patrol vehicle for the County Sheriff’s Office in order to support community based policing initiatives. Conway: The City of Conway and Faulkner County will receive $21,484 to purchase law enforcement equipment. El Dorado: The City of Eldorado will receive $17,049 to update its law enforcement technology supplies and equipment for use in crime prevention and criminal investigations at the El Dorado Police Department and the Union County Sheriff’s Department. Fayetteville: The City of Fayetteville, City of Springdale and Washington County will receive $72,774 to purchase equipment, supplies and training for enforcement agencies. Hot Springs: The Garland County Sheriff’s office will receive $19,612 to purchase law enforcement Tasers and holsters. Jonesboro: The City of Jonesboro and Craighead County will receive $27,675 to purchase equipment for law enforcement agencies. North Little Rock: The City of North Little Rock will receive $43,831 to purchase law enforcement equipment. Pine Bluff: The City of Pine Bluff and the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office will receive $53,968 to support law enforcement training initiatives. Rogers: The City of Rogers and Benton County will receive $29,950 to purchase supplies, equipment and new technology for law enforcement. West Memphis: The City of West Memphis and Crittenden County will receive $61,399 to purchase law enforcement equipment and provide officer training to support law enforcement initiatives. The Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program was created by the Department of Justice in 2004 to give federal state, and local governments the tools to prevent and combat crime and keep their communities safe. Since its inception, JAG has provided grants to local justice programs for technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, support, and information sharing. ###
08.31.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman today announced that 13 Arkansas airports will receive $8.5 million from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to support facility upgrades and expansions. "Airports are important to growth and development in Arkansas communities. Investments to our infrastructure will better serve the economic needs of our state and facilitate commerce and job creation,” members said. The airports receiving funding are as follows: Batesville: Batesville Regional Airport will receive $438, 971 to extend its taxiways to provide more aircraft parking. Bentonville: Northwest Arkansas Regional Airport will receive $3,498,120 to expand the apron by 11,000 square yards to meet FAA design standards. Bentonville: Bentonville Municipal/Louise M Thaden Field Airport will receive $91,064 to remove obstructions in a runway. Crossett: Z M Jack Stell Field will receive $187,677 to rehabilitate the runway and install navigation aids. Hot Springs: Memorial Field will receive $38,000 to study options to improve an airport runway. Little Rock: Bill and Hillary Clinton National Airport will receive $720,000 to update its master plan to show current and future needs of the airport. North Little Rock: North Little Rock Municipal Airport will receive $647,146 to install a new taxiway lighting system. Marshall: Searcy County Airport will receive $175,860 to rehabilitate the apron. Mount Ida: Bearce Airport will receive $292,000 to install perimeter fencing and remove obstructions in the runway. Osceola: Osceola Municipal Airport will receive $157,500 to update the facility’s master plan and address future development needs. Piggott: Piggott Municipal Airport will receive $90,900 to improve runway safety to be in compliance with FAA design standards. Rogers: Rogers Municipal-Carter Field will receive $1,975,201 to rehabilitate the apron. West Memphis: West Memphis Municipal Airport will receive $249,236 to update its master plan to reflect current and future needs of the airport. ###
08.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement following a federal judge's injunction, temporarily blocking the Environmental Protection Agency's Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “The injunction to halt the Waters of the U.S. rule is a first step in the long process to stop one of the Obama administration’s many overreaches. As I have traveled the Fourth District during the month of August, I have seen how the WOTUS rule along with others would negatively impact constituents from Newton County to Miller County and everywhere in between. It is my hope that this injunction is the beginning of the end for President Obama’s overreaching policies that have negatively impacted Arkansas and the United States these last six and a half years." ###
08.25.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement following reports that Oshkoch, Wisconsin, had been awarded a $30 Billion U.S. Army contract to build the joint light tactical vehicle (JLTV): “I am obviously disappointed for the citizens of Camden, East Camden, and Calhoun County. Officials in the cities, county, and at the state level should be commended for their work to secure this project.” ###
08.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) is seeking Fall interns in both his Hot Springs and Washington offices, his office announced Monday (August 24). "As a former Congressional intern through a Future Farmers of America fellowship, I know how important internships are in developing engaged citizens and future leaders in America," Westerman said. "I am excited to welcome Fourth District interns to my Hot Springs and Washington offices and look forward to their contributions." In Washington D.C., interns' responsibilities will vary. The Washington office will host two interns during the Fall semester. Each will be expected to interact with constituents, research legislation for the Member and legislative staff, attend hearings and briefings, and answer constituent letters on various issues before the House. Interns will also have the opportunity to draft press releases, assist with media clips, and other work to support the Fourth District office. As a result, interns will learn about the legislative process and the many other functions of a congressional office. The Hot Springs office will host one policy intern. In this office, interns may be asked to do a variety of tasks, including day-to-day office work such as interacting with constituents, writing letters, and assisting with media clips. In addition, interns may be assigned to assist in various constituent casework or District-based projects that are of benefit to constituents. Positions are unpaid, though students will gain invaluable work experience. The hours are flexible to accommodate students' course schedules, but generally run from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. ET/8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CT. Interns in both Washington and Hot Springs will be responsible for their own travel, housing and living costs. Washington internships are open to students who have completed two years of college. Hot Springs internships are open to high school students who have completed their junior year, as well as college students. Fall internships will run from August 31 to December 11. More information on internships, including an application, may be found at https://westerman.house.gov/services/internships. Individuals seeking more information about the internship program may contact Office Manager Hailey Ghee at (202) 225-3772. ###
08.19.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement following his return from a congressional delegation trip to Israel: “The opportunity to visit Israel was an opportunity to see first hand the risks facing our strongest ally in the Middle East. The visit, which included a nearly 2-hour meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, further solidified my opposition to the Iran Nuclear Deal negotiated by President Obama and Secretary Kerry. I was able to see first-hand the risks this deal poses to Israel. I heard opposition from citizens who face the risk of terrorism everyday. The deal with Iran is bad for Israel, bad for stability in the Middle East, and ultimately bad for America.” Westerman was one of 28 freshman to make the trip to Israel from August 8 through August 16. The trip was funded by the American Israel Education Foundation. ###
08.17.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement regarding the death of Hot Springs City Manager David Watkins: “Hot Springs City Manager David Watkins was a tireless advocate for the city of Hot Springs. He came to Hot Springs in April 2012 and brought with him a wide range of experience and a passion for his adopted city. I join in prayer for his family and the city staff who worked with him each day.” ###
08.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement in response to reports Entergy Arkansas has proposed a possible shutdown of coal operations at the White Bluff Electric Station in Jefferson County by 2028: “EPA’s war on affordable energy and jobs continues to harm the Natural State. EPA’s attempts to kill electricity generation at White Bluff show that it is on a crusade against stable, affordable, and abundant energy available in America and the effects are real here in the heartland where hundreds of living wage jobs and several millions of dollars of economic impact are at risk. These mandates imposed by bureaucrats in Washington will not even marginally improve visibility while higher electric bills are not only more burdensome for families, businesses, and especially seniors on fixed income, but will serve as a repellent to new manufacturing jobs. EPA needs to remove the haze from their own eyes, show common sense, work with stakeholders on better regulations, and realize the science shows that Arkansas’ visibility is good and steadily improving already.” ###
08.03.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement Monday (Aug. 3) in response to President Barack Obama’s proposal to reduce emissions at American power plants by more than 30 percent: “While the president’s new energy tax may make his radical friends jump for joy, the reality is Arkansas residents, business owners and energy providers are going to feel the pinch of regulation. The added costs that result from complying with President Obama’s overreaching mandates are going to be passed on to consumers in Hot Springs, Hope, Monticello, Mansfield, and all parts of this great country. These rules could actually make the environment worse by pushing manufacturing and jobs to countries with little or no value for the environment. I will do everything in my power to stop the president’s energy tax on business and consumers. His actions are crushing the economy and shrinking wages. It is time for the overreach to stop.” ###
07.29.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement Wednesday (July 29) following passage of H.R. 3236, the Surface Transportation and Veterans Health Care Choice Improvement Act of 2015: “Extension of federal highway funding through later this year provides the necessary time for Members of Congress to find a long-term solution to the shortfalls plaguing the Federal Highway Trust Fund,” Westerman said. “This bill is not a long term solution, but it advances us to a long term solution that I expect will benefit Arkansas roadways. In addition to keeping the Highway Trust Fund solvent, this bill also provides funding of private medical care for veterans. It is essential that we take care of our veterans and I am glad to see that the Veterans Choice Fund is allowing Arkansas’ veterans to get the care they need.” H.R. 3236 provides funding of $8.07 billion to the Federal Highway Trust Fund through Oct. 29, 2015. Current funding of the Trust Fund is set to expire Friday (July 31). Funding for health care at private medical facilities is $3.35 billion, sourced from the Veterans Choice Fund. ###
07.29.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) voted Wednesday (July 29) for the VA Accountability Act of 2015. Following approval of the bill, Westerman issued the following statement: “Today, I voted for the VA Accountability Act. Almost 250,000 Arkansas veterans trust the public servants at the Veterans Administration to provide the benefits they earned while bravely serving our country,” Westerman said. “I know that when the public’s trust is betrayed, real people get hurt. The VA Accountability Act holds public servants accountable for the quality of their work and allows the VA to remove or punish employees based on poor performance or misconduct. Through measures such as these, we can ensure that our veterans receive the care they deserve." ###
07.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement Tuesday (July 28) following passage of the REINS (Regulations from the Executive In Need of Scrutiny) Act of 2015, H.R. 427: “Regulations are the biggest struggle business owners large and small are facing today,” Westerman said. “Passing the REINS Act means companies will have less regulatory hassle and less costs associated with mandates that often are passed down by agencies with little or no public input. This bill is both a boost for businesses in the Fourth District of Arkansas and a boost for the Arkansans who depend on the jobs those businesses create.” The REINS Act requires an up or down vote by Congress for any executive regulation that will do any of the following:[1] Will Cost the economy $100 million or more; Will increase costs for consumers; or Will have a significant adverse impact on the economy and U.S. competitiveness. Westerman supported similar legislation during his time in the Arkansas General Assembly. Issue No. 1, a ballot question proposed by the Arkansas General Assembly, was approved by 59 percent of state voters in the November 2014 elections. ### [1] https://www.speaker.gov/general/rein-ing-red-tape-help-create-jobs-boost-economic-growth?Source=GovD
07.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement Tuesday (July 28) following passage of H.R. 675, the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2015: “The men and women of the United States military put their lives on the line to defend our freedoms. It is only right that as they and their dependents age, cost of living adjustments be provided for the benefits they have earned through service. Taking care of our veterans is of upmost importance and I was proud to support this bill and the veterans it benefits.” ###
07.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement congratulating the University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff on its recent ranking as one of the top five historically black colleges and universities in the United States: “The ranking of UAPB as one of the top historically black colleges and universities in America confirms what we have known for many years in Arkansas. The university is doing stellar work educating the next generation of leaders in our state and nation. I commend the university’s leadership, faculty, and staff for this placement in the top five universities.” The online publication College Choice ranked UAPB as one of the top schools in its annual ranking of the top 25 Historically Black Colleges and Universities in the United States. The complete ranking may be found here. Westerman is co-chair of the Historically Black Colleges and Universities Caucus in the United States Congress. ###
07.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement Friday following his co-sponsorship this week of two bills that would allow military service members to be armed on military sites and installations: “Last week, a gunman opened fire at a U.S. military recruiting center in Tennessee, killing four marines and a sailor. A similar event occurred in 2009 when a gunman opened fire at a recruiting center in Little Rock, killing one and injuring another," Westerman said. "Our servicemen and women are well-trained for battle, yet they are unarmed, and unable to protect themselves at home. As a result, I am co-sponsoring legislation to allow servicemen and women to arm themselves at military sites and bases. These bills are designed to prevent future tragedies because our military shouldn’t have to be at greater risk at home than abroad.” The bills co-sponsored by Westerman are H.R. 3115 - which would repeal the ban on military members carrying weapons on military bases and sites - and H.R. 3139. The latter is aimed at enhancing security at military recruiting centers. ###
07.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – In a bicameral letter sent to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, U.S. Senator John Boozman (R-AR), Congressmen French Hill (AR-02), Bruce Westerman (AR-04) and 67 other Members of Congress requested that the Department of Defense (DoD) revise its policy to allow service members to carry firearms at military bases and reserve centers. “Current Department of Defense regulations, in place since at least 1992, prohibit base commanders from allowing service members to carry personal firearms on military installations. You have the authority to change this directive, and we implore you to do so. Specifically, we ask that you allow the Commanding Officer at each of our military bases and reserve centers to authorize certain personnel to carry personal firearms as a means of enhanced force protection,” members wrote in the letter. Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson signed an executive order on Monday allowing Arkansas National Guard full-time military personnel to be armed for protection. However, this directive only applies to Arkansas National Guard installations. This letter urges the Secretary of Defense to order protective measures at DoD installations. To read the letter in its entirety click here. ###
07.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement following passage of H.R 1599, the Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act of 2015: “Consumers want to be able to make informed decisions. The Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act gives consumers that ability by standardizing food labeling for a variety of products. The labeling would be entirely voluntary but would create standard labels for non-GMO products that meet specified requirements, similar to current voluntary labeling standards for organic food. It is good for the consumer and good for agriculture and I am proud to have been a co-sponsor of this legislation." ###
07.22.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) voted Wednesday for H.R. 1734, the Improving Coal Combustion Residuals Regulation Act of 2015. Westerman issued the following statement upon passage of the bill: “The government should it be in the business of creating a regulatory environment that results in loss of jobs and economic development vital to the United States. My vote today was a vote to protect American jobs and limit government overreach. Coal combustion residuals can be responsibly disposed of and in some cases recycled in spite of the federal government’s best efforts to impose unnecessary regulations on the energy industry, costing American jobs and passing the costs to consumers.” According to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Improving Coal Combustion Residuals Regulation Act of 2015 provides for the safe management and disposal of coal ash in a manner that preserves jobs and encourages recycling. According to the committee, the recycling and beneficial use of coal ash materials keeps utility costs low, provides for low-cost durable construction materials like concrete and roofing materials, and reduces waste. Estimates project this legislation will protect approximately 316,000 jobs. ###
07.21.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement after voting for H.R. 237, the FTO Passport Revocation Act of 2015: “Individuals involved in terrorism should not be able to travel, especially overseas where they have the potential to receive terror training that could be used to bring terrorism to American streets. This bill is a good step to prevent terrorism here at home.” ###
07.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) voted Wednesday (July 15) for H.R. 3038, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015, Part II. The bill funds a five month extension of the Federal Highway Trust Fund: “Today, the House of Representatives passed a five month extension of the Federal Highway Trust Fund. Because we have immediate needs, I supported this short-term fix, although it provides no certainty to states like Arkansas. My bill, the Prioritizing American Jobs and Roads Act, would fully fund our transportation and infrastructure needs. It does this without raising taxes. It is the solution we need to keep Arkansas highway projects moving forward.” The Prioritizing American Jobs and Roads Act would change Medicaid expansion match rates established under Obamacare and paid by the federal government from a current rate of 100 percent to traditional Medicaid match rates. In Arkansas, the traditional Medicaid federal match rate is 70 percent while the state picks up the remaining 30 percent. Nationally, the average is a 57 percent federal match rate and 43 percent picked up by states. ###
07.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Steve Womack (AR-3) – along with Congressmen Rick Crawford (AR-1), French Hill (AR-2), and Bruce Westerman (AR-4) – yesterday introduced H.R. 3062, a bill to grant a state the right to approve or reject an electric transmission project prior to the federal government’s execution of newfound authority to take private property. The Assuring Private Property Rights Over Vast Access to Land (APPROVAL) Act (H.R. 3062) directs the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to obtain approval from a governor and state public service commission, prior to approval of any Section 1222 transmission project and subsequent use of federal eminent domain, as well as the approval of any tribal government for affected lands. The APPROVAL Act creates additional protections for states, as well as individuals, by requiring these projects – if approved – to be placed on federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Forest Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, or the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers whenever possible. The Senate companion bill, S. 485, was introduced by Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) in February 2015. After introduction, the original sponsors released the following statements: “The responsibility of approving electric transmission lines has historically been reserved for states, but yet again, the federal government has forced its way into a place it does not belong,” said Womack. “It is our Congressional obligation to protect states and their Tenth Amendment right to maintain ‘powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States.’” “Arkansas officials and residents should decide the best use for our state’s land, not the federal government,” said Crawford. “This legislation places the power to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ firmly in the hands of state and tribal governments, and also directs the federal government to use its own resources as much as possible, instead of infringing on the rights of private property owners.” “The right to private property is fundamental to a free society. Unfortunately, the federal government continues to show little respect for this important personal liberty,” said Westerman. “I strongly support the APPROVAL Act because it safeguards landowners from the threat of having their property taken through eminent domain. This bill provides flexibility and empowers our states by ensuring they have the final say on eminent domain. I hope to see this legislation move through the House of Representatives in a timely manner.” The DOE is currently in the process of reviewing public comments on the first application for Section 1222 authority by Clean Line Energy Partners, LLC through the Plains& Eastern project following the end of the second public comment period on Monday, July 13, 2015. This high voltage direct current (HVDC) electric transmission line, if approved, would cross the entire state of Arkansas despite being denied a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity from the Arkansas Public Service Commission. The final text of the bill can be found here. ###
07.14.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement Tuesday (July 14) in response to the Iran Nuclear Deal announced early Tuesday in Vienna, Austria: “This Administration has demonstrated time and time again its inability to work in the best interest of the American people and the interests of our allies abroad. From ignoring self-declared ‘red lines’ to ceding chunks of Eastern Europe to an adversary, the Obama administration’s dealings with the United States’ enemies has hurt our standing abroad and our safety at home," Westerman said. "There was a time when the United States of America, the world's greatest superpower, didn't negotiate with terrorists. The Administration’s negotiations with the world’s largest state-sponsor of terrorism was unlikely to ever produce a deal with terms satisfactory to the American people and our allies in the Middle East. If the terms of the deal reported by the media turn out to be true, it will be an easy choice to vote down this deal." ###
07.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act. Westerman's first piece of legislation to reach the House floor passed by a vote of 262 for to 167 against, with 21 Democrats crossing to aisle to support the legislation. "This week, the Resilient Federal Forests Act passed the House of Representatives. This bill strengthens forest management standards while reducing the overreach of the federal government and extreme environmental groups. My bill came with bi-partisan support in the House and the support of over 100 groups from California to Mississippi. But the work does not stop now, as the forestry bill heads to the Senate. I urge you to call your Senators and the Senate Majority Leader and urge them to pass the Resilient Federal Forests Act. It is good for the national forests, the local economy, and it is solid policy that limits federal overreach." ###
07.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) voted Wednesday (July 8) for H.R. 5, the Student Success Act of 2015. “Passage of H.R. 5 is important for our local schools. It is important for schools in Arkansas for one very important reason – this bill reduces the influence of the federal government in the education of your children and mine,” Westerman said. “The bill removes the federal U.S. Department of Education’s ability to promote, force, or entice states to adopt any standards, including Common Core. The bill mandates the right of parents to opt their children out of standardized testing. Any standardized testing programs will be left to the state’s discretion and not the decree of the federal Department of Education. Since this bill first came to the public’s attention at the beginning of this year, I have been working with stakeholders in Arkansas to do the right thing for our students. I believe this bill is a good first step toward our goal of complete local control of Arkansas schools with no federal government overreach.” Prior to a vote on the floor, Westerman had introduced two amendments to the Student Success Act. Both amendments, he believes, would have strengthened the final bill though they ultimately not made an order by the rules committee prior to Wednesday’s vote on the House floor. The first amendment to H.R. 5 would have removed mandates stating that 95% of all students in public schools receive assessments. The amendment would have shifted authority to state legislatures to determine the percentage or number of students who are administered state assessments. The second amendment would have clarified that a “state legislature” as opposed to a “state” must approve the education standards before they are submitted to the Department of Education for Title I funding. ###
07.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman introduced legislation today to rename the Helena-West Helena Federal building in honor of Judge Jacob Trieber. “Judge Trieber paved the way for diversity on the federal bench as the first Jewish federal judge. His work on the bench helped fight injustice and laid the foundation for equality with a lasting civic legacy that continues to impact our country. I’m proud to honor Judge Trieber for his contributions to Arkansas and the United States,” Boozman said. "Judge Trieber was a dedicated public servant and did a great deal for our state. His significant impact civil rights endures today and this building will help honor his important legacy,” Cotton said. "Jacob Trieber's tenure as a federal judge was marked by consistent hard work and national prominence as a jurist and constitutional scholar. Given his leadership in the community of Helena and beyond, it is deeply fitting for his name to be enshrined over the court he served with honor and distinction,” Crawford said. “I am proud that our delegation has chosen this fitting tribute to honor such a distinguished Arkansan. As the first Jewish Federal Judge, Jacob Trieber’s story is that of an American pioneer, and his time on the court and the decisions he made remain an important part of Arkansas’s past, present, and future,” Hill said. "Judge Trieber promoted tolerance, understanding, and communication throughout his life of accomplishment – both from the bench and through his many civic endeavors. It is fitting that he be commemorated in this way,” Womack said. “Judge Trieber was a trailblazer. His work as this nation’s first Jewish federal judge included fighting for equal justice for everyone. His legacy lives on today and it is an honor to co-sponsor legislation honoring the judge’s memory and his influence on this nation,” Westerman said. Judge Jacob Trieber served as the first Jewish federal judge. He was appointed by President William McKinley and served from 1900-1927 as the federal judge for the U.S. Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas. As a federal judge, he sought equal justice for all people. Judge Trieber had astounding foresight, and many rulings he made that were of significant importance regarding civil rights and wildlife conservation still affect us today. His commitment to the community also included time as an elected official on the Helena City Council and the Phillips County treasurer. Judge Trieber played an influential role in saving the Old State House and establishing the Arkansas State Tuberculosis Sanatorium. ###
07.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement on Tuesday (July 7) congratulating Brian Leonard of Lake Hamilton High School in Pearcy and Amanda Jones or Poyen High School. Both educators were awarded the Presidential Award for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching (PAEMST) by the National Science Foundation (NSF) on behalf of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. “STEM education is vitally important in today’s working world,” Westerman said. “It gives me pride to have two STEM educators working in the Fourth District are among the best in the state and nation in preparing our children for the future. I congratulate both Mr. Leonard and Mrs. Jones on their accomplishments and the Lake Hamilton and Poyen School Districts for hiring such outstanding educators.” According to the NSF, both educators received a citation signed by President Obama and a $10,000 award from NSF. The NSF said both will travel to Washington, D.C., for an awards ceremony at a later date. Awardee selections were announced via a White House press release. A copy of the press release may be accessed at https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2015/07/02/president-obama-honors-outstanding-mathematics-and-science-teachers. Information about each of Presidential awardees can be accessed at https://recognition.paemst.org/awardees. ###
07.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) is seeking Fall interns in both his Hot Springs and Washington offices, his office announced Tuesday (July 7). "As a former Congressional intern through a Future Farmers of America fellowship, I know how important internships are in developing engaged citizens and future leaders in America," Westerman said. "I am excited to welcome Fourth District interns to my Hot Springs and Washington offices and look forward to their contributions." In Washington D.C., interns' responsibilities will vary. The Washington office will be hosting two interns during the Fall semester. Each will be expected to interact with constituents, research legislation for the Member and legislative staff, attend hearings and briefings, answer constituent letters on various issues before the House. Interns will also have the opportunity to draft press releases, assist with media clips, and other work to support the Fourth District office. As a result, interns will learn about the legislative process and the many other functions of a congressional office. The Hot Springs office will host one policy intern. In this office, interns may be asked to do a variety of tasks, including day-to-day office work such as interacting with constituents, writing letters, and assisting with media clips. In addition, interns may be assigned to assist in various constituent casework or District-based projects that are of benefit to constituents. Positions are unpaid, though students will gain invaluable work experience. The hours are flexible to accommodate students' course schedules, but generally run from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. ET/8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CT. Interns in both Washington and Hot Springs will be responsible for their own travel, housing and living costs. While the office will prioritize candidates from the Fourth District and Arkansas, we will accept and review all applications. Washington internships are open to students who have completed two years of college. Hot Springs internships are open to high school students who have completed their junior year, as well as college students. Fall internships will run from August 31 to December 11. More information on internships, including an application, may be found at https://westerman.house.gov/services/internships. The deadline to apply for Fall internships is August 7. Individuals seeking more information about the internship program may contact Intern Coordinator Victoria Bell at (202) 225-3772. ###
06.26.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton – along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman – announce that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) today issued a major disaster declaration for the state, allowing local communities to recover from severe storms and flooding. “We are pleased with this quick response from the administration which will allow residents and local governments financial assistance to speed up recovery efforts,” members said. Under this designation, assistance is available for residents and households of Crawford, Garland, Howard, Jefferson, Little River, Miller, Perry, Sebastian, and Sevier Counties. Clark, Crawford, Dallas, Franklin, Garland, Hempstead, Howard, Independence, Izard, Jefferson, Johnson, Lafayette, Little River, Logan, Madison, Marion, Miller, Montgomery, Nevada, Newton, Ouachita, Perry, Pike, Polk, Scott, Searcy, Sevier, and Yell Counties are eligible to apply for Public Assistance for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities. All Arkansas counties will also be eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, which helps prevent or reduce long-term risks to life and property. On Wednesday, June 24, 2015 members sent a letter to President Obama in support of Governor Hutchinson’s disaster declaration request. ###
06.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton—along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman—today sent a letter to President Obama supporting Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson’s request for a federal disaster declaration for 33 Arkansas counties following severe storms and flooding. The following is full text of the delegation’s letter: We are writing in support of Governor Asa Hutchinson’s request for a major disaster declaration for the following counties in the State of Arkansas: Chicot, Clark, Crawford, Conway, Dallas, Faulkner, Franklin, Garland, Hempstead, Howard, Independence, Izard, Jefferson, Johnson, Lafayette, Little River, Logan, Madison, Marion, Miller, Montgomery, Nevada, Newton, Ouachita, Perry, Pike, Polk, Pope, Scott, Searcy, Sebastian, Sevier and Yell counties. Since May 7, 2015, the State of Arkansas has experienced a continuing pattern of destructive storms, severe flooding, and tornadoes, resulting in 3 fatalities and severe damages to hundreds of homes across the state. As we see in many crises, people have come to the aid of their neighbors; however, the extent of the damage has surpassed the state government’s ability to respond. Pursuant to the provision of Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5121-5207 (Stafford Act), implemented by 44 CFR § 206.36, we ask that Arkansas receive a major disaster declaration for these counties due to the damages assessed. We urge the approval of Public Assistance (Categories A - G), Individual Assistance (IA), including the Individuals and Households Program (IHP), temporary housing which may include manufactured housing (mobile homes, park models, etc.), Disaster Unemployment Assistance, Disaster Case Management, Disaster Legal Services, Crisis Counseling, Small Business Administration disaster loans, and Hazard Mitigation Statewide. As you know, the State of Arkansas and our communities are working tirelessly to assist citizens and begin the process of cleaning up and ultimately rebuilding. Resources at the state and local level, including the Arkansas National Guard, Arkansas Forestry Commissions, and the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department, are being fully utilized, but greater federal assistance is needed to help our communities recover. Arkansas is a predominantly rural state and this most recent series of disasters has exceeded the ability of our local governments to respond. The past several years have been particularly difficult for Arkansas residents due to numerous severe weather events impacting many of the same areas you recently visited last May 2014. Volunteer organizations, to include the Salvation Army and the American Red Cross, have provided more than 1,000 meals, and continue to provide necessary support services to displaced residents. The assistance received as a result of several earlier federal disaster and emergency declarations has been vital, and many of the same communities are still in the recovery process from these earlier disasters. We hope that a similar response will follow this disaster. Mr. President, we thank you for your attention to this matter and urge your swift consideration and approval of the state’s request. If you have any questions or need additional information, please do not hesitate to contact us. ###
06.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) voted Tuesday (June 23) to repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) created by the Affordable Care Act. Since Obamacare was enacted, the advisory board of 15 individuals chosen by the president was never appointed. “Repeal of IPAB – an unnecessary advisory board – is what the people of the Fourth District want," Westerman said. "They want less government and less overreach into their lives. The advisory board is not needed, doesn’t improve healthcare for Americans and is nothing more than a way to grow government.” ###
06.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Congressmen Rick Crawford and Bruce Westerman, today announced that five Arkansas airports will receive over $1.8 million from the Department of Transportation to support facility upgrades and expansions. "These airports are important to growth and development in Arkansas communities. Upgrades to these facilities will better serve the economic needs of our state,” Boozman said. “Local airports play a critical role in Arkansas. I am pleased these facilities will be able to make needed upgrades and continue serving our state,” Cotton said. “Updates to airport infrastructure aid regional growth by allowing local businesses and tourism to grow,” Crawford said. “Our communities will be well served by these improvements that increase connectivity throughout our state." “I am pleased these grants are coming home to Franklin and Johnson Counties. Without strong infrastructure, we cannot expect our economy to grow,” Westerman said. “This investment at home will help these communities add jobs and opportunity.” The airports receiving funding are as follows: Dumas: Billy Free Municipal Airport will receive $216,689 to rehabilitate runway lighting and taxiway lighting. Clarksville: Clarksville Municipal will receive $432,990 to rehabilitate taxiway. Manila: Manila Municipal will receive $308,000 to rehabilitate apron and rehabilitate taxiway. Marianna: Marianna/Lee County – Steve Edwards Field will receive $286,660 to install miscellaneous NAVAIDS and to rehabilitate apron. Ozark: Ozark-Franklin County airport will receive $580,000 to improve Airport Drainage. ###
06.18.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs)issued the following statement following the mass shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, which left nine people dead: “My thoughts and prayers are with the families of those lost in last night’s shooting in Charleston. These fellow American citizens were gathering on a Wednesday night to pray and fellowship, like so many of us do, when their lives were taken in a senseless act. I condemn this act of mass murder and pray that the suspect is quickly found and made to face the consequences of his actions. I ask all Arkansans to remember their fellow Americans in South Carolina in prayer.” ###
06.17.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – This morning, Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-AR) and Congresswoman Annie Kuster (D-NH) sent a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requesting increased regulatory clarity for biomass producers across the country. Nineteen Members of Congress from both parties joined Westerman and Kuster in signing the letter. By using organic material that would otherwise be landfilled or left to decay to generate electricity, biomass is an environmentally sound and cost-effective renewable energy source. Additionally, biomass producers are creating jobs for rural communities across the country, and these efforts should be supported. It is unclear how the EPA intends to treat biomass power moving forward, and Kuster and Westerman urged the EPA to quickly clarify to what extent biomass facilities will be subject to newly proposed carbon emission rules, and whether a partial or full-exemption would be considered. This regulatory information will provide biomass producers with the certainty they need to plan for future production. “Biomass fuel is important to a growing renewable energy industry in the United States and abroad. We ask that the Environmental Protection Agency create a fair, clear set of regulations sooner rather than later so this industry can have certainty in their processes as they grow. A new industry that sequesters carbon, is environmentally sound, and is creating jobs deserves to be treated fairly and to know the rules upfront. That is what we are requesting from the EPA today,” said Congressman Bruce Westerman. “Biomass companies are doing an incredible job of turning unused material into an energy source, and they are creating jobs for workers across the country and in New Hampshire,” said Congresswoman Annie Kuster. “Biomass producers need to know upfront how the EPA’s proposed carbon emission rules will affect them, so these regulations do not come as a surprise and hinder their ability to expand, grow, and continue to hire American workers. I urge EPA to swiftly make it known how these rules will be applied to the biomass industry, and to consider partial- or full-exemption from these rules for sustainable biomass producers.” The full text of the letter can be found below: June 17, 2015 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy: We write today to express our support for the role that biomass power plays in our Nation’s energy supply, and to request that EPA take action to remove regulatory ambiguities in the treatment of utility-scale biomass power as a renewable resource. Biomass is a renewable form of energy that provides jobs for our rural communities, promotes healthy forests, and offers an environmental solution for organic material that would otherwise be landfilled, left to decay in the forest or on farm fields, or simply burned. Converting these low-value materials to electricity is a win for the environment and our economy. The primary source of biomass feedstock for electricity comes from “low-value” wood and agricultural residues. While biomass varies by region, all biomass fuels for electricity share a common trait, namely, a material that has no higher value use in the marketplace. Biomass feedstocks for electricity are not generally “grown” or “harvested” for energy, but are a by-product of non-energy uses. Whether from forests (tops, limbs, thinnings), farms (rice hulls, bagasse, orchard prunings) or the urban environment (pallets, railroad ties and other forms of “waste wood”), biomass power’s use of these materials should be encouraged for producing electricity. While EPA has been generally supportive of biomass power in recent documents, how the agency intends to treat biomass power continues to be ambiguous at best. We request that EPA move quickly to clarify the extent to which these facilities will be covered by proposed carbon emission rules. Providing this regulatory certainty, including through full or partial exemption from these rules, could promote a diverse energy portfolio and contribute to healthy forests, farms, and rural communities. Thank you for your timely consideration of our request. We look forward to your response and to continuing to work with you in service of the American people. Sincerely, Bruce Westerman Ann McLane Kuster Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
06.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement upon passage of H.Res. 233, which calls for the immediate release of three Americans currently being detained by the Islamic Republic of Iran: “My vote today was a vote to bring Americans home from illegal detention in Iran. It was a vote for democracy. It was a vote for freedom. The three Americans being held by the Iranian regime have been held against their will on trumped up charges, and it is time for them to come home. It is my hope that this vote brings this situation closer to an acceptable resolution.” The three Americans currently being detained by the Islamic Republic of Iran include Saeed Abedini of Boise, Idaho; Amir Hekmati of Flint, Michigan; and Jason Rezaian of Marin, California. Abedini is a pastor, Hekmati a Marine veteran, and Rezaian is The Washington Post’s Tehran bureau reporter. ###
06.11.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Thursday (June 11), Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) and Congressman Mike Conaway (R-Texas) introduced the Accountable Recovery Act. This legislation requires that recovery plans for species conservation are made publically available once a species is listed as threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). “The purpose of the Endangered Species Act is to recover species, but all too often species are listed with no real plans for recovery,” Conaway said. “This legislation will ensure that not only are comprehensive species recovery plans with objective criteria in place, but they are made publically available so that the best available science will prevail. I’m looking forward to working with my colleague Rep. Westerman to get this important legislation passed into law.” “Transparency should be an important part of how we govern,” Westerman said. “But far too often, decisions are made with little to no transparency and citizens are left in the dark. This legislation shines a light on what has been until now a secretive process and will allow the best science to guide decisions on species recovery instead of special interests and bureaucrats in Washington guiding those decisions. I applaud Congressman Conaway for his leadership on this bill and I look forward to its consideration in this Congress." ###
06.11.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, the Committee on Natural Resources approved six bills during a Full Committee markup on H.R. 387, H.R. 521, H.R. 1289, H.R. 1992, H.R. 2295, H.R. 2358, and H.R. 2647. On the passage of H.R. 2647, the “Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015,” introduced byReps. Bruce Westerman (R-AR), Glenn Thompson (R-PA), Ryan Zinke, and Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Rep. Westerman commented: “I was pleased to see the Resilient Federal Forests Act quickly move through committee markup this week. This bill is simple. It protects our national forests through proper management practices. It creates healthier forests, cleaner water, cleaner air, and protects the lives and property of Americans living in or near our national forests. I look forward to the legislation coming to the House floor. I want to thank my Republican and Democratic colleagues for their work on this bill, as well as Chairman Bishop for his leadership in moving this bill through the Committee on Natural Resources,” Rep. Westerman said. For more information on votes on amendments, please visit the House Committee on Natural Resources website. ###
06.10.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) released the following statement following his vote to approve a repeal of Country of Origin Labeling: “Today, I joined my colleagues in the House to vote for legislation that would be a benefit to livestock producers in the Fourth District,” Westerman said. “The bill would repeal current Country of Origin Labeling requirements under U.S. law. It is good for the livestock industry, and keeps American agriculture on a level playing field with Canada and Mexico. This legislation will keep prices down at the grocery store, puts America in compliance with international trade agreements, and allows Arkansas agriculture and livestock to fairly compete with our North American neighbors.” Under current legislation, Country of Origin Labeling violates World Trade Organization obligations, with the organization ruling that labeling discriminates against imported livestock. Requiring segregation of animals by country of origin results in higher food costs. According to the Agricultural Marketing Service, enforcement of Country of Origin provisions by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) reportedly cost the livestock and meat industry approximately $2.4 billion upon implementation of its first set of regulations in 2009. Companies may voluntarily continue country of origin labeling on livestock, pork, and poultry raised in the United States. The repeal of mandatory country of origin labeling simply removes the government mandate. ###
06.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Tom Cotton (R-AR) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) — along with Congressmen Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03) and Bruce Westerman (AR-04) — today requested that the Department of Energy (DOE) extend the comment period for the need and feasibility review of the Plains& Eastern Clean Line Transmission Project. In a letter to Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz, the members request a minimum of 60 additional days for comments citing inadequate communication to let stakeholders know they can submit their input on this project. “The Department is engaged in a new process that justifies a deliberative and thorough review, with greater transparency and public participation,” the members wrote. “The 45-day comment period has proven inadequate.” The current comment period is scheduled to end on June 12. In January, members urged Secretary Moniz to extend the comment period for the environmental review of the project for additional input from stakeholders. The comment period was extended for one month. The following is the full text of the letter: Dear Secretary Moniz: We strongly urge you to extend the comment period regarding the Department of Energy’s Non-NEPA Review for the Plains& Eastern Clean Line Transmission Project by at least 60 days so that our constituents will have an adequate opportunity to share their views and/or concerns. The current comment period is scheduled to end on June 12, and the opportunity to participate has not been effectively communicated to many impacted stakeholders. Furthermore, the Department has invited public comments on highly complicated issues, such as the project’s technical and financial feasibility and whether the project is in the public interest. The 45-day comment period has proven inadequate. Also, the Department is engaged in a new process that justifies a deliberative and thorough review, with greater transparency and public participation. Although Section 1222 was enacted a decade ago, the Department has not yet used this authority to design, develop, construct or operate transmission facilities, nor has the Department participated with other entities in doing so. Also, according to the Department, “the purpose of the program is to reduce electric transmission congestion and/or increase electric transmission capacity.” However, the proposed route for the pending application is located in neither a Federal Power Act section 216(a) a designated congestion area nor a national interest electric transmission corridor. Due to these concerns, we strongly believe that the Department has a responsibility to be tremendously thorough, transparent, and deliberative. Again, we strongly urge you to provide at least a 60-day extension of the comment period on the non-NEPA review for the Plains& Eastern Clean Line Transmission Project, and we ask that you intensify your efforts to keep our offices fully informed as the Department’s review of this project continues. We look forward to your response, and please let us know any time we can be helpful. Written comments should be addressed as follows: U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability (OE-20), 1222 Program, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585. Electronic comments can be emailed to plainsandeastern@hq.doe.gov. The Department will make comments available as they are received. Additional information from the Department is available at https://energy.gov/oe/downloads/plains-eastern-clean-line-transmission-line-part-2-application. ###
06.04.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) introduced the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015 on Thursday (June 4). The bill, H.R. 2647, would provide protection to the national forest system by implementing proactive management standards intended to lessen the threat of wildfires and other risks. “For far too long, our nation’s forests have been fighting a battle for survival. The conflict is not with logging but with the effects of reactive versus proactive management which has resulted in costly confrontations with wildfire, disease, and insects,” Westerman said. “This bill would utilize tools already available to the U.S. Forest Service and provide protection to America’s forests by reducing the risks of wildfires through proper management techniques.” The bi-partisan bill, co-sponsored by Reps. Ryan Zinke (R-Montana), Glenn Thompson (R-Pennsylvania), and Ann Kirkpatrick (D-Arizona) received praise from House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop, who also noted Subcommittee on Federal Lands Chairman Tom McClintock’s work on the legislation. “I commend Reps. Westerman, Zinke and McClintock for their leadership in introducing the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015, and look forward to moving this bill forward,” Bishop said. ###
06.03.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton – along with Congressmen Rick Crawford (AR-1), French Hill (AR-2), Steve Womack (AR-3), and Bruce Westerman (AR-4) – today announced that 11 Arkansas airports have been awarded more than $6.5 million from the Department of Transportation to support facility upgrades and expansions. “Transportation infrastructure is vital for local commerce and private sector job growth,” Boozman said. “Arkansas will benefit from these airport improvements because they will help accommodate future development throughout the state.” "Local airports are a critical part of Arkansas’s infrastructure system, and I applaud the Department of Transportation’s selection of these 11 deserving Arkansas airports,” Cotton said. "Modern airport infrastructure paves the way for regional growth by allowing local businesses and tourism to flourish,” Crawford said. “Our local communities will be well served by these improvements that set the stage for job growth and increase connectivity throughout our state." "Today’s announcement awarding grants for infrastructure improvements at the airports in White and Saline counties will be a boost towards our state’s long-term economic goals. Upgrading these facilities will help us recruit new industry to central Arkansas, while enhancing air safety for those traveling in and out of our state," Hill said. “In the state of Arkansas, rural communities matter, and I am pleased to announce these Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grants which ensure our rural communities – and especially Russellville, which is uniquely situated to become one of Arkansas’s most dynamic cities – can remain accessible through safe and modernized municipal airports and continue to grow,” Womack said. “I am pleased these grants are coming home to Arkansas. Without strong infrastructure, we cannot expect our economy to grow,” Westerman said. “This investment at home will help these communities add jobs and opportunity.” The airports receiving funding are as follows: Ash Flat: Sharp County Regional Airport will receive $440,325 to rehabilitate the airport apron and runway. Benton: Saline County Regional Airport will receive $528,183 to expand the airport apron. Clarendon: Clarendon Municipal Airport will receive $206,764 to extend taxiway. Clinton: Clinton Municipal Airport will receive $194,776 to install taxiway lighting. Corning: Corning Municipal Airport will receive $244,332 to rehabilitate the airport apron. De Witt: De Witt Municipal Airport will receive $335,250 to expand and rehabilitate the airport apron. Newport: Newport Municipal Airport will receive $557,072 to install airfield guidance signs, miscellaneous NAVAIDS and to rehabilitate the runway. Russellville: Russellville Regional Airport will receive $124,184 to acquire land for approaches. Searcy: Searcy Municipal Airport will receive $150,00 to rehabilitate the airport runway. Texarkana: Texarkana Regional-Webb Field will receive $3,403,151 to rehabilitate the airport runway. Waldron: Waldron Municipal Airport will receive $318,812 to rehabilitate the airport runway. ###
05.22.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) on Thursday (May 21) introduced the Prioritizing American Roads and Jobs Act. The bill would add up to $15 billion per year to the Federal Highway Trust Fund while also paying down a portion of national debt each year. To produce funding necessary to plug the hole in the Federal Highway Trust Fund, the bill would change Medicaid expansion match rates established under Obamacare and paid by the federal government from a current rate of 100 percent to traditional Medicaid match rates. In Arkansas, the traditional Medicaid federal match rate is 70 percent while the state picks up the remaining 30 percent. Nationally, the average is a 57 percent federal match rate and 43 percent picked up by states. Medicaid expansion currently paid at 100 percent for able-bodied, working age adults has been adopted by 29 states and the District of Columbia, while all 50 states take part in traditional Medicaid at the average 57 percent federal match rate to benefit disabled, elderly, and others in need of medical coverage. “Obamacare is complicated, but undoing an egregious flaw in the Medicaid expansion component of the law should not be,” Westerman said Friday. “The bill I introduced Thursday, the Prioritizing American Roads and Jobs Act of 2015, would free up more than $15 billion per year in mandatory spending that is going only to the three out of five states that expanded Medicaid. And estimates show this change could save $300 billion over 10 years. Roughly one-half could be used to build and fix roads in all 50 states while the rest could be used to reduce our national budget deficit.” An editorial written by Congressman Westerman may be accessed here. ###
05.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement Friday (May 15) following passage of the NDAA, the National Defense Authorization Act of 2015: “My vote today for the National Defense Authorization Act was a vote to protect America from those who may seek to harm this great nation. It was also a vote in support of our veterans, streamlining medical treatment from their time in service to our nation to their life outside of the military. For far too long, veterans have had to pay out of pocket for prescriptions subscribed during their time in the military since the V.A. did not always cover the same medications. Passage of this bill eliminates the discrepancies in care for those in the military and veterans of the service while continuing to secure the nation.” ###
05.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement mourning the loss of an auxiliary Johnson County Sheriff's Deputy, who was killed in the line of duty overnight after responding to a robbery: “It was with great sadness that I learned about the shooting death overnight of a Johnson County auxiliary sheriff’s deputy. It is at these moments that we reflect on the risks inherent to law enforcement officers, who put their life on the line daily in order to protect our communities. I urge all Arkansans to remember this deputy’s family, friends, and colleagues in prayer. We thank him for his service to his community and we pray that he rests in peace.” The deputy's name has not yet been released. KFSM-TV in Fort Smith reports that a suspect is in custody. ###
05.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act of 2015: “My vote to outlaw pain capable abortion is about one simple thing – protecting life. Babies at 20 weeks are viable outside the womb and under zero circumstances should the United States have a legal mechanism to take the life of these children. My constituents should know that as long as I have a voice, I will stand to protect life.” ###
05.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton along with Congressman Bruce Westerman today announced that Fauxsee Innovations—a Magnolia, Arkansas-based small business—has been awarded a $100,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) for its efforts to facilitate safe and efficient rural transportation for the blind. Fauxsee Innovations is an assistive device company that has committed its time and resources to bringing technology to the people with sight impairment. The grant comes from USDA’s Small Business Innovation Research Program, which helps small businesses conduct high quality research related to important scientific problems and opportunities in agriculture in rural development. “As an optometrist by trade, I understand the need to meet the challenges facing the visually impaired. Those living in rural areas often face greater hurdles. The work done in Magnolia by Fauxsee Innovations will help support their needs and improve the lives of visually impaired Americans,” Boozman said. “This grant is great news for Arkansas. It will rightly help make our transportation infrastructure more accessible to all Arkansans and while fostering growth among our small businesses,” Cotton said. “I am proud to see a local business researching and innovating to improve life for individuals with visual impairment. Their work is inspiring and it is my hope that this funding helps Fauxsee Innovations continue to innovate and improve the lives of not just visually impaired Arkansans, but visually impaired individuals across the country,” Westerman said. ###
05.12.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement Monday (May 12) after voting for H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015: “Passage of this legislation is a major check on the EPA and Corps of Engineers’ attempt to regulate almost all waters of the United States (WOTUS), whether or not they impact the quality of a navigable waterway. These agencies received thousands of comments in opposition to their water grab, but chose to ignore them. It is my hope that the Senate follows our lead in the House, and forces the Administration to withdraw the existing WOTUS proposed rule, which will have a negative impact on farmers, ranchers, and other job creators. I look forward to working with my colleagues to find a creative solution that permanently reins in these agencies’ attempts to regulate beyond their legal authority.” The bill was introduced in response to a proposal by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers which would have significantly broadened the federal government's power to regulate waters and adjacent lands. ###
05.11.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement regarding deaths and damage from storms that impacted the Fourth District city of Nashville on Sunday evening (May 10): “I extend my condolences to the families of those killed in last night’s storms in Nashville. The storms not only produced severe wind damage and possibly a tornado in Nashville, but extensive flooding has washed out roads and damaged property across the Fourth District. I have been in contact with local, county, and state officials and my staff stands ready to assist in any way possible.” Additional flooding was reported in cities across the district, including Ozark, where the road to Ozark High School was washed out Sunday afternoon. ###
05.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement commemorating Thursday’s National Day of Prayer designation. “On this National Day of Prayer, it is important to remember the principles upon which our nation was founded. Marking 1982’s National Day of Prayer, President Ronald Reagan said we must ‘seek help from God, our Father and Preserver.’ His words are just as true now as they were 33 years ago. We are a Christian nation and must continue to seek God’s will for America to continue being that city on a hill that the world looks to in moments of peace and moments of strife. On this day, I recall 2 Chronicles 7:14, which says, ‘if my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and I will forgive their sin and will heal their land.’” The National Day of Prayer was established by Congress in 1952 and is observed annually. Beginning in 1988, the law establishing the National Day of Prayer was amended so the observance would be held annually on the first Thursday of May. ###
05.04.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) on Monday (May 4) announced a series of mobile offices to take place Wednesday, May 13 (all times central). Mobile offices scheduled the following day (May 14) will complete the final of 33 mobile office stops in each of the district’s counties since January. The Fourth District's mobile offices assist constituents who are having problems with Veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security and other services involving the federal government. The May 13 mobile offices are the third series of Westerman mobile offices scheduled for next month. A series of mobile offices are taking place today (May 4) in five south Arkansas counties, as well as May 14 in several south central Arkansas counties (a full list of today’s mobile offices may be found here; a list of May 14 mobile offices may be found here). The previously-scheduled May 14 mobile office in Sheridan, Ark., will be the final stop in Congressman Westerman’s efforts to bring a mobile office to all 33 counties in the Fouth District since taking office. “Mobile offices are important for constituents who may be in need of assistance from the federal government, but cannot drive to one of my physical offices across the state,” Westerman said. “I am very proud of my Fourth District staff for hosting these events in each of the district’s counties and meeting with constituents where they live. This does not stop our constituent services, but instead is the start of our constituent outreach as we continue meeting the good people of the Fourth District, working hard to represent their needs in Washington.” Anyone needing help may also contact Rep. Westerman's Hot Springs Office weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. by calling (501) 609-9796 or by visiting westerman.house.gov. District offices are located in El Dorado at 101 North Washington Street, Ozark at 211 West Commercial Street and Pine Bluff at 100 East 8th Avenue, Room 2521. The Hot Springs office is located at 101 Reserve Street, Suite 200. The following are a complete list of May 13 mobile office locations and times: Yell County Courthouse 101 E 5th St. Danville, AR 72833 10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Mulberry Senior Center 406 Hwy 64 W Mulberry, AR 72947 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. ###
04.30.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs), a member of the House Committee on the Budget, issued the following statement upon passage of the joint budget resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives: "With the passage tonight of the joint budget resolution in the House, Congress has taken an important first step to fiscal sanity. This is a first step because our work is not done. Just as it has taken America a long time to get $18 trillion in debt, it will take us a long time to get out of that hole. This budget will balance in the next decade while producing $5.1 trillion in savings. At the same time, it includes workforce requirements for entitlement programs that will put able-bodied, working age adults back to work so the federal government will no longer give a hand out, but a hand up to Americans who are in temporary need of help. I commend Chairman Price and the members of the conference committee from the House and Senate on this great accomplishment." ###
04.29.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) announced Tuesday a series of mobile offices on Thursday, May 14 (all times central). The Fourth District's mobile offices assist constituents who are having problems with Veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security and other services involving the federal government. Anyone needing help may also contact Rep. Westerman's Hot Springs Office weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. by calling (501) 609-9796 or by visiting westerman.house.gov. District offices are located in El Dorado at 101 North Washington Street, Ozark at 211 West Commercial Street and Pine Bluff at 100 East 8th Avenue, Room 2521. The Hot Springs office is located at 101 Reserve Street, Suite 200. The May 14 mobile offices are the second series of Westerman mobile offices scheduled for next month. A series of mobile offices are scheduled for May 4 in five south Arkansas counties. A full list of those mobile office locations and times may be found here. The following are a complete list of May 14 mobile office locations and times: Hot Spring County Courthouse 210 Locust Street Malvern, AR 72104 8 a.m. – 9 a.m. Dallas County Courthouse 206 West 3rd Street Fordyce, AR 71742 11:30 a.m. – 12:30 a.m. Cleveland County Courthouse 20 Magnolia Street Rison, AR 71665 1 p.m. – 2 p.m. Grant County Courthouse 101 West Center Street Sheridan, AR 72150 3 p.m. – 4 p.m. ###
04.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, April 28, 2015, Representatives Rick Crawford (R-AR-1), French Hill (R-AR-2), Steve Womack (R-AR-3), and Bruce Westerman (R-AR-4) paid tribute to former U.S. Representative John Paul Hammerschmidt (R-AR-3; 1967-1993) and observed a moment of silence in his honor on the House Floor. Hammerschmidt passed away on April 1, 2015, at the age of 92. The full video may be found here. Westerman's floor speech may be found here. ###
04.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement following passage of the Protecting Cyber Networks Act and the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act on Thursday, April 23: “This week, I voted for the bi-partisan Protecting Cyber Networks and the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Acts. These acts are common sense bills that protect Americans from the risks of cyber attacks and enhance protection of personal information. This set of bills allows private industry to join together to share information so they can learn from past attacks and enhance protections in the future. These bi-partisan bills show that Congress can work together for the good of all Americans and that is what I am doing for the Fourth District – working with my colleagues here in Washington on bi-partisan legislation to protect you.” ###
04.21.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) announced Tuesday that his office will host a series of mobile offices at the following locations on Monday, May 4 (all times central). The Fourth District's mobile offices will assist constituents who are having problems with Veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security and other services involving the federal government. Anyone needing help can also contact Rep. Westerman's Hot Springs Office weekdays from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. by calling (501) 609-9796 or by visiting https://westerman.house.gov. Westerman also has offices located in El Dorado at 101 N. Washington St., Ozark at 211 West Commercial Street and Pine Bluff at 100 East 8th Avenue, Room 2521. The Hot Springs office is located at 101 Reserve Street, Suite 200. Ouachita County Courthouse 145 Jefferson Street Southwest Camden, AR 71701 8:00 a.m. – 9:00 a.m. Calhoun County Courthouse 309 West Main St. Hampton, AR 71744 9:45 a.m. – 10:45 a.m. Bradley County Courthouse 101 East Cedar Street Warren, AR 71671 11:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Ashley County Courthouse 205 East Jefferson Street Hamburg, AR 71646 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Drew County Courthouse 210 South Main Street Monticello, AR 71655 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. ###
04.19.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LITTLE ROCK -- U.S. Reps. Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) and French Hill (R-Little Rock) appeared together Sunday, April 19, on Capitol View, a public affairs show that airs on NBC television stations across Arkansas. Topics discussed during the joint interview included the representatives' first 100 days in the 114th Congress, balancing the budget, the "Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015," as well as constituent services. Part one and part two of their interview may be viewed on Congressman Westerman's YouTube channel. Part One: Part Two: ###
04.16.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement following his vote for the "Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015." “My vote Thursday for the ‘Death Tax Repeal Act’ was about protecting families at home in the Fourth District. These families often own timber land, family farms, or other small businesses. And without an elimination of the estate tax, many of these families are at risk of losing up to 40 percent of their inherited business. Many families have turned to clearing trees, selling parts of their land, or liquidating assets to pay the tax, resulting in poor land management and loss of hard earned assets essential to continuing these thriving small businesses. It is wrong to charge families an estate tax simply because a parent passed a business onto an heir after a generation of hard work. That is why I voted Thursday for the ‘Death Tax Repeal Act’ and why I will continue to seek tax relief for the hardworking families of the Fourth District.” ###
04.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON ––Arkansas Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Fourth District Congressman Bruce Westerman, today announced a $3.2 million grant for Families and Children Together, Inc. to provide comprehensive early childhood and preschool services to children and families in Calhoun, Columbia, Dallas, Ouachita and Union Counties. “This investment in education will provide South Arkansas children with the tools they need to succeed in the classroom. Fostering education at an early age is important to promoting an interest in lifelong learning and helping these young minds prepare for the future,” Boozman said. “Early education plays a pivotal role in a child’s overall literacy development and readiness for school. This grant will help ensure success for South Arkansas children,” Cotton said. “A solid education is essential to success in an increasingly competitive job market. Congratulations to the children of Calhoun, Columbia, Dallas, Ouachita, and Union Counties," Westerman said. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ###
04.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) will host a U.S. Service Academy Information Night Tuesday, April 14, at Ozark High School. A previous Service Academy Night was canceled due to inclement weather. More information about the U.S. Service Academies, including information on obtaining a nomination from Congressman Westerman, may be found under the "Services" tab at westerman.house.gov. What: U.S. Service Academy Information NightWhen: Tuesday, April 14, 2015 from 6 p.m. to 8p.m.Where: Ozark High School Library, 1631 Hillbilly Drive Ozark, AR 72949Why: Inform students and parents of the opportunity to attend a US Service Academy and about the process to obtain a congressional nomination. ###
04.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE STAMPS, Ark. – Congressman Bruce Westerman, R-Hot Springs, issued the following statement after participating in a ceremony at Lafayette County High School on Wednesday (April 8) commemorating the United States Postal Service’s release of a Forever Stamp featuring the late poet Maya Angelou. “While her time in Stamps, Arkansas as a child was brief, Maya Angelou became an Arkansas treasure forever connected to the Natural State. She was the preeminent example of an individual who overcame adversity and accomplished so much in her life with nothing more than her drive to succeed. Even though she is no longer with us, it is my hope that this stamp will encourage Arkansans and Americans from all walks to not remember Maya Angelou and her vast volume of work, but also be inspired to follow in her remarkable footsteps.” Wednesday's event in Stamps followed a dedication ceremony Tuesday (April 7) in Washington. The Maya Angelou Forever Stamp is on sale at U.S. Post Offices across the country. ###
04.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-4) and Congressman French Hill (AR-2) will hold a joint radio interview at 2:00 PM CT, on Wednesday, April 8, 2015, with Tom Nichols on KVRE to discuss their first 100 days in Congress and what else they hope to accomplish during the remainder of their first terms. Prior to the April recess, the House passed legislation that paves the way for the first real entitlement reform in nearly two decades. Westerman and Hill will talk about this bill, as well as the many other initiatives Congress is leading to balance the budget, stop Executive overreach, and promote accountability and transparency in government. The following event will be broadcast on KVRE: WHO: Congressman Bruce Westerman and Congressman French HillWHAT: Radio InterviewWHEN: 2:00 PM CT, Wednesday, April 8, 2015WHERE: KVRE 92.9 FM Hot Springs Village, AR ###
04.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) announced Thursday (April 2) a series of mobile offices at the following locations on Tuesday, April 7 (all times central). The Fourth District's mobile offices will assist constituents who are having problems with Veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security and other services involving the federal government. Anyone needing help can also contact Rep. Westerman's Hot Springs Office weekdays from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. by calling (501) 609-9796 or by visiting https://westerman.house.gov. Westerman also has offices located in El Dorado at 101 N. Washington St. and Pine Bluff at 100 East 8th Avenue, Room 2521. The Hot Springs office is located at 101 Reserve Street, Suite 200.Clark County Courthouse401 Clay StreetArkadelphia, AR 719238:30 a.m. – 9:30 a.m. Nevada County Courthouse 215 E. 2nd Street Prescott, AR 71857 10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Miller County Courthouse 400 Laurel Street Texarkana, AR 71854 12:15 p.m. – 1:15 p.m. Lafayette County Courthouse #1 Courthouse Square Lewisville, AR 71845 2:15 p.m. – 3:15 p.m. Columbia County Courthouse #1 Court Square Magnolia, AR 71753 4:00 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. ###
04.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama's announcement of a deal with Iran over its nuclear program: “This ‘deal’ is the furthest thing from a deal. What the president has done is appease a nation that is bent on destruction of one of America’s closest allies. Prime Minister Netanyahu during his address to Congress urged the United States to not do this deal because no deal is better than a bad deal. He was right. Any deal that allows Iran to continue enrichment activities is not a deal our country can afford to make. I urge President Obama to do what is right for America and what is right for our closest ally – renegotiate a better deal or walk away.” ###
04.01.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement regarding the death of former Congressman John Paul Hammerschmidt on Wednesday, April 1: “I am saddened to hear of Congressman Hammerschmidt’s passing. His long tenure in the United States Congress paved the way for those of us in office today, showing how to not only serve our constituents but also how to lead even when he was the sole Republican in the Arkansas delegation. Hammerschmidt’s conservative values continue to be a guide to those of us who have followed in his footsteps and I will be forever in his gratitude for being a long-time champion of conservative values and of Arkansas. My thoughts are with his family and many friends at this difficult time.” ###
03.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – The office of Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) will be accepting submissions from Fourth District high school students for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition through Monday, April 27. The Congressional Art Competition, which began in 1982, enables high school students to showcase their artistic ability in the Cannon Tunnel that connects the House office-building complex to the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. Each year, more than three million people view this gallery as they walk through the Cannon Tunnel. Entries to the Congressional Art Competition should be submitted no later than Monday, April 27, to Westerman’s Fourth District office at 101 Reserve St. Ste. 200, Hot Springs, AR 71901. Entries may be submitted in person during regular business hours (8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday) or by mail. Winners will be announced during a reception at the Hot Springs Convention Center on Tuesday, May 5, from 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. The convention center is located at 134 Convention Boulevard in Hot Springs. Winners will receive two round-trip tickets to Washington, D.C., where they will attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony and may be eligible for a scholarship to one of the leading colleges in art and design in the United States. For more information, including a downloadable rules and release form, visit the “Art Competition” section under the “Services” tab on our website at westerman.house.gov or contact Jordan Garcia at (501) 609-9796 or jordan.garcia@mail.house.gov. ###
03.26.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) voted Thursday to repeal the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR), saving taxpayers nearly $70 billion and ensuring that doctors continue providing coverage to Medicare recipients. “The repeal of the SGR is essential to making Medicare a sustainable program for the long run,” Westerman said. “The repeal keeps the Congress from continuing its long-standing tradition of passing temporary fixes for this program and instead puts forward a permanent solution that benefits patients and doctors, not to mention the American taxpayer. “Repealing the SGR will not only help in recruiting of primary care and specialty physicians across the Fourth District, Arkansas, and the United States, but it will also help with physician retention. Recruiting additional doctors and keeping those doctors in practice is essential to give senior citizens access to care. “Repeal of the SGR is also essential to easing some of the damage done to Medicare by Obamacare. This will be the first positive reform to mandatory spending requirements in decades but more changes need to happen. We accomplish this by a reduction in mandatory spending and making programs like Medicare solvent for the long-term. “It is my hope that the Senate will act swiftly to pass the SGR repeal before March 31.” Should the Senate not pass the SGR repeal by Tuesday (March 31), reimbursements to doctors providing treatment to Medicare patients could drop by 21 percent. The bill also extends the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) through 2017 while at the same time securing an additional two years of payments under the Secure Rural Schools Program. Westerman also commented Thursday on his service on the House Budget Committee the passage of the committee’s budget in the House, noting that the bill produces $5.5 trillion in savings over the next ten years. “I am pleased to have represented the 4th District and Arkansas on the House Budget Committee. This budget balances in nine years, produces trillions in savings, increases defense spending, and enacts workforce requirements for able-bodied, working age adults receiving government assistance,” Westerman noted. “By approving this budget, the House has sent a clear message that the days of reckless spending in Washington are numbered. It is my hope that the Senate can quickly pass a budget and both chambers can swiftly move through reconciliation.” ###
03.26.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON ––Arkansas Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Fourth District Congressman Bruce Westerman, today announced three United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) grants that will help Franklin and Yell counties purchase emergency response equipment. Franklin County will receive $50,000 to go toward the purchase of a new ambulance to replace the ten-year old model currently in use. The city of Ola in Yell County will receive $50,000 to help fund the purchase of a new pumper truck to replace the 35 year old truck now in use. In addition, the City of Belleville, also in Yell County, will receive $4,000 to go toward the purchase of lockers for firefighters to store equipment. “Our first responders must have the necessary tools to safely react to emergency situations. These funds will help keep families safe and protect the communities in Franklin and Yell counties,” Boozman said. “Arkansas’s first responders are some of the best in the country. They do important work and their contribution to our state is invaluable. I applaud the USDA’s recognition of their dedication and their decision to award these grants to Franklin and Yell counties,” Cotton said. “First responders must have the tools necessary to save lives and property. I’m pleased to see these two counties in the Fourth District receive grants to keep their citizens safe,” Westerman said. ###
03.19.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement following passage of the House Budget Committee’s proposed budget Thursday morning (March 19): “I am pleased that a balanced budget will come to the House floor for a vote next week. This budget does what the president’s proposed budget never could – it balances. It not only balances, but it produces more than $5 trillion in savings over the next 10 years and creates workforce requirements to provide those in need a hand up instead of a hand out. I applaud the hard work of Chairman Price and my colleagues on the Budget Committee and look forward to casting my vote for the budget next week.” ###
03.18.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1030, the Secret Science Reform Act of 2015 with a bipartisan vote of 241-175. The EPA has been proposing, finalizing, and implementing far reaching and economically harmful regulations without releasing the science on which these regulations are based. Without transparency, independent scientists cannot review and verify the science nor can the affected public be certain that that the extra red tape and bureaucracy is actually necessary. Today’s bill prohibits the EPA from proposing or implementing regulations without first publishing the science on which they are based for independent review.Congressional Western Caucus Chairman Cynthia Lummis (WY-At Large) with bill sponsor and Science, Space and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (TX-21), and bill cosponsors and Science Committee members Rep. Randy Neugebauer (TX-19) and Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-04) released the following statements in response to the passage of the bill:“The American people and independent researchers have a right to see the science on which federal policy decisions are based, especially since it is the American taxpayer footing the bill for the science or bearing the burden of the mandates,” said Chairman Lummis. “This is particularly critical throughout the West where decisions based on this ‘secret science’ hurt the livelihoods of thousands of American families. This secrecy erodes the quality of the decisions and serves only to aggravate the growing distrust the public justly has for the EPA. It’s time the agency used only publicly available science that can be tested and verified instead of expecting the rest of the country to just smile, nod, and take the veracity of the EPA’s regulations on faith.”“Many Americans are unaware that some of the EPA’s most expensive and burdensome regulations, such as its proposed ozone rules, are based on data that not even the EPA has seen,” said Chairman Smith. “Costly environmental regulations should only be based upon data that is available to independent scientists and the public and that can be verified. It’s time to restore faith in our government and return the power to the people. This bill ensures that the decisions that affect every American are based on independently-verified, unbiased scientific research, instead of on secret data that is hidden behind closed doors.”“Under the Obama Administration, the EPA has used publicly unavailable data to justify billions of dollars in new regulations that unfairly burden hardworking West Texas farmers, ranchers, and small business owners,” said Rep. Neugebauer. “Today, the House acted and passed the Secret Science Reform Act of 2015, which I cosponsored, to bring the EPA’s regulatory process into the light of day and make the EPA more accountable to the American people.”“The passage of the Secret Science bill this week ensures that businesses in my home state of Arkansas and across the country are able to see the science behind the often-times burdensome regulations placed on private industry by the Environmental Protection Agency,” said Rep. Westerman. “Transparency in government is needed, especially when regulation based on secrets are coming from the Obama administration, resulting in skyrocketing costs to businesses which means less jobs.”Earlier this week the House also passed a bill to increase public participation in the EPA’s Science Advisory Board, make advisor selection more transparent, and ensure the board remains focused on science and not politics. Currently 60 percent of the members of EPA’s standing scientific advisory panels directly received National Center for Environmental Research grants from the agency since 2000. ###
03.17.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) joined his colleagues on the House Committee on Budget Tuesday morning (March 17) to present a balanced budget that provides $5.5 trillion in savings over 10 years. “The budget crafted by this committee does something the president’s proposed budget never could do – it balances,” Westerman said. “This budget not only balances, but it produces more than $5 trillion in savings over 10 years, creates a surplus by 2024, repeals Obamacare and creates a workforce requirement for recipients of federal income assistance programs. By taking my proposed workforce requirement legislation – H.R. 886 – and expanding it to all able-bodied, working age federal income assistance program recipients, taxpayers will save $600 billion over 10 years.” The budget proposal presented by the Republican-led House Budget Committee also proposes spending $3 trillion on Medicaid over the next 10 years, but reshaping the program using State Flexibility Funds so individual states can craft their own programs using a combination of state and federal dollars and achieve savings without gutting Medicare, as the proposed Obama budget would do. The House Budget will create a sustainable, long-lasting program for seniors, the disabled and blind individuals, as well as children in need of assistance.Click here to read more on the proposed budget from Chairman Tom Price of the House Committee on Budget (.pdf). ###
03.16.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) joined his colleagues on the House Committee on the Budget Monday (March 16) in a YouTube video previewing the committee’s proposed budget, set for release Tuesday morning (March 17). Westerman’s remarks in the video highlight returning power to the states. “Washington doesn’t have all the answers, and Congress should be humble enough to admit that,” Westerman said. “Our budget will respect the principle of federalism by returning authority to state and local leaders so they have the flexibility to better serve their unique communities. This will ensure more choices and responsiveness to every American.” ###
03.05.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement regarding his introduction of H.R. 1230, a bill that would adjust the calculation of average pay for purposes of Federal civilian annuities: “This bill would simply change the formula for determining pension benefits for civilian federal employees from the best-earning three years to the best-earning five years of service. The bill ensures that the program employees of the federal government have paid into for their careers is available in retirement and sustainable for future generations.” The Congressional Budget Office estimated that HR 1230’s formula change would save taxpayers a total of $3.1 billion over 10 years. The change would go into effect on January 1, 2017. As a part of the proposal, all federal civilian employees – including Members of Congress and their staffs – would be impacted by the change. The only exemption to the proposed legislative action are active duty and retired military personnel. ###
03.05.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Due to inclement weather, Congressman Bruce Westerman's offices in El Dorado, Hot Springs, Ozark, Pine Bluff, and Washington, D.C., are all closed today (March 5). ###
03.03.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement Tuesday (March 3) after voting against the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill (H.R. 240)“My vote today is in line with my vote six weeks ago. At that time, I voted to approve appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security while at the same time defunding the president’s illegal executive actions. I voted no today because the so-called ‘clean’ bill was anything but. It did nothing to address the president’s illegal actions and I will not lend my support to usurping the separation of powers outlined in the constitution be it for providing amnesty to illegal aliens or any other matter the president tries to legislate from the Oval Office.” ###
03.03.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement following Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s speech to a Joint Session of Congress on Tuesday (March 3): “Prime Minister Netanyahu’s speech to Congress highlighted the strong bond between Israel and the United States. And his speech brings clarity to the issue of a nuclear Iran, a nation which has long sought nuclear capabilities and at the same time has been a known sponsor, both fiscally and through its military, of terrorism around the world. I believe it is time that the U.S. stop dithering on its support of Israel and stand firm with our strongest Middle Eastern ally. I appreciate the Prime Minister bringing his unique perspective to the United States Congress. I believe we should heed his warning and I will do everything in my power to prevent a nuclear Iran. And as Moses said and the Prime Minister reminded us, it is time for our nations to ‘be strong and resolute. Neither fear nor dread them.’” ###
02.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement following his vote Friday (February 27) for a continuing resolution that funds the U.S. Department of Homeland Security for the next one week: “My vote today for the continuing resolution ensures that the president’s illegal executive action remains unfunded following the ruling of a federal judge in Texas. My vote also allows the hardworking men and women of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to have financial security while Congress works to craft a bill that upholds the Constitution and protects the United States. “It is my hope that the House and Senate are able to work together, in good faith, to find a solution during the next week. The House was able to pass a long-term Homeland Security funding bill six weeks ago that also fulfilled the will of my constituents by stopping the president’s unlawful action. “With this short-term extension, along with my vote today to conference with the Senate, we should find a solution for the long-term that prevents the president’s unconstitutional rewriting of our immigration laws and continues the tasks delegated to this government agency.” ###
02.26.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement regarding the FCC's passage of sweeping new regulations, known as "net neutrality:" “The rules approved by the Federal Communications Commission are yet another overreach of the Obama administration, passing heavy-handed regulation with no input from Congress. These rules will result in a nation less free than it was before this mind-boggling decision. Ask yourself – what is the problem with the Internet that requires a fix by an overreaching federal government? The FCC’s actions just mimic those of the president, focused more on special interests and less on promoting a good economic environment for Fourth District residents. It is time for Congress to act to keep the Internet free and open for all residents of the Fourth District, Arkansas and the United States and keep commerce flowing.” ###
02.26.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- The Service Academy Information Night scheduled for tonight, February 26, at 6 p.m. at the Pine Bluff High School Little Theater has been canceled due to weather and will be rescheduled at a later time. ###
02.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- The Service Academy Information Night previously scheduled for Tuesday night (February 24) at Ozark High School has been canceled due to inclement weather and road conditions, according to the office of Congressman Bruce Westerman. The office is working to plan an information night at a later time. ###
02.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS -- Congressman Bruce Westerman's Pine Bluff office will be closed Tuesday due to dangerous travel conditions in the region. Offices in El Dorado, Hot Springs and Ozark are scheduled to open at noon. The Washington, D.C., office is open normal business hours (8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CT). ###
02.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS -- Due to road conditions, Congressman Bruce Westerman's El Dorado, Hot Springs, Ozark, and Pine Bluff offices will not open until noon. The Washington, D.C., office will be open regular office hours (8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CT). ###
02.20.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) announced Friday that his office will host Service Academy Information Nights in coming weeks to provide students and their parents information on the application, nomination, selection, and appointment processes at the nation's five service academies. In addition to information on application and nomination to the academies, representatives from each of the following academies will be present to give a short orientation and to answer questions: The United States Military Academy at West Point, New York; The United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; The United States Coast Guard Academy at New London, Connecticut; The United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York; and The United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado. Each academy appointment has an estimated value of over $400,000 and competition for an appointment is keen. Each academy selects nominees on the basis of moral character scholastic achievement, physical fitness, leadership, and college admission test scores. Westerman encourages all interested students to attend one of the following academy nights: Ozark Ozark High School Library 1631 Hillbilly Drive February 24 at 6 p.m.Pine Bluff Pine Bluff High School Little Theater 711 W 11th Avenue February 26 at 6 p.m.Texarkana Arkansas High School Cafeteria 1500 Jefferson Avenue March 3 at 6 p.m.Hot Springs Region Lake Hamilton High School Media Center 280 Wolf Street in Percy March 10 at 6 p.m.Monticello Monticello High School Library 390 Clyde Ross Drive March 12 at 6 p.m. ###
02.20.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) announced Friday that his office will host a series of mobile offices at the following locations on Friday, February 27 (all times central). The Fourth District's mobile offices will assist constituents who are having problems with Veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security and other services involving the federal government. Anyone needing help can also contact Rep. Westerman's Hot Springs Office weekdays from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. by calling (501) 609-9796 or by visiting https://westerman.house.gov. Westerman also has offices located in El Dorado at 101 N. Washington St. and Pine Bluff at 100 East 8th Avenue, Room 2521. The Hot Springs office is located at 101 Reserve Street, Suite 200.Mansfield City Hall200 N. Seba Scott Ave. Mansfield, AR 729448:00 a.m. – 9:00 a.m.Scott County Courthouse190 W. 1st St. Waldron, AR 7295810:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m.Polk County Courthouse507 Church Ave.Mena, AR 71953 12:00 p.m. – 1:00 p.m.Montgomery County Courthouse105 Hwy. 270 EastMount Ida, AR 719572:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. ###
02.18.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) along with Congressmen Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03) and Bruce Westerman (AR-04) sent a letter to President Obama last week urging him to resolve contract negotiations between the dock workers union and shipowners at West Coast ports because of the negative economic consequences it’s having on Arkansas businesses. Over the weekend, the President sent Labor Secretary Tom Perez to help the sides reach an agreement. “We are hearing from many small businesses, farmers, livestock and poultry producers, store owners, factories, and workers who are impacted by this situation. Vessels continue to be anchored at bay, unable to load and unload cargo at docks which are effectively at maximum utilization capacity,” members wrote. “In our home state of Arkansas, the economic impacts of these slowdowns have been felt for months, but the situation is becoming much more severe. These delays must come to an end.” Click here to read the letter in its entirety. Contract negotiations between the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU), the union that represents the dockworkers and the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) have been ongoing since spring of 2014, causing disruptions in service. If an agreement is not reached between the two parties, West Coast ports would shut down. The National Retail Federation warns that this could cost the U.S. economy approximately $2 billion a day. -30-
02.12.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) filed his first bill Wednesday (February 12) since being sworn into the 114th Congress on January 6. The bill, H.R. 886, would provide states the flexibility to create workforce requirements for able-bodied individual Medicaid expansion recipients. "During my time in the Arkansas General Assembly, I came to realize that while I was attempting to do what was best for my state house district, my hands were often tied by the laws and regulations put in place at the federal level," Westerman said. "The goal of the State Flexibility and Workforce Requirement Act of 2015 is not to create a work requirement in Arkansas. The goal is simply to give my former colleagues in Little Rock the freedom to self-govern and set their own requirements for those able-bodied individuals seeking Medicaid assistance. If states are the ones administering the benefit to their citizens, who are we in the federal government to tell them yes or no when it comes to the specific rules they may want to set?" Co-sponsors of H.R. 886 include Rep. Rob Bishop (R, UT-01), Rep. Rod Blum (R, IA-01), Rep. Rick Crawford (R, AR-01), Rep. French Hill (R, AR-02), Rep. David Rouzer (R, NC-07), and Rep. Steve Womack (R, AR-03). The bill may be found here. A Westerman op-ed on H.R. 886 may be found here. -30-
02.11.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement upon final passage of the Keystone XL project in the House on Wednesday (February 11): "The approval of the Keystone pipeline is a long-overdue project that is about creating opportunity for private sector jobs and energy independence. With the passage of this bi-partisan legislation, we now have a bill going to the president's desk that we expect to be signed into law. Of course, the president has indicated that special interests are more important to him than energy independence. It is my hope that he will back down from his veto threat and do the right thing for Arkansas and America." -30-
02.11.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with U.S. Representative Bruce Westerman (AR-4), today announced the University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff (UAPB) received a U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) grant to study foodborne pathogens in order to make our food healthier and prevent foodborne illnesses. "We need to ensure that our food supply remains the safest, most reliable in the world. Investing in UAPB's research strengthens our ability to protect our food and improve our health. This is critical to Arkansas agriculture and our producers ability to feed our state, country and the world," Boozman said. "As our food chain has becoming increasingly globalized, this type of research is more important than ever. I am proud that UAPB will be a leader in ensuring our food safety and I look forward to seeing their progress and success," Cotton said. "I extend my congratulations to UAPB on this grant, which helps to ensure the wellness of our food supply in Arkansas and across the United States. I am proud the Fourth District's land grant university is taking leadership in this important research," Westerman said. UAPB will receive $149,000 from the USDA's National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA). -30-
02.10.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs), a member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 810, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2015: "Much of my childhood was spent in awe of the work of NASA and the dreams the men and women of America's space program made a reality. I was proud today to vote to reauthorize funding for NASA and the work the agency's devoted employees conduct on a daily basis. I hope the work done through this reauthorization will continue inspiring the next generation of scientists, engineers, and others who will continue to take dreams and make them reality." -30-
02.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman issued the following statement Friday (February 6) commemorating the birthday of former President Ronald Reagan on what would have been his 104th birthday. "Today we remember our nation's 40th president, the man who defined what it means to be a conservative in the modern era. But Ronald Reagan was more than a great president who stood for conservative principals and won the Cold War. He was a loving father, an adoring husband and the man who wrote the definition of what it means to be a statesman. And he shaped who I am politically and ideologically. As we mark his birthday, we look back on a time of growth, prosperity and greatness and I join my fellow Arkansans in working to advance his legacy and bring America back to those conservative governing principals during Reagan's eight years in the White House." About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
02.04.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement following questioning Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan on Wednesday (February 4): “Director Donovan’s appearance again demonstrates that the president’s budget is not based in reality. The simple fact is the president’s budget continues adding levels of debt never before seen under an American president and I, for one, will not stand for it. My colleagues and I on the House Budget Committee are working on realistic and balanced approach to the budget, which will force the president to stop spending money our country does not have, racking up bills my four children and future grandchildren will have to repay.” About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
02.03.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement Tuesday (February 3) on his vote to repeal Obamacare: "I am proud to follow through on a commitment I made to my fellow Arkansans: cast my vote to repeal to Obamacare. The president's namesake law has been damaging to hardworking Arkansans, resulting in lost insurance, reduced hours, lost jobs, less access and, as many will find out soon if it is not repealed, higher tax bills. The people spoke in November. It remains to be seen whether President Obama will listen or instead choose to protect his legacy." About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
02.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement regarding the president's proposed budget released Monday (February 2, 2015): "The president's proposed budget is nothing but a flip-flop. He was the president who signed sequestration into law. He was the one who said the government would have to live within its means when he was preparing his run for re-election. And now he is the one proposing to increase spending $74 billion above legally-mandated budget caps he signed into law. My question for the president is how does spending money like a drunken sailor on shore leave help hardworking Arkansans get back to work or improve their wages? It doesn't. Even with his plan to raise taxes on American families, his budget never balances. His proposed budget just props up the president's already tattered image and doubles down on his failed policies." A story in Friday's Washington Post reported the current level of deficit spending at 2.6% of the nation's current gross domestic product, with a Congressional Budget Office report released last week projecting an increase to 4.4% of GDP by 2025 based on current spending projections prior to the release of the president's proposed budget.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
02.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) announced the opening of an additional Fourth District office in the city of Ozark to open Feb. 9, 2015: "Locating an office in Ozark will better enable the Fourth District's congressional field staff to serve the citizens of Northwest Arkansas and the River Valley. The location, inside the Franklin County Courthouse, will be able to provide constituent services in the heart of the Ozarks, with convenient access to the Pig Trail to Madison County, as well as Interstate 40 to Crawford, Johnson, Sebastian and Yell Counties, as well as access to the district's other counties across western Arkansas. This location was selected with constituent service foremost in mind." The office will be located at 211 West Commercial Street in Ozark. The office phone number will be (501) 295-9752. Its fax number will be (501) 609-9887. Westerman also announced that his office will host its first series of mobile offices at the following locations on Thursday, February 12 (all times central). The Fourth District's mobile offices will assist constituents who are having problems with Veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security and other services involving the federal government. Anyone needing help can also contact Rep. Westerman's Hot Springs Office weekdays from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. by calling (501) 609-9796 or by visiting https://westerman.house.gov. Westerman also has offices located in El Dorado at 101 N. Washington St. and Pine Bluff at 100 East 8th Avenue, Room 2521. The Hot Springs office is located at 101 Reserve Street, Suite 200.Thursday, February 12 Madison County Courthouse 201 West Main Street Huntsville, AR 72740 8 a.m. to 9 a.m.Newton County Courthouse 100 East Court Street Jasper, AR 72641 10: 15 a.m. to 11:15 a.m.Johnson County Courthouse 215 West Main Street – Court Square Clarksville, AR 72830 12:45 p.m. to 1:45 p.m.Logan County Courthouse 25 West Walnut Street Room 22 Paris, AR 72855 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.30.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement on H.R. 594, the Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act: "It is time the executive branch of the federal government begins to respect the water rights of state and local governments, as well as private entities, and this bill is a step in that direction. This would prevent the EPA from broadening the Clean Water Act and would protect Americans from executive overreach. Those of us supporting Rep. Gosar's legislation are listening to our constituents and standing up to radical special interests. We hope the president would do the same, though his track record speaks for itself." About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.29.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement upon approval of construction of the Keystone XL pipeline in the U.S. Senate: "I congratulate the Senate on passage of its bi-partisan bill to build the Keystone XL pipeline. This is a long-overdue project that is about creating opportunity for private sector jobs and energy independence. It is my hope that the House quickly sends the bill to the president's desk where I look forward to seeing whether he sides with hardworking Americans – including the Arkansans that have constructed the pipe – or whether he sides with the special interests and political allies more concerned with their agenda and protecting his legacy." The U.S. House of Representatives voted 266-153 on January 9 to approve the project. Westerman's comments at the time are available by clicking here.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.29.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement in regarding his co-sponsorship of H.R. 114, the Jerusalem Embassy Act of 2015: "It high time that the United States lead the charge among global powers in recognizing Jerusalem as the capitol of Israel. As the center of government in America's oldest ally in the region, it only makes sense to have our embassy located in Jerusalem. Furthermore, placing our embassy in Jerusalem will tell the Israeli people, the American people, and the rest of the world that we continue to stand with Israel." Current law states that the embassy should be in Jerusalem, but the president has the power to wave the stated location every six months. H.R. 114 removes the president's waiver authority.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) announced Wednesday that he is seeking summer interns in both his Hot Springs and Washington offices. "As a former Congressional intern through a Future Farmers of America fellowship, I know how important internships are in developing engaged citizens and future leaders in America," Westerman said. "I am excited to welcome Fourth District interns to my Hot Springs and Washington offices and look forward to their contributions." In Washington D.C., interns' responsibilities will vary. The Washington office will be hosting two policy interns during each summer session. They will be asked to interact with constituents, research legislation for the Member and legislative staff, attend hearings and briefings, answer constituent letters on various issues before the House, and other work to support the Fourth District's office. As a result, interns will learn about the legislative process, and the many other functions of a congressional office. The Washington office will also host a communications intern during one of the office's two summer sessions. The communications intern, under the guidance of the press secretary and chief of staff, will be expected to interact with reporters, draft press releases, research legislation for the Member and communications team, assist with media clips, draft material for social media, develop and execute communications strategies, and attend hearings and briefings. The Hot Springs office will host three policy interns. In this office, interns may be asked to do a variety of tasks, including day-to-day office work such as interacting with constituents, writing letters, and assisting with media clips. In addition, interns may be assigned to assist in various constituent casework or on District-based projects that are of benefit to constituents. Positions are unpaid, though students will gain invaluable work experience. The hours are flexible to accommodate students' course schedules, but generally run from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. ET/8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CT. Interns in both Washington and Hot Springs will be responsible for their own travel, housing and living costs. While our office will prioritize candidates from the Fourth District and Arkansas, we will accept and review all applications. Washington internships are open to students with two years of college. Hot Springs internships are open to high school students who have completed their junior year, as well as college students.Summer Session I will run from May 25 to June 26 and Summer Session II will run from June 29 to July 31. To apply, please fill out the online application found at https://westerman.house.gov/services/internships/internship-form. The deadline to apply for Summer Sessions I and II is March 2, 2015. For more information, contact internship coordinator Victoria Bell at 202-225-3772.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement on President Barack Obama's decision to back down from a previously announced plan to tax 529 college savings plans that benefits hardworking Arkansas families saving for their children's education: "Finally, the president has listened to the American people and Members of Congress, who made clear to the president that his plan was an unfair punishment for doing the right thing – working hard and saving for their child's future. The president could stand to learn from his predecessor, President Clinton, who implemented policies of a Republican-led Congress, which went a long way to improve America and his own legacy. I hope this is the beginning of a change in the president's thinking, moving to do the right thing for Fourth District residents and hardworking Americans. But I'm hesitant to expect any change I can believe in, not after six years of the president's reckless policies and complete disregard for the wellbeing of Fourth District residents." Following the State of the Union address on January 20, Westerman took the president to task for his proposed tax increases on 529 college savings accounts. His comments may be found by clicking here.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement upon passage of the LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act, H.R. 351, a bill co-sponsored by Westerman: "I am proud to have voted for this bill that reduces federal bureaucracy to ensure that LNG export approval processes are streamlined. It promotes job creation, energy independence, and strengthens our national security. H.R. 351 makes sense for the Fourth District and makes sense for America as it reduces the burdens in place on energy producers. I look forward to the bill's passage in the Senate and urge the president to think about Americans, not his own legacy, when this bill lands on his desk." According to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, H.R. 351 would: Place a 30-day deadline on the Department of Energy to issue final decisions on all applications to export LNG following NEPA environmental reviews of LNG facilities; Provide for expedited judicial review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the circuit where export facilities are proposed; and Require disclosure of destinations of exported LNG as a condition of approval for all LNG exports. About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement upon Tuesday's vote on H.R. 159, the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act which Westerman co-sponsored, as well as suspension bills that would strengthen federal laws aimed at combatting human sex trafficking: "I was pleased to be able to vote in favor of these bills that make American laws tougher for those who engage in human sex-trafficking. These bills mirror similar bi-partisan legislation passed when I was in the Arkansas General Assembly. H.R. 159 specifically provides assistance for victims of human sex-trafficking through providing Jobs Corps benefits during their recovery. These bills are important steps in our continued efforts to stop human sex-trafficking not just in Arkansas, but in the United States and abroad." Also on Tuesday, Congressman Westerman took part in a bi-partisan press conference on the bills along with Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Rep. Karen Bass (D-CA), Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-VA), Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL), Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-NC), Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD), Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN), Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX), Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ), Rep. Jason Smith (R-MO), Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY), and Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO). Bills voted on Tuesday in addition to H.R. 159 include: H.R. 468 (Enhancing Services for Runaway and Homeless Victims for Youth Trafficking Act of 2015), H.R. 469 (Strengthening Child Welfare Response to Trafficking Act of 2015), H.R. 246 (a bill to improve the response to victims of child sex trafficking), H.R. 514 (Human Trafficking Prioritization Act), H.R. 515 (International Megan's Law to Prevent Demand for Child Sex Trafficking), and H.R. 357 (Human Trafficking Prevention Act).* Photos of the press conference may be downloaded for republication and/or broadcast at www.flickr.com/photos/repwesterman.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement on the recent Congressional Budget Office testimony that the federal debt will balloon in the next decade: "Projections from the CBO showing the nearly a doubling of the debt by 2024 is troubling and should be a wakeup call for the president and Congress. Washington has spent too many years kicking the can down the road, paying for government through budget gimmicks and cliffhanger votes to keep the lights on. We must seize the opportunity with this new Congress to start living within our means, and that starts with passing a budget that the president and the government will have to follow, just like every other hardworking Arkansas family." The CBO report projected a rising debt beginning in 2018, with a doubling of the debt by 2024. Federal debt is projected to be $21.6 trillion by 2016.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.23.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) along with Congressmen Rick Crawford (AR-01) and Bruce Westerman (AR-04) joined colleagues in sending a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry urging him to encourage Iraq to purchase more American produced rice. The letter asks for diplomatic assistance to improve trade relations with the Iraqi Grain Board (IGB) because of the decreased purchases of American produced rice. In recent years, the IGB has bought rice from other nations over lower cost American rice. The letter asserts that the IGB has not indicated that American rice is deficient in quality, grade or price. Arkansas leads the nation in rice production. Rice is the top agricultural export for the Natural State. Nationwide, rice production generates approximately $34 billion in economic activity annually, creating thousands of jobs in rural America. “We recognize Iraq’s prerogative to make these types of decisions, but it serves no purpose to discriminate against competitively-priced U.S. rice in favor of rice produced elsewhere. As an example, on November 6, 2014, the Iraqi Grain Board announced its intent to purchase 170,000 metric tons (mt) of rice. The IGB purchased 80,000 mt from Thailand, 60,000 from Uruguay, and 30,000 from Brazil. No rice was purchased from the United States, despite offers of U.S. rice that were of similar quality but nearly $24 per mt below the prices from competitors from Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay. Iraqi authorities have provided no explanation for this type of decision,” the letter states. Click here to read the letter in its entirety. The IGB is expected to begin accepting bids on a new tender to buy 30,000 metric tons of rice soon. The letter was also signed by Senators Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), David Purdue (R-Ga.), David Vitter (R-La.) and Roger Wicker (R-Miss.). Members of the House of Representatives signing the letter include Ralph Abraham (R-La.), Brian Babin (R-Texas), Charles Boustany (R-La.), Mike Conaway (R-Texas), Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), John Fleming (R-La.), Gregg Harper (R-Miss.), Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.), Doug LaMalfa (R-Calif.), Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-Mo.), Randy Neugebauer (R-Texas), Alan Nunnelee (R-Miss.), Steven Palazzo (R-Miss.), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Austin Scott (R-Ga.), Jason Smith (R-Mo.), Bennie G. Thompson (D-Miss.), Mike Thompson (D-Calif.), Mac Thornberry (R-Texas), David Valadao (R-Calif.) and Randy Weber (R-Texas).
01.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Arkansas's Congressional delegation today requested an extension for the public comment period for the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Plains& Eastern Clean Line Transmission Project. In a letter sent to Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz, the delegation requests more time for constituents to share their views and/or concerns, noting that the comment period was announced during the holiday season. "We understand the importance of infrastructure projects, including properly-sited transmission lines, but we also believe that potentially-impacted landowners and citizens must be treated fairly and they must have every opportunity to eliminate or minimize impacts before projects are considered. In short, private property rights must be protected. Accordingly, we request that you provide at least a 60-day extension of the comment period for the Draft EIS and Section 106 process on the Plains& Eastern Clean Line Transmission Project," the letter states. The letter was signed by both of Arkansas's U.S. Senators, John Boozman (R-AR) and Tom Cotton (R-AR), as well as neighboring Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN). All four Arkansas Congressmen – Rick Crawford (AR-1), French Hill (AR-2), Steve Womack (AR-3) and Bruce Westerman (AR-4) – also signed the letter. The full text of the letter can be found HERE.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CLARKSVILLE – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement regarding the Hanesbrands expansion in Clarksville: "I congratulate Hanesbrand and the city of Clarksville on the announcement of 120 new jobs in the Fourth District. This is not only great for the individuals hired at the facility, but the local economy, as well. The construction jobs created by this expansion, as well as the infusion of economic benefit in the Johnson County economy from those permanently employed, will help spur further development in the community. "Jobs announcements like the one today are far too rare in today's economy. My pledge to the people of Clarksville, Johnson County and the entire Fourth Congressional District is to work on policies that promote job creation through lower taxes and less red tape so all communities in our region and state can experience growth like Hanesbrand announced today. I look forward to working with Governor Hutchinson and other state and local officials to make sure Arkansas and the Fourth District are prime locations to expand existing businesses and grow new ones." Hanesbrand announced Friday that it would expand its Clarksville facility at 1904 West Clark Road, relocating a women's hose line from Mexico at a cost of $1.4 million. The project will receive $400,000 in state flexibility funds. FULL TEXT OF WESTERMAN'S PREPARED REMARKS AT HANES ANNOUNCEMENT "I want to thank you, Travis, for that warm introduction. And thank you to Matt Hall and plant manager Cathy Stalcup for hosting this event today. Mayor Simpson, I want to thank you, too, for hosting us. It is always a pleasure to be in Clarksville. And Governor Hutchinson, it is a pleasure to see you today and welcome you to the Fourth District for your first jobs announcement as Governor! "And what a day it is for Hanes and the city of Clarksville. Not only is the city getting an investment of more than $1 million, but with that investment comes construction jobs and 120 permanent jobs following the plant’s opening. "This is about more than just a jobs announcement for the city of Clarksville – this is about a wave of development that will come to Clarksville and Johnson County as a result of Hanes’ investment in our community. As we all know, the total $1.4 million investment by Hanes will multiply several times over as construction workers spend their earnings at local restaurants, hardware stores, and retail stores as they feed their families, and spur further development through spending their hard earned dollars in this, their own community. "The same will be true once Hanes begins hiring and Clarksville residents again see 120 new employees join the expanded payroll at this facility. "But the growth and economic development brought about by this single expansion doesn’t have to stop in Clarksville or Johnson County. All of the Fourth District and Arkansas should be able to experience events like these, celebrate announcements like these, and appreciate times like these in the coming months and years. How do we do that? By cutting through the red tape, lowering taxes and making it easier for job creators to do just that, create jobs. "I want to say congratulations again to Hanes and the city of Clarksville on this jobs announcement." About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.22.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement on House leadership's decision to pull the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, H.R. 36: "It is disappointing to me that Members are not able to vote their consciences today on the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. In the Arkansas General Assembly, we fought battles to have the opportunity to give our Pain-Capable law an up-or-down vote. I was proud to stand with my constituents to bring the vote to the floor, to pass it, and override a partisan veto. I look forward to having those same opportunities to stand with my constituents in this Congress. I strongly urge leadership to give Members the chance to vote on this bill that will protect unborn children across America." About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.21.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement regarding the invitation by Speaker John Boehner to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to address a joint meeting of Congress on February 11, 2015: "As a strong supporter of Israel, it pleases me that Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu has accepted Speaker Boehner's invitation to address a joint meeting of Congress. It is my hope that in spite of the weak foreign policy of the Obama administration in the Middle East, Prime Minister Netanyahu will leave Capitol Hill having a firm knowledge that Congress is committed to the bond between our two great nations, realizing that a strong Israel is in the best interest of America. "It is also my hope that the prime minister, through years of first hand experience, will be able to convey to the United States Congress and Americans across our great country the dangers faced by Israel, France, and our allies around the world at the hands of radical Islam. Terrorism is a threat more real today than ever, and Prime Minister Netanyahu's words of wisdom about his nation's long fight against terrorists are most welcome in light of recent attacks around the world." About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.20.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement regarding President Barack Obama’s State of the Union Address: “While President Obama gave a good speech with nice words about the middle class, this is yet another reminder that his words and his actions do not match up. It is hard for me to take the president’s talk of strengthening the middle class seriously when he proposes tax increases on college savings accounts that benefit the middle class. Increasing taxes, coupled with promises to veto legislation promoting energy price stability and restoring the 40-Hour work week shows me that he is simply continuing to talk out of both sides of his mouth. “The voters spoke in a loud, clear voice in November when they voted to increase the Republican majority in the House and gave the Senate its first Republican majority since the president took office. We heard our constituents. Unfortunately, the president appears to have turned a deaf ear and remains focused on campaigning for his legacy—not governing the country.” Congressman Westerman’s guest for the State of the Union was Dr. John Pace of Hot Springs. Dr. Pace is a neurosurgeon and longtime friend of the congressman.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.19.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HOT SPRINGS -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day: "On this day, we remember a man who fought for equality and liberty for all. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and the causes he fought for inspire me today as I work for the people of Arkansas's Fourth District. On this day designated to honor a great American, I urge all Arkansans to take a moment to reflect on the life and legacy of Dr. King." Westerman attended the NAACP MLK Breakfast in Hot Springs on Saturday morning (January 17). About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Space, Science, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan, which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) today issued the following statement on his appointment to the Public Lands and Environmental Regulations Subcommittee and the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee under the House Committee on Natural Resources: "I want to thank Chairman Bishop for the privilege to serve on these two important subcommittees. With my new district office located within Hot Springs National Park — America's oldest federal reserve — it is an honor for me to serve on these panels. Additionally, as a professional engineer and forester, I will work for the citizens of Arkansas and America to enact common sense policies to improve our way of life through good stewardship and utilization of our natural resources." Westerman was named to the subcommittees by the Chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources, Rep. Rob Bishop (R-Utah). Earlier this week, Westerman was previously appointed Vice Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Environment, which is part of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. He also serves on the House Budget Committee.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.14.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) released the following statement regarding passage of the FY 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations bill (H.R. 240): "I was proud to vote to fund important and essential homeland security functions while pushing back against President Obama's unprecedented executive overreach of last November 20. The president needs reminding that we have three, co-equal branches of government, and our action today serves notice that we will restore the legislative branch to equal status." Prior to Wednesday's vote, Westerman made his first floor speech in favor of the Aderholt Amendment, which stripped funding for enforcement of President Barack Obama's executive actions. The full text of Westerman's speech can be found by following this link.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.14.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- The following are the full prepared remarks of Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs), speaking in favor of the Aderholt Amendment and against overreach by the executive branch. The amendment to H.R. 240, the FY 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, would prevent any funds from being used to enforce President Barack Obama's November 20, 2014, executive actions. Remarks on the House Floor Rep. Bruce Westerman (AR-4) January 14, 2015 "I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I rise in support of this amendment. "Mr. Speaker, many of my constituents are much like me: We are ready for a government that works like the one we studied in Civics class. One with co-equal branches of power. "Winston Churchill once stated that the price of greatness is responsibility. As members of the legislative branch, voting yes for this amendment is a responsible step in the right direction. "I yield back the balance of my time." Video of Westerman&amp;#039;s First Floor Speech on Executive Overreach About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) released the following statement Tuesday (January 13) after he was announced as vice chairman of the Subcommittee on Environment as part of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: "It is an honor to serve as vice chairman of this important subcommittee. We will lead the charge for sensible regulation and unearthing the scientific justification for actions taken by the Environmental Protection Agency. I look for forward to serving under the subcommittee chairmanship of Rep. Jim Bridenstine (R-Okla.), as well as serving with my colleagues from across the House." Westerman was previously appointed to the other following committees for the 114th Congress: the House Committee on Natural Resources and the House Committee on the Budget.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) today issued the following statement congratulating Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson and the state's constitutional officers on their swearing in: "I want to congratulate Governor Hutchinson and the newest members of the executive branch. I look forward to working with the governor to achieve policies in the best interest of all Arkansans and assisting him in any way I can. Likewise, I look forward to working with the new members of the executive branch to do my part in Congress to allow local government to work for the people without the burdensome regulations at the federal level." About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) released the following statement on his co-sponsorship of the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act, H.R. 159: "Sex trafficking is a real and present problem in Arkansas and across the United States. By co-sponsoring the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act, we are taking action at the federal level much as we did when I was in the state legislature to stamp out human trafficking in our nation. This bill not only is modeled on state laws including the bi-partisan legislation passed in Arkansas during the last legislative session, but goes further by incentivizing states who adopt safe harbor laws with more funding for 'Cops on the Beat' grants and assisting victims rescued from trafficking with Jobs Corps benefits to be used during their recovery." The bill, which would also establish a national human trafficking hotline, is endorsed by Fraternal Order of Police, Shared Hope International, National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, and the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. Arkansas's anti-human trafficking law, Act 133, passed the Arkansas House 91-0 and the Arkansas Senate 35-0 during the 2013 legislative session. About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.12.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) today issued the following statement on his co-sponsorship of H.R. 36, the Pain Capable Unborn Child Act, and H.R. 217, the Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act: "Co-sponsorship of these bills continues a fight I began in the Arkansas General Assembly to protect the lives of unborn children. The Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act prohibits federal grants through Title X to Planned Parenthood, the largest abortion provider in the United States, while H.R. 36, Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, is similar to legislation I co-sponsored in the Arkansas House and led the fight to override a governor's veto to make it law. "I believe that it is my duty to protect those that cannot defend themselves." According to a 2010 Government Accountability Office report, taxpayers subsidized 45 percent of Planned Parenthood's budget, receiving a record $514 million in funding. Of Planned Parenthood pregnancy services offered, 92 percent are abortions, while prenatal care and adoptions make up the remaining eight percent of services offered by the organization.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester in. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.12.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) today issued the following statement on the start of the 90th Arkansas General Assembly: "I want to congratulate my former colleagues in the Arkansas House and Senate on the start of the 90th General Assembly. As this new year and new session begins, the state legislature is working for the same causes I am fighting for in Washington – less hassle from government and more freedom for the hardworking taxpayers we represent. "As the new and returning representatives and senators begin the work their constituents sent them to Little Rock to complete, I commit myself to doing my part in Washington to expand federalism by loosening the ties that bind my friends in the legislature so they can successfully govern our state free from overly burdensome regulation by the federal government." Congressman Westerman served in the General Assembly from 2011-2014, serving as the House Minority Leader in 2012 and as the House Majority Leader in 2013 – the first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester in. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON -- Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 3 Friday, which would authorize construction of the Keystone XL pipeline from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico: "It is time to build this pipeline, put our nation on the path to energy independence, and create thousands of good-paying jobs in the process. In Arkansas, our very own Welspun Tubular has already produced 350 miles of pipe for the project, pipe that is stacked up like cord-wood, collecting rust while the president drags his feet and refuses to put Americans to work. "The Keystone pipeline is a first step in moving the United States in the right direction on energy, and its construction permit should have been issued years ago. I hope the president backs down from his veto threat, and stands with his own Secretary of State, John Kerry, who approved the final environmental impact statement one year ago." Friday's passage of H.R. 3 came just hours after the Nebraska Supreme Court dismissed a lawsuit challenging the route of the pipeline.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester in. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement announcing his co-sponsorship of H.R. 178, the Terrorist Denaturalization and Passport Revocation Act: "The Terrorist Denaturalization and Passport Revocation Act protects the United States from attacks by those seeking to join terrorist organizations and invoke terror here at home. Should an American take up arms with those looking to inflict harm on the U.S., this bill suspends the individual's passport, revokes citizenship and prevents re-entry to the country." The bill, introduced Friday, is sponsored by Rep. Steve Womack (R-Rogers).About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester in. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children.Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement Wednesday on the passage of H.R. 30, the Save American Workers Act of 2015, a bill to restore the 40-hour full-time work week that Westerman has co-sponsored and President Barack Obama has threatened to veto: “The president can threaten a veto, but his unwillingness to make changes to an unworkable Obamacare simply hurts the average worker. His veto threat only highlights how the president’s failed policies continue to hurt the citizens of the Fourth District. My constituents will be watching to see if the president will choose to stand with Arkansas workers, or choose to protect his legacy. Will the president admit that the 30-hour work week hurts Arkansas workers and employers, or will he only think about protecting his namesake piece of legislation? “H.R. 30 puts Americans back to work, and improves the bottom lines of small businesses across the Fourth District struggling to make payroll each week. By repealing Obamacare’s 30-hour work week mandate, we are reducing the hassles imposed on businesses by the Obama administration and putting more money in the pockets of business owners and American workers.” Obamacare mandates that employers with 50 or more full-time employees must provide health insurance to all of those full-time employees. The law defines full-time as 30 hours per week. The law in its current form has disproportionately affected several groups, with 63 percent of workers who have lost work hours due to the mandates being women, while 89 percent have been individuals without a college degree according to a report from the House Committee on Ways and Means from the 113th Congress. A Congressional Budget Office report said restoring a 40-hour work week would create $75 billion in higher cash wages and $63 billion in lower taxes.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester in. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWASHINGTON – Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement announcing his co-sponsorship of H.R. 30, the Save American Workers Act, which would repeal the 30-hour work week mandated by Obamacare and restore the traditional 40-hour work week: "My goal as a Member of Congress is to fight to lessen the hassles President Obama and his administration have laid on small businesses, making it harder for Fourth District workers to get a good-paying jobs. I am proud to co-sponsor this bill and look forward to the opportunity to vote for it Thursday. I urge the President to back down from his threat to veto this important bill, and side with those of us in Congress that are standing with Arkansas workers." The Congressional Budget Office has previously said the Save American Workers Act would create $75 billion in higher cash wages, and would lower taxes by $63 billion. It is scheduled to be voted on in the House on Thursday.About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester in. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children.Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. -30-
01.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement on H.R. 22, the Hire More Heroes Act, Westerman's first co-sponsored piece of legislation to pass the U.S. House of Representatives: "I am proud to have cast my first legislative vote for a measure that puts America's veterans back to work and encourages business owners to hire true American heroes. This bill reduces the hassles imposed on business owners by Obamacare's burdensome mandates and provides jobs and continued healthcare for veterans." The bill, which originally passed the 113th Congress last year by a vote of 406-1, would allow employers who hire veterans receiving medical care through the Veterans Administration to be exempted from counting the employed veteran toward the employer mandate in Obamacare. The mandate requires employers provide healthcare coverage under Obamacare once reaching 50 full-time employees, regardless of whether veterans receive healthcare through the VA. About Rep. Bruce Westerman A lifelong resident of Garland County, Congressman Bruce Westerman was elected the 20th representative of Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District in 2014. In the 114th Congress, he will serve on the Committee on Natural Resources, the Committee on the Budget, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Elected twice to serve in the Arkansas General Assembly, Westerman was Arkansas's first Republican House Majority Leader since Reconstruction, and an architect of the House Republican SIMPLE Plan which led to the 2013 Republican takeover of the Arkansas House of Representatives. An engineer and forester for 22 years at Mid-South Engineering in Hot Springs, Westerman is a registered professional engineer and forester in. He holds a Master of Forestry degree (2001) from Yale University. In 2013, he was named Engineer of the Year by the Arkansas Society of Professional of Engineers. Westerman graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering from the University of Arkansas in 1990. While at Arkansas, Westerman was a four-year walk-on member of the Razorback Football Team. He received the Outstanding Young Alumni Award in 2005 and the Distinguished Alumni Award in 2012. Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children.Westerman is a former board member of the Fountain Lake School District and is a deacon at Walnut Valley Baptist Church. He lives in Hot Springs with his wife Sharon and their four children. For more information on Rep. Bruce Westerman, please visit https://westerman.house.gov and follow him on Twitter at https://twitter.com/RepWesterman and Facebook at https://facebook.com/RepWesterman. -30-
01.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 6, 2015 WASHINGTON – Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Hot Springs) issued the following statement upon his swearing in Tuesday as the 20th congressman from Arkansas's Fourth Congressional District: "It is a great honor and privilege to serve the hardworking taxpayers of Arkansas in their Fourth District office. As we start the 114th Congress, I look forward to fighting for more freedom for my constituents who have seen nothing but hassles from President Obama and his administration's record of overreach. This Congress will force the President to make a choice—whether to listen to people, or follow his own personal agenda. I am looking forward to his choice." The official swearing in at noon in the House chamber was followed by a ceremonial swearing in with Speaker Boehner in the Rayburn House Office Building. Westerman was joined for the ceremony by his wife, Sharon; children Eli and Asa; and his parents. An open house was also held Tuesday at Westerman's Washington office for constituents to have a chance to visit with Westerman and the Fourth District staff. Additional district offices are open in Hot Springs at 101 Reserve Street, Pine Bluff at 101 E. 8th Avenue, Room 2521; and El Dorado at 101 N. Washington Street, Suite 406. Office hours will be 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. central time.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
