12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Graham joined a bipartisan group of representatives to pass the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (FY2017 NDAA) by a vote of 375-34. The 2017 NDAA provides an increase in military spending, the largest pay raise for troops in six years, and includes several important provisions for Florida defense installations amended to the bill by Rep. Graham, the state’s only Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee. “I’m incredibly proud of all the work we’ve accomplished on the House Armed Services Committee. With a focus on working together, we've been able to make great progress for the men and women serving in our armed forces and for Florida,” Rep. Graham said. “I’m especially proud of all we've accomplished to protect defense programs at Tyndall Air Force Base and Naval Support Activity Panama City and to clear the way for a new Army Reserve Center at MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa.” Rep. Graham’s initiatives included in the FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act: Protecting a program to study mine countermeasure capabilities – including those at Naval Support Activity Panama City Constructing a new Army Reserve Center and Aviation Support Facility at MacDill Air Force Base. Doubling the amount of money that goes to joint US-Israel anti-tunnel defense cooperation program from $25M per year to $50M per year. Recognizing Panama City for its important role in the development and support of the United States armed forces Progress on a new re-employment program for veterans, a study of an agriculture equipment share program, and support for lithium ion super-capacitors made in Tallahassee The legislation also raises military pay by 2.1%, the largest pay raise in six years. It provides investments in capabilities for power projection, counterterrorism, deterrence, ground combat, sea power, and air superiority to help maintain the U.S. military’s advantages in the twenty-first century. And, it fully funds cybersecurity and cyberspace operations at $6.7 billion and elevates Cyber Command to a combatant command to better defend against cyberattacks. Military installations in Florida contribute more than $70 billion to our state's economy — more than nine percent of our total gross state product, according to the Florida Chamber of Commerce. The FY2017 NDAA authorizes roughly $543.4 billion in base budget authority and $67.8 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) for a total $611.2 billion in discretionary budget authority. The base budget authority includes roughly $523.7 billion for the Department of Defense (DOD), roughly $19.4 billion for the defense-related activities of the Department of Energy (DOE), and nearly $300 million for other defense-related activities. Graham also led a successful effort to double the amount of money for a joint US-Israel anti-tunnel defense cooperation program, which she passed in last year's NDAA. “It’s been an honor to help strengthen the relationship between the United States and Israel. This year we were able to double the funding for the joint anti-tunnel defense corporation program between our two countries. This legislation will play a vital role in strengthening our borders and protecting both our nations from terrorism,” Rep. Graham said. ###
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham joined a bipartisan group of House members on Wednesday in voting to pass the 21st Century Cures Act, legislation that aims to modernize and strengthen our nation’s pursuit of lifesaving treatments and cures and includes funding for Vice President Joe Biden’s cancer moonshot. “I have always supported increased funding to find cures for Alzheimer’s, HIV, cancer and other diseases that affect millions of Americans each year – but when my husband was diagnosed with cancer, just months ago, this fight became even more personal for us,” Rep. Graham said. “It was a bitter sweet moment to vote for this legislation, and I’m proud Republicans and Democrats came together to support greater funding for research and to save lives.” The 21st Century Cures Act dedicates more than $6 billion for new investments for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and grants to combat opioid abuse. ###
11.16.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – After making a public records request to the State of Florida for documents about the Polk County sinkhole, and experiencing weeks of delay in receiving a response, Congresswoman Gwen Graham today said that the records which were released raise serious questions about the response of the governor's office and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) to a potential crisis. "Unless there are records that were not produced as required by law, the disclosures show an alarming lack of communication among state regulators about a threat to the health and safety of Florida families and our environment," said Graham. "I am very concerned that we had a watchdog agency asleep at the wheel." According to the records, before the sinkhole was exposed by the media, nearly all of the electronic communications regarding the incident were email exchanges between the DEP and Mosaic employees. Records from the governor's office and DEP contained very few internal communications between state employees concerning the sinkhole before it became public. And while there were several emails from the governor’s office about Graham’s questions, there were none demonstrating concern over the sinkhole and DEP’s response or examining potential solutions to the problem. Equally concerning was the state's communications with its own scientists, much of which appears to be instructions on how to handle questions from constituents and the press. At least one geologist, who has spent more than 20 years working for the state, raised concerns over the lack of information: “I’m working on that facility with EPA but no one told me about it [the sinkhole]. So much for communication.” “These public records responses indicate communication has broken down within Governor Scott’s state agencies,” Graham said. “With this kind of threat to Florida families and the environment, the governor's office and DEP should have been ringing alarm bells and taking swift action. Nothing in these records indicates they were operating with any sense of urgency. Either we are still missing documents, or the state didn't particularly care. Neither situation is acceptable." The records from the governor’s office can be found, here. Emails from DEP can be found, here. Video footage of the sinkhole found in the emails can also be viewed, here.
11.10.2016	PANAMA CITY, Fla. – On the eve of Veterans Day, Representative Gwen Graham announced her office has helped return more than $500,000 owed to North Florida veterans and their families. “I ran for public office to help people – especially North Florida veterans and their families,” Rep. Graham said. “I’m proud to say we’ve been able to accomplish that goal. The benefits we’ve returned are more than just a number, they make a real difference in these veterans’ lives.” Rep. Graham made the announcement surrounded by veterans at a press conference at the American Legion post in Panama City. Below are examples of some of the veterans helped by her office, who spoke at the press conference. Kenneth McCray - After being denied benefits by the VA, Graham helped this Vietnam veteran receive a large retroactive disability payment, as well as new monthly benefits Joe Hutchison – Graham helped this Korean war veteran receive a long-overdue Purple Heart, decades after his service Beverly Swartz – Graham helped this veteran see a doctor closer to home, through the Veterans Choice Program “If it wasn’t for Congresswoman Graham, I don’t know what I’d be doing right now. I don’t know what I’d be doing with the pain from my injuries or the pain from being turned down for the benefits I earned as a veteran,” Kenneth McCray said. “This Veterans Day, I’m incredibly thankful for every Floridian who has served our nation. As your Congresswoman, helping veterans is my top priority. I hope the example we set will encourage all Americans to show their thanks to these brave men and women,” Rep. Graham said. ###
11.04.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Six weeks after first requesting public records pertaining to the state’s secret sinkhole, Representative Gwen Graham is demanding to know why Governor Rick Scott and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection are stalling the release of emails related to the controversy. “Public records are the one tool we have to keep Governor Rick Scott and his Department of Environmental Protection honest. They kept the sinkhole secret for weeks – and now they’re stalling on our public records requests, “Graham said. “Floridians have a right to know the truth, and if the governor won’t hold the Department of Environmental Protection accountable for this massive mistake, we will.” Graham’s office has been told by DEP officials that it has taken weeks for the department to complete a legal review of the records, and that the department’s communications team is also reviewing the public records before releasing them. In letters to Governor Rick Scott and DEP Secretary Steverson, Graham pointed out this may constitute a violation of the state’s Sunshine Law. Copies of the letters and public record requests can be viewed here. “As you are aware, Florida courts have ruled that an agency’s unjustified delay in producing public records constitutes an unlawful refusal to provide access to the requested records, in violation of chapter 119, Fla. Stat. The only delay in releasing public records permitted by law ‘is the limited reasonable time allowed the custodian to retrieve the record and delete those portions of the record the custodian asserts are exempt.’” Graham wrote in the letter. “Because this request does not involve an ongoing criminal investigation and the requested communications are unlikely to include exempt or confidential information (such as local residents’ Social Security numbers), there should be very little information to redact from these records. There is no excuse for this process to take longer than a few days – certainly not six weeks.” Rep. Graham requested public records from the Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) six weeks ago, on Friday, September 23. After Rick Scott claimed Steverson, his own hand-picked DEP secretary, kept the sinkhole secret from the governor’s office, Rep. Graham sent a second public records request for communication from the governor’s office on September 29, 36 days ago. Neither request, which only include electronic communication, has been answered. This is not the first time Rick Scott has skirted the state’s Sunshine Laws. The governor and Florida Cabinet have spent more than $1 million in taxpayer funds, including $445,000 from the DEP, on legal fees and settlements for public record violations. ###
11.03.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Following requests from Representative Gwen Graham, the Federal Emergency Management Agency Administration (FEMA) is expanding individual assistance for those affected by Hurricane Hermine to Taylor and Wakulla counties. Previously, Leon was the only county in the Second Congressional District eligible for individual assistance. “I want to thank the administration and FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate for extending assistance to North Florida’s rural counties. Now all those affected by Hurricane Hermine will be able to receive the assistance they deserve,” Rep. Graham said. “Our office is ready to help them cut through any bureaucratic red tape to access this new aid.” Rep. Graham’s office has set up a website with recovery information and details on individual assistance and other forms of aid at https://graham.house.gov/storm. The expansion of individual assistance follows a letter Rep. Graham sent to FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate requesting he expand the designation to Florida’s rural counties on September 28. The full text of Representative Graham’s request is below: September 28, 2016 The Honorable W. Craig Fugate Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street, SW Washington, DC 20024 Dear Administrator Fugate: I write today regarding the recent issuance of a major disaster declaration for the State of Florida triggering the release of federal funds to help people and communities recover from Hurricane Hermine that occurred August 31 to September 11, 2016. In addition to the counties included in the initial September 28 declaration, Governor Rick Scott included Franklin, Taylor, and Wakulla counties for individual assistance. As you continue to make designations for all affected counties, I encourage you to expedite these requests so that people can get the assistance they need. Floridians are still cleaning up from this disaster – people in counties that were included in the initial designation and those in counties still under federal review. It is important to all of us that all designations are made as quickly as possible. Thank you for your commitment to get this done. Sincerely, Gwen Graham ###
10.26.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla — In wake of the California National Guard bonus scandal, Representative Gwen Graham is taking steps to ensure no Florida National Guard soldiers or veterans are asked to return any bonuses or benefits they earned while serving in Iraq or Afghanistan. In a letter sent to Florida’s National Guard this morning, Rep. Graham wrote, “Members of our Florida National Guard have done everything our state and our country has asked of them, both here at home and abroad. I understand that the current situation in California exists in part because the California National Guard believes that it is legally required to recoup these bonuses. I want to ensure that under no circumstances will this issue spread to Florida and that our guardsmen are able to keep every dollar and benefit they’ve earned.” Rep. Graham also applauded Defense Secretary Ash Carter’s announcement this morning that the Department of Defense would suspend efforts to reclaim reenlistment bonuses. “The Department of Defense should have never initiated these clawbacks – but I’m glad they’re finally doing the right thing. Congress must now work together to pass a legislative fix for this issue and to ensure our men and women in uniform receive every bonus and benefit they were promised,” Rep. Graham said. Rep. Graham is one of just three Florida members and the only Florida Democrat serving on the House Armed Services Committee. The first piece of legislation she introduced was the VETS Act, she’s voted to strengthen our military, and she has returned more than $500,000 in benefits owed to Florida veterans and their families. Rep. Graham’s full letter to Major General Michael A. Calhoun is copied below: October 26, 2016 Major General Michael A. Calhoun The Adjutant General of Florida St. Francis Barracks 82 Marine Street St. Augustine, FL 32084 Dear General Calhoun: I write today regarding reports that thousands of California soldiers are being forced to repay reenlistment bonuses a decade after going to war. I am concerned that this issue might not be isolated to California and am seeking information regarding whether any member of the Florida National Guard has been asked to repay a reenlistment bonus. This information will be helpful for me and for the Congress as we look for regulatory or legislative solutions to this problem. Currently, I am working with my colleagues to ask for an immediate halt to ongoing efforts to recoup the bonuses. We’re also asking, in appropriate cases, that our military leadership waives the bonus recoupment under pre-existing authorities, or for our military leadership to inform the Congress if it believes that it does not already possess this authority. We also ask our military leadership for information on whether this bonus recoupment has spread to other states besides California. Members of our Florida National Guard have done everything our state and our country has asked of them, both here at home and abroad. I am grateful for their service and for yours. I understand that the current situation in California exists in part because the California National Guard believes that it is legally required to recoup these bonuses. I want to ensure that under no circumstances will this issue spread to Florida and that our guardsmen are able to keep every dollar and benefit they’ve earned. Sincerely, Gwen Graham ###
10.12.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla — Today Congresswoman Gwen Graham released the following statement in reaction to a federal ruling that extends Florida's voter registration deadline to Tuesday, October 18. "Voting is fundamental to our democracy and is the most important right we have as citizens. We can't let a natural disaster or partisan politics interfere with that right. I commend Judge Walker's decision to extend the deadline and encourage every Floridian to register and vote." Before the extension, Rep. Graham had joined ten of her Democratic colleagues in the House calling on Governor Rick Scott to extend the deadline. Scott declined to consider their request. Click here for more information on registering to vote or updating your information.
10.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the passage of $1.1 billion to combat the Zika virus, Representative Gwen Graham is asking the Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell to swiftly distribute funds to Florida, where they're needed most urgently. "Now that Congress has finally come together to pass funding to fight the deadly Zika virus, the administration must do everything it can to quickly distribute these funds where there's the greatest need — and Florida ranks highest on that list," Rep. Graham said. "Florida has been and will remain on the front lines of this public health emergency. There have been more than 900 reported cases of Zika in our state, more than 100 locally acquired cases, and infected mosquitos are still spreading the disease. The state and federal government must work together hand in hand to stop the spread of Zika." Rep. Graham has been a leader in the fight against Zika. She co-sponsored legislation to appropriate $1.9 billion toward Zika research, prevention and response, and she rallied more than 120 Democrats onto a letter calling for a vote on full funding to fight the deadly virus. A full copy of her letter to Secretary Burwell is copied below: September 29, 2016 The Honorable Sylvia Burwell Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Secretary Burwell, I was pleased to join my colleagues in supporting the passage of legislation to provide $1.1 billion in critical funding to combat the Zika virus. This money will go toward essential vaccine testing and research as well as to ramp up on-the-ground defenses in affected counties and states. Moving forward, I ask that you work closely with states like Florida, where the virus has hit hardest, to ensure they receive the appropriate share of these funds. I have been briefed on the status of vaccine research, and I understand that, even under the best possible scenario, testing will not be complete until sometime in 2018. I am adamant in my support of these long-term research efforts. In the short term, however, we must ensure that the most affected states are prioritized for any funding made available for immediate response efforts. In Florida, we have more than 900 cases of Zika and counting. Among those, more than 100 were acquired locally and more than 90 cases involve pregnant women. Vector control and other local efforts have yielded some progress, but there is still much to do. Florida has been and will remain on the front lines of this public health emergency, and every effort should be made to dedicate federal resources to prevent the continued spread of this disease. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. I urge you to be prudent in your management of these critical funds and ensure that Florida is prioritized for any Zika assistance made available to states. Sincerely, Gwen Graham Member of Congress ###
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In reaction to Governor Rick Scott’s office claiming they weren’t made aware of a sinkhole dumping toxic water into Florida’s aquifer for weeks, Representative Gwen Graham is expanding a public records request to include all electronic communication concerning the sinkhole to and from the governor’s office. “I don’t know which is worse. Either Governor Rick Scott knew about the sinkhole and didn’t inform the public, or leadership at the Department of Environmental Protection is so irresponsible they didn’t alert the governor to a potential public health disaster. Both scenarios are appalling, and the people of Florida deserve full accountability,” Rep. Graham said. Department of Environmental Protection Secretary Jon Steverson was handpicked by Governor Scott and reported to be the only person he “felt was worthy of an interview.” Agriculture Commissioner Adam Putnam, Attorney General Pam Bondi and Chief Financial Officer Jeff Atwater declined the opportunity to nominate any other candidates for the position. This public records request follows a previous request Rep. Graham made to the Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) on Friday, September 23. The toxic sinkhole, now estimated to be more than 300-feet-deep, opened up in Polk County last month, but nearby residents were only alerted of the potential danger when local media exposed the incident three weeks later. Representative Graham has been a leader in Congress on protecting Florida’s environment and waters. She co-sponsored bipartisan bills to ban oil drilling off Florida’s beaches; rallied the Florida delegation to restore the Apalachicola Bay; fought against weakening water-quality standards; and opposes fracking in Florida. ###
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – After more than six months of fighting for congressional action on Zika, yesterday Congresswoman Gwen Graham voted for $1.1 billion in funding to fight the deadly virus. The bipartisan legislation passed by a vote of 342-85. “The Florida delegation’s vigorous fight for funding to fight Zika has finally paid off. This legislation will go a long way toward researching the disease, preventing the spread of Zika, and responding in affected areas,” Rep. Graham said. “But our fight isn’t over. We must ensure the federal government and state work together to appropriate these resources as effectively as possible.” Rep. Graham first called for funding to fight Zika in April and rallied congressional Democrats to support funding. The Zika measures were part of a larger bill which also funded Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, which specifically strengthens monthly reporting on progress to reduce the veterans disability claims backlog. The House also passed the Water Resources Development Act, which included language to authorize the Central Everglades Planning Project. Rep. Graham argued for consideration of amendments to help the Apalachicola Bay, but her efforts were blocked by Republicans on the House Rules Committee. Video of Rep. Graham speaking on the House Floor in response can be viewed here. “I’m incredibly frustrated that congressional partisanship and dysfunction prevented help for the Apalachicola Bay,” Rep. Graham said. “I am, however, proud that the legislation authorizes the Central Everglades Planning Project, and I will continue fighting to restore the Apalachicola Bay, as I continue to serve Florida.” A factsheet on the Zika funding, which is now headed to the president, is below: Division B: Emergency Zika Assistance The FY2017 Continuing Resolution contains $1.1 billion for federal agencies to respond to the Zika virus in the continental United States, in U.S. territories, and in other nations. The Continuing Resolution does not include poison pill provisions that were contained in the partisan Zika conference report passed by the House of Representatives on June 23rd. o The CR does not prohibit Profamilias – Puerto Rico’s Planned Parenthood affiliate – from receiving federal funding to provide health services related to the Zika virus, including preventive services like contraception. Profamilias would be eligible for reimbursement by states and territories with funding provided through the Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund (PHSSEF) and the Maternal and Child Health program. o The CR does not include the text of the Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act of 2014, which would gut Clean Water Act permitting requirements by allowing unrestricted use of pesticides on or near waterways. The Continuing Resolution provides: o $394 million to the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) to support mosquito eradication, surveillance, laboratory testing, education & outreach, as well as to reimburse state and local public health departments. o $397 million to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) to support advanced research and development of vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics. o $141 million to support health care services – including contraceptive services and maternal and child health services – to prevent the spread of Zika. Of this amount, at least $126 million is reserved for Puerto Rico and the territories. o $145.5 million to support international health care services, including vector control activities and technologies, vaccines, diagnostics, and building up health care infrastructure. o $30 million for personnel costs for the Department of State and U.S. Agency for International Development, including evacuation and care for ill American diplomatic and development workers. ###
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following a disaster declaration by President Barack Obama, Representative Gwen Graham is asking the Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator (FEMA) to extend individual assistance to Franklin, Taylor and Wakulla counties. As of today, Leon is the only county in the Second Congressional District eligible for individual assistance. “I’m working to make sure all North Florida families affected by the storm receive the aid they deserve,” Rep. Graham said. “While some rural counties are still under federal review, I’m hopeful FEMA will expedite our request to expand the decleration to Franklin, Taylor and Wakulla.” Earlier in the day, Rep. Graham issued the following statement in reaction to the president’s disaster declaration: “I thank President Obama for recognizing the impact Hurricane Hermine had on North Florida. Our community rallied together to help each other through the storm and its aftermath – and the federal assistance stemming from this declaration will help us continue to recover,” Representative Graham said. “I’ve made constituent services a top priority since day one, and my office is prepared to help North Florida families and businesses cut through any red tape to access this new aid.” Text of Representative Graham’s letter to FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate is below: September 28, 2016 The Honorable W. Craig Fugate Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street, SW Washington, DC 20024 Dear Administrator Fugate: I write today regarding the recent issuance of a major disaster declaration for the State of Florida triggering the release of federal funds to help people and communities recover from Hurricane Hermine that occurred August 31 to September 11, 2016. In addition to the counties included in the initial September 28 declaration, Governor Rick Scott included Franklin, Taylor, and Wakulla counties for individual assistance. As you continue to make designations for all affected counties, I encourage you to expedite these requests so that people can get the assistance they need. Floridians are still cleaning up from this disaster – people in counties that were included in the initial designation and those in counties still under federal review. It is important to all of us that all designations are made as quickly as possible. Thank you for your commitment to get this done. Sincerely, Gwen Graham ###
09.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham released the following statement in reaction to Governor Rick Scott’s announcement to change public notification laws in the wake of pollution incidents: “I applaud the governor for recognizing the state made a huge mistake in keeping this toxic sinkhole secret from the public. I still believe there must be a full investigation – not just into the cause of the sinkhole – but into the state’s response and why they attempted to cover up the incident for weeks. Sunshine is the best disinfectant, and Florida families deserve full transparency when their health is at risk.” Gov. Scott announced the new notification directive after repeated calls from Rep. Graham for greater transparency and a public records request into the Department of Environmental Protection’s response to the sinkhole. ###
09.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a public records request sent today, Representative Gwen Graham is requesting the Florida Department of Environmental Protection turn over all electronic communication relating to a 300-foot-deep toxic sinkhole in Central Florida. Representative Graham’s public records inquiry follows repeated requests for more information on when DEP informed the public of the sinkhole and calls for the department to conduct an investigation into their delayed response. “Our office has repeatedly asked the Department of Environmental Protection when exactly they began to notify the public of the 300-foot-deep toxic sinkhole in Central Florida, and they have not yet answered this simple question,” Representative Graham said. “I’m hopeful this public records request will show the date on which the department notified the public of the sinkhole and why they made the decision to keep it secret for so long.” The 300-foot-deep toxic sinkhole opened up in Polk County last month, but reports indicate nearby residents were only alerted of the potential danger when local media exposed the incident, three weeks later. The press has called the DEP’s secrecy a ‘crater cover-up,’ and when asked about the department’s response, Deputy Secretary Gary Clark laughed it off. “The health and safety of Florida’s families is no laughing matter. A giant toxic sinkhole is no laughing matter. Government transparency is no laughing matter,” Representative Graham said. “I expect this request to turn over a large amount of communication regarding the sinkhole – if not, the DEP isn’t taking this issue seriously or the administration is again trying to skirt our state’s Sunshine Laws.” Representative Graham has been a leader in Congress on protecting Florida’s environment and waters. She co-sponsored bipartisan bills to ban oil drilling off Florida’s beaches; rallied the Florida delegation to restore the Apalachicola Bay; fought against weakening water-quality standards; and opposes fracking in Florida. ###
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter to Florida Department of Environmental Protection Secretary Jonathan Steverson, Representative Gwen Graham is criticizing the agency for failing to alert surrounding communities of a toxic sinkhole, and calling on the DEP to use all means available to protect Florida families and the environment from a potential health crisis. “I was extremely disappointed to learn the Department of Environmental Protection had known about this toxic sinkhole for almost a month before taking measures to alert the public. The DEP should warn Florida families of potential contamination before they’re drinking toxic water, not after it’s been contaminated,” Rep. Graham said. “Their excuse for inaction – that they weren’t legally required to do so – is appalling. It’s an excuse we should expect from a special interest group – not from a group whose only interest should be protecting Florida’s environment and citizens.” The 300-foot-deep toxic sinkhole opened up in Polk County last month, but nearby residents were only alerted of the potential danger when local media reported on the incident, three weeks later. “This failure is just the latest example in an alarming pattern of the state placing polluting special interests ahead of the environment and communities they’re charged with protecting,” Rep. Graham said. “I hope they will quickly change course and use all resources available to remedy this immediate threat, and in the future work with greater transparency and respect for the public.” Rep. Graham has been a leader in Congress on protecting Florida’s environment and waters. She’s co-sponsored bipartisan bills to ban oil drilling off Florida’s beaches; rallied the Florida delegation to restore the Apalachicola Bay; fought against weakening water-quality standards; and opposes fracking in Florida. A full copy of Representative Graham's letter is copied, below: Dear Secretary Steverson: I was troubled to learn that the public was not immediately notified about possible groundwater contamination from more than 200 million gallons of industrial waste leaked into a sinkhole at a Mosaic phosphate plant in Polk County. Given the potential consequences, I urge you to conduct a full investigation into the circumstances surrounding the leak and to ensure the site is fully remediated to prevent long term environmental and public health risks. Media has reported that the leak was discovered by plant personnel and reported to county, state and federal officials nearly a month ago. Yet, most of the general public did not become aware of the potential problem until it was reported by the press last Friday, September 16. Your office claims to have followed notification requirements prescribed by current law, but I believe the Department of Environmental Protection has a greater responsibility to the public. When public health is at risk, the state has a duty to notify nearby residents as soon as possible and before their wells are polluted so they can take appropriate action. I urge you to exercise your full ability to investigate the causes of and response to the leak by public and private stakeholders. If this was purely an unforeseen natural event, we may still be able to take action to prevent future incidents. If this leak was inadvertently man-made, we need to know that so we can keep it from happening again. If there was mismanagement either before or after the fact, we need to hold the responsible parties accountable. Only a thorough and timely investigation can answer these questions. Most importantly, we need to do everything we can to clean up the damage that has been done. The substances reported to have leaked from the site are potentially harmful to people and the environment. Given the enormous size of the leak, I expect this remediation to be a substantial undertaking, but it is essential. As we have learned from the contamination of Florida springs and pollution in the Everglades, the hydrology of Florida is uniquely connected. All Floridians are heavily invested in this clean up. Please use your authority to make sure it is done thoroughly and completely. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Please let me know if I can be of any assistance to you. Sincerely, Gwen Graham ###
09.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham released the following statement on Governor Rick Scott’s request for federal disaster assistance to help with the recovery of Hurricane Hermine. “Hurricane Hermine was the greatest natural disaster our region has faced in a generation. I fully support Governor Rick Scott’s request for federal assistance and renew my call on President Obama to quickly approve all available and applicable help for North Florida,” Representative Graham said. “North Florida families are as strong as they come and we will recover from this storm. I’m hopeful the state and federal government will work together, as neighbors worked together after the storm, to best serve the constituents we represent.” In the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Hermine, Rep. Graham wrote President Obama asking him to quickly approve any requests for federal disaster assistance. Click here to view her letter. ###
09.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Emergency Citrus Disease Response Act, legislation co-sponsored by Representative Gwen Graham that would allow citrus growers to deduct the cost of replacing lost or damaged citrus plants from their taxes through the year 2025. The citrus industry has been battling greening since 2005. The disease has already caused $7.8 billion in economic losses and eliminated and more than 7,500 jobs between 2006 to 2014, according to a University of Florida study. Rep. Graham is one of just two Florida members serving on the House Agriculture Committee. She’s made Florida Farmers a top priority and has brought the USDA’s StrikeForce program to the state, performed Workdays alongside farmers and conducted a 14-county farm tour. ###
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham is applauding the Coast Guard’s decision to award their Phase II offshore patrol cutter (OPC) contract to Panama City-based Eastern Shipbuilding. The initial award is worth $110.29 million and covers design and production of up to nine OPCs. Construction of the vessel is to begin in 2018. If the all options are exercised, the contract has a potential value of $2.38 billion; the total program value for OPC production exceeds $10 billion and extends beyond 2030. “North Florida already plays an important role in our country’s national defense – and with the award of this project our role just became even more significant. Building the new generation of Coast Guard cutters in Panama City could lead to billions of dollars invested in our community and the creation of thousands of jobs in our state,” Rep. Graham said. “I congratulate Eastern Shipbuilding and their employees on all the hard work they’ve done to earn this project, and I look forward to continuing to work with them to create jobs, grow our state’s economy and strengthen our security.” Since entering office, Rep. Graham has worked closely with the Coast Guard and Eastern Shipbuilding to advocate for OPC construction to be based in North Florida, including personally meeting with Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Paul Zukunft, and building support among her colleagues in Congress. “The offshore patrol cutter acquisition is the Coast Guard’s highest investment priority, and we are proud to announce this important milestone,” said Coast Guard Commandant Adm. Paul Zukunft. “The offshore patrol cutter will replace our aging medium endurance cutters and provide the majority of offshore presence by the Coast Guard’s cutter fleet. Whether combating transnational organized criminal networks off Central America or patrolling in the increasingly accessible Arctic, the offshore patrol cutter will ensure our nation’s maritime security and economic interests are preserved for decades to come.” The USCG will acquire 25 Offshore Patrol Cutters to replace the aging fleet of medium endurance cutters that are quickly approaching end-of-life. Many have been in service for more than 40 years. The OPC is a next-generation ship that will complement the Coast Guard’s current and future fleet and extend the service’s operational capabilities. The OPC will feature increased range and endurance, more powerful weapons, a larger flight deck, and improved electronics. The OPC will accommodate aircraft and small boat operations in severe weather. Eastern Shipbuilding is a family-owned company that has been in Bay County for over 40 years and employees more than 1,500 workers. Since 2002, the company has delivered 149 out of 150 ships on time and on budget. ###
09.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Representative Gwen Graham joined a bipartisan group of Florida legislators in calling on Congress to pass a clean Zika funding bill, and also called on Governor Scott to join them in supporting nonpartisan legislation to fight the deadly virus. “I’m proud to see so many members of Florida’s congressional delegation put politics aside to unite behind what’s best for our state. Now it’s time for the entire Congress to follow our lead,” Rep. Graham said. “The reality is Zika could take years to beat. Meanwhile, Congress has now waited 203 days to act on the president’s request for funding. That’s 203 days of the virus spreading. We can’t afford to wait one more day in Florida.” Also speaking at the press conference were Senator Bill Nelson, and Reps. Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Curt Clawson (FL-19), Patrick Murphy (FL-18), David Jolly (FL-13), Carlos Curbelo (Fl-26) and Debbie Wasserman-Shultz (FL-23), and Alan Grayson (FL-09). Rep. Graham also co-signed a bipartisan letter led by Rep. Wasserman Shultz to Governor Rick Scott calling on him to publicly support a clean Zika supplemental funding bill with no strings attached. House Republican leadership is currently supporting Zika legislation that also included partisan poison pills to defund health services for women and limit access to family planning. “Florida is on the front line fighting Zika. Rick Scott must put politics aside and call on his Republican colleagues in leadership to allow a vote on nonpartisan legislation to fight the deadly virus. There are enough Democrats and moderate Republicans in Congress to pass a clean bill – if they’ll just allow a vote. The virus is spreading – it’s time to end the games and pass a bill.” The letter was signed by Reps. Graham, Debbie Wasserman-Shultz (FL-23), Ileana Ros Lehtinen (FL-27) , Ted Deutch (FL-21), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Lois Frankel (FL-22), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Patrick Murphy (FL-18) and Frederica Wilson (FL-24). Full text of the letter is copied below: September 13, 2016 Governor Rick Scott State of Florida The Capitol 400 S. Monroe St. Tallahassee, FL 32399-0001 Dear Governor Scott: As Members of Congress representing Florida, we urge you to call on Congress to pass a clean Zika supplemental funding bill. Floridians have overcome partisan politics and have stood as a united front against the spread of Zika, and we are asking you to continue this bipartisanship by urging Congressional leadership to provide the funding the President requested. The stakes are too high to allow partisan riders to hold up this critical support, and existing funding is set to run out by the end of this month. The Director of the Centers for Disease Control, Dr. Tom Frieden, stated in no uncertain terms that researchers are dangerously close to running out of money, and that medically, it is unethical for them to begin clinical trials without knowing they can fully complete them. Without increased and sustained funding, Dr. Frieden will have to order researchers to stop before they can identify and test a vaccine. There are over 300 cases of Zika in Broward and Miami-Dade Counties, 84 of which involve pregnant women. For pregnant mothers in areas with Zika, not knowing whether one mosquito bite will dramatically alter their unborn child’s life is a daily fear, especially in South Florida, where mosquitos are year-round inhabitants. The time to pass a clean funding bill is long overdue. The crisis is no longer on our doorstep – it is now in the homes of too many Floridians and Americans. We hope you will join us in our bipartisan fight for a clean funding bill that will help prevent the spread of the Zika virus and protect the wellbeing of our constituents. ###
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Gwen Graham released the following statement on Sunday, September 11th, applauding the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, which passed the House on Friday. "For years, my father has been fighting on behalf of those who lost their lives on September 11th, 2001, and their families for justice. I'm proud to help carry on that fight for justice by co-sponsoring the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act," Representative Graham said. "This legislation sends a clear message that we will not allow any country to support terrorism against Americans." The Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, or JASTA provides a legal mechanism for victims and their families to sue foreign nations if an agent of that foreign government played a part in an act of international terrorism. The legislation has passed both chambers of Congress and will head to the president for his signature. Thousands of families have waited years for legal framework to pursue actions against possible state sponsors behind the September 11th attacks.
09.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Representative Gwen Graham joined a bipartisan group of Florida representatives speaking on the House Floor, Thursday, calling on Speaker Paul Ryan to bring a clean Zika bill up for a vote. "I’m proud to say we’re working hard to stop the spread of Zika in Florida. Florida State University is researching the virus and making important breakthroughs. Local municipalities are spraying. And ordinary people are dumping standing water out of their yard," Rep. Graham said. "We’re doing our part in Florida — now it’s time for Congress to do theirs!" Click Here for Video of Rep. Graham's Floor Speech On Wednesday, Graham also joined Florida Republicans and Democrats in sending a letter to Speaker Ryan and congressional leadership with the same request for full funding to fight the virus. "Our delegation has shown that Republicans and Democrats can come together on this issue — and I believe this entire Congress can, as well," she said on the floor. Rep. Graham has been a leader in the fight against Zika. She has co-sponsored legislation to appropriate $1.9 billion toward Zika research, prevention and response; called on the NIH to take extraordinary measures to fund vaccine research; and she rallied more than 120 Democrats onto a letter calling for a vote on full funding to fight the deadly virus. ###
09.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Gwen Graham is repeating her calls for Congress to take up and pass a clean funding bill to combat Zika — this time in a letter to House and Senate leadership with a bipartisan group of Florida lawmakers. "In the wake of Hurricane Hermine, it's more important than ever that we fight the spread of Zika across our state," Representative Graham said. "Members of the Florida delegation have come together to call for full funding to fight the deadly virus — now it's time for congressional leadership to put politics aside and follow our example." It has been seven months since the President put forward a $1.9 billion emergency funding request, and Congress has yet to send him a bill to sign to address this growing public health crisis. The letter calling for a vote is addressed to leadership of both parties in the House and Senate, and led by Rep. Patrick Murphy (FL-18) with cosigning Representatives Graham, David Jolly (FL-13), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Dennis Ross (FL-15), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23). Rep. Graham has been a leader in the fight against Zika. She has co-sponsored legislation to appropriate $1.9 billion toward Zika research, prevention and response; called on the NIH to take extraordinary measures to fund vaccine research; and she previously rallied more than 120 Democrats onto a letter calling for a vote on full funding to fight the deadly virus. Please find the full text of the letter below: September 8, 2016 Dear Speaker Ryan, Leader Pelosi, Leader McConnell, and Leader Reid: As Members of the Florida delegation, it is our hope that Congress take immediate action to pass emergency funding to combat the Zika virus. Seven months have passed since the Administration submitted its $1.9 billion request for Zika response efforts, and nearly four months since initial legislative action in the House. Emergency funding is needed now for vital vaccine research and diagnostic development, mosquito surveillance and control efforts, and education initiatives to warn of the serious risk the virus poses, particularly for fetal development in pregnant women. In that time, the virus has taken hold in the continental United States, hitting our home state of Florida especially hard. To date, more than 16,000 Americans have been infected with the Zika virus, of which more than 1,600 are pregnant women. The spread of this disease has now resulted in 17 babies being born in the U.S. with Zika-related birth defects. With federal funding for Zika response set to expire at the end of the Fiscal Year, Congress’ continued failure to act will halt federally funded vaccine research, mosquito control, testing, and surveillance. Our most fundamental responsibility is protecting the health and safety of Americans. Please present a clean funding package to fight the Zika virus as soon as possible. ###
09.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — As North Florida recovers from Hurricane Hermine, Representative Gwen Graham has sent a letter to President Barack Obama asking him to quickly approve any request from the state for federal disaster assistance. "Hurricane Hermine and subsequent flooding have caused more damage than North Florida has seen in a generation," Representative Graham said. "We need all hands on deck to help Florida families recover. I hope the president will quickly approve any request by the governor for federal assistance." Representative Graham sent the letter in advance of the state's likely request for federal assistance to bolster their effort with bipartisan support. State and federal officials are in the process of assessing damages from the category one storm. Representative Graham has been in communication with state and federal officials since the storm was predicted to hit Tallahassee. Throughout the storm and in the recovery effort, she has been updating constituents on social media, supporting local response efforts and volunteering with the Red Cross and Salvation Army. A full copy of Representative Graham's letter is attached and the text is copied, below: Dear Mr. President: Hurricane Hermine wreaked substantial damage to private property and public infrastructure in and around my North Florida Congressional district. As of this morning, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is working with the State of Florida on damage assessments to determine whether federal assistance is warranted. After spending the last several days visiting with people affected by the storm and being briefed by emergency response officials, I strongly believe that federal assistance is necessary. If Governor Rick Scott makes a request for assistance, I urge you to expeditiously approve that request and focus all appropriate federal resources to help local and state officials with the recovery. Your timely response will help affected citizens and communities get back on their feet as quickly as possible. The parts of North Florida which received the brunt of this hurricane are unique to our state and nation. The path of the storm significantly impacted the Florida state capital of Tallahassee and the surrounding "Big Bend" region, an area which had not experienced tropical weather of this magnitude in more than three decades. Communities to the west and southeast of Tallahassee were also affected by Hurricane Hermine. This includes the Forgotten and Nature Coasts -- a series of coastal communities on the Gulf of Mexico known for their unspoiled shoreline, pristine natural estuaries, and traditional fishing communities which were fighting for economic survival even before the storm hit. We have citizens throughout North Florida who have lost their homes and livelihoods and are still without essential services. They need our help, and they need it now. Although the storm has passed, we must not lose the urgency to help families and communities recover from Hurricane Hermine. Thank you in advance for expediting federal assistance once requested. Sincerely, Gwen Graham Member of Congress ###
08.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham is inviting North Florida students interested in attending our nation’s military academies to Military Academy Days to learn more about the schools and application process. The Military Academy Days will be held in Panama City on August 23 and in Tallahassee on August 25. “There is no greater honor than serving in our nation’s military,” Rep. Graham said. “Our military academies educate and train the smartest service members in the world. I encourage all students in North Florida to attend the Military Academy Days and learn more about these exceptional schools.” The five military academies are the United States Military Academy at West Point; the United States Coast Guard Academy at New London; the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis; the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point; and the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Students aspiring to attend a military academy must receive a nomination from their representative, senator or by applying directly to the vice president (with the exception of the Coast Guard Academy). Last year, Rep. Graham nominated 11 students from North Florida to attend the academies. Rep. Graham will attend both Academy Days to speak with students about the importance of serving in our military, and representatives from the academies will be on hand with more information about the schools. Students interested in learning more or requesting an academy nomination can also visit www.Graham.House.gov/academy, and we encourage your outlets to publish the attached informational flyer. WHAT: Military Academy Days WHO: Rep. Gwen Graham; Representatives from military academies WHERE/WHEN: PANAMA CITY – Bay County Government Building – August 23, 5:00 pm TALLAHASSEE - City Hall – August 25, 5:00 pm ###
08.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham announced she is cosponsoring legislation to ban members of Congress from ever becoming federal lobbyists. “The revolving door from Congress to K street represents everything wrong with Washington. Members of Congress shouldn’t use their time in office as a taxpayer-funded class in learning to lobby,” Representative Graham said. “We need to restore the public’s faith in government, and that starts by restoring their trust in public officials.” According to Open Secrets, more than 430 former members of Congress have become lobbyists (or “senior advisors” performing similar work). Currently, there is a one-year ban on former members of the House, and a two-year ban on former members of the Senate from registering as lobbyists. H.R. 929 would extend those bans for life. “Public service is about making our country better – not making your own wallet fatter,” Rep. Graham said. “Whether you served two years or twenty years, whether you’re a Democrat or a Republican, you shouldn’t trade in the public’s trust for a paycheck.” Rep. Graham has been a leader in fighting to clean up Washington and end Congressional perks. One of her first pieces of legislation was the Congressional Travel Perks Elimination Act to ban members of Congress from flying first class, and she sponsored the Shutdown Prevention Act to withhold pay from members of Congress if they don’t pass a budget. ###
08.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As the National Institutes of Health (NIH) runs out of existing funds for Zika research, Representative Gwen Graham is joining Florida Democrats in asking the NIH to take extraordinary measures and divert funding from existing research to fight the Zika virus. The NIH has been operating within their normal budget and previously unspent Ebola funding to study the Zika virus, but those emergency funds are quickly running out – forcing the NIH to now divert funding from other important research projects or cease Zika studies. NIH funding contributed to an important Zika breakthrough at Florida State University, in March. “By ignoring the president’s request for full funding to fight the Zika virus, Republicans in Congress are forcing the National Institutes of Health to choose between existing lifesaving research and combating this urgent threat,” Rep. Graham said. “This year, the NIH is funding more than $20 million in research at FSU and FAMU. It’s shameful we may have to ask Florida universities to suspend their research because Congress won’t pass the full funding necessary to address the Zika emergency.” The letter, sent to Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell, was signed by Graham, Senator Bill Nelson, and Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) Reps. Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Patrick Murphy (FL-18), Ted Deutch (FL-22) and Alan Grayson (FL-09). In it they wrote: “We recognize that any options that involve moving resources from other parts of your budget require raiding other vital work that is being done at your Department. And, for this reason, we would only recommend this type of extraordinary step if there were no other choice. Unfortunately, the Republican Congress has left you no other options.” Rep. Graham added, “We must do everything we can to prevent Zika from further spreading across Florida and our country. That means immediate operations, like aggressive mosquito control, and working toward the long term solution of developing a Zika vaccine. The NIH’s funding is essential to vaccine research, and Congress must act to support their mission.” Rep. Graham has been a leader in the fight against Zika. She has co-sponsored legislation to appropriate $1.9 billion toward Zika research, prevention and response, and she rallied more than 120 Democrats onto a letter calling for a vote on full funding to fight the deadly virus. ###
08.03.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Wednesday, August 3, 2016 Contact: Matt Harringer, Communications Director WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham joined a bipartisan coalition of Florida representatives asking the Center for Disease Control and Prevention to reconsider their current allocation formula for new Zika-specific funds. Currently, $16 million of new CDC funding for detecting and monitoring microcephaly is being divided between 40 states and territories. Florida will receive $720,000, or just 4.5 percent of the funding. “Florida is on the front lines fighting the Zika virus, and we need all the help we can get,” Rep. Graham said. “We’ve had more than 300 reported cases – and we’re the only state dealing with local transmission. We’ve had much more than four percent of reported cases, and we need more than four percent of funding to protect Florida families,” Rep. Graham said. Rep. Graham has been a leader in the fight against Zika. She has co-sponsored legislation to appropriate $1.9 billion toward Zika research, prevention and response, and she rallied more than 120 Democrats onto a letter calling for a vote on full funding to fight the deadly virus.
07.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Florida’s Environmental Regulation Commission voted to allow higher limits for more than two dozen cancer causing chemicals in Florida’s drinking water. The vote followed hours of public testimony from Floridians across the state, who overwhelmingly asked the commission to vote against the new standards. Representative Graham released the following statement in reaction to the vote: "Lowering our water quality standards while our lakes, springs, rivers and coasts are turning green is insulting. Allowing more cancer causing chemicals after the disaster in Flint is unconscionable. Floridians from across the state traveled to Tallahassee to express those concerns, today, and the Environmental Regulation Commission ignored them. Governor Rick Scott is ignoring them. They're not just out of touch — they're completely disregarding the will of the people they represent." Representative Graham has been a leader on this issue, opposing the lower standards in a letter to the Department of Environmental Protection’s secretary, Jon Steverson, in June, and having her opposition officially read into the record at today’s hearing. Today’s vote was moved up from the commission’s previously planned meeting in “early fall” for no apparent reason, and held while two seats on the commission, the environmental and local government seats, sit empty. Former Governor Bob Graham and 50 environmental groups have asked Governor Scott to fill the vacancies, but he has ignored their request. ###
07.22.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Friday, July 22, 2016 Contact: Matt Harringer, Communications Director TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham met with law enforcement, teachers, parents and students at City Hall to discuss making our schools safer, and she announced new legislation to meet that goal. Rep. Graham’s legislation, the Secure our Schools Act, would authorize the Department of Justice to issue grants to local school districts to install “SOS buttons” in classrooms. These buttons provide an alternative and immediate means of notifying law enforcement and first responders in case of an emergency. Representative Graham attributed her motivation for the legislation to recent tragedies around the country and abroad: “In recent years, we’ve seen far too many heartbreaking and shocking episodes of violence. We must work together to make our country and Florida safer. This legislation will help better secure our schools from violence and potential acts of terrorism.” Leon County Sheriff Mike Wood said, “The safety and security of our children is paramount. It is a privilege to be part of the discussion with Representative Graham on this relevant and necessary legislation." Several panelist at the roundtable said this technology could especially be helpful for Florida’s rural schools, where there are less law enforcement tasked with covering a greater amount of area. “We need to make sure every student is safe, whether they live in a city or in rural areas,” Rep. Graham said. “This legislation will help schools and law enforcement communicate better in every community.” “When my daughter is at school, I want to know that she is safe and protected,” said Adam Montgomery, a local parent in attendance. "I’m proud of Congresswoman Graham for introducing the S.O.S. button legislation; this technology is a great step in school safety.” Students from FSU’s Master in Applied American Politics program helped plan and carry out the event. Student Vanessa Butwell said the roundtable was informative. “It was powerful to watch Rep. Graham sit down with her constituents and listen to their concerns on such an important issue. This is how you lead, by listening.” The bipartisan legislation is co-sponsored by Rep. Mike Boast (R-IL). ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Representative Gwen Graham is firing back at Governor Rick Scott, demanding his administration begin taking immediate action to address the ongoing algae crisis in South Florida. Rep. Graham, responding to a letter the governor sent to Florida's congressional delegation, criticized Scott for focusing blame on President Barack Obama, instead of focusing on the actual issue, protecting Florida's environment. (Click here for a copy of the full letter.) "I've spoken with the Indian Riverkeeper, Martin County business owners and scientists — and not one of them has blamed the president for this crisis," Graham wrote. "In fact, many of them are frustrated with our state government and hungry for you to exhibit leadership on this issue." Representative Graham went on to offer four additional solutions, in addition to strengthening the Hoover Dike, that the governor could take action on now to begin addressing the algae crisis: Call the legislature into a special session focused on environmental solutions Replace South Florida Water Management District political appointees with actual scientists Replace and repair failing septic tanks Use Amendment One funds how they were intended, and buy land south of Lake Okeechobee Graham wrote that if Scott did not act, he would be remembered as the "first governor in modern times, Republican or Democrat, who actively worked to harm the environment" — and she ended her letter by offering to work with Rick Scott and any other Florida leaders to protect our environment. ###
07.06.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Representative Gwen Graham is releasing a new video documenting her Meals on Wheels Workday, where she prepared and served food to North Florida seniors. On the Workday, Representative Graham also announced new legislation to protect seniors from fraud and abuse. The proposed bill made headlines in news outlets across the state: Consumer Affairs.com, Jackson County Floridian, The Tallahassee Democrat, WFSU-Tallahassee, WTXL-Tallahassee, WCTV-Tallahassee, WJHG-Panama City, WJCB-Gainesville, WINK-Ft. MYERS, WBBH-Fort Myers, WTVT-Tampa, WPTV-WPB, and WESH-Orlando. ###
07.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ahead of the Fourth of July holiday, Representative Gwen Graham has announced she’s cosponsoring legislation to require the federal government only purchase and use American flags made in America. “There’s no better time than the Fourth of July to remind us how important the American Flag is to our nation,” Representative Graham said. “This commonsense, bipartisan legislation would require the federal government only purchase American flags made in America. It’s the right thing to do to honor the founding fathers who declared our independence and all those who have fought to keep it free.” According to the U.S. Department of Commerce and U.S. Census Data, in 2013 the dollar value of U.S. imports of American flags was $4 million, $3.9 million of which came from China. The bipartisan All-American Flag Act, introduced by Representative Cheri Bustos (IL-17), would require the federal government only purchases flags that contain 100 percent American-made materials entirely manufactured in the U.S.. Current law requires the federal government to purchase flags made of only 50 percent American-made materials.
06.28.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – On a Workday assisting the elderly, yesterday, Representative Gwen Graham announced she’s introducing new legislation to help protect seniors from fraud and abuse. “Florida has a reputation as the best place in America to retire. Unfortunately, that reputation is under threat by an increase in elder abuse and fraud targeting seniors,” Rep. Graham said. “We need all hands on deck working to protect vulnerable seniors – native Floridians and those moving here from across the country. These are our parents and grandparents – the greatest generation. My new legislation would create a registry to identify those who have been convicted of abusing or scamming seniors and prevent them from causing more harm.” According to the Florida Department of Children and Families, there were more than 2,500 cases of elder abuse and neglect in Florida, last year, and the state has witnessed a 74 percent increase in the past five years. Rep. Graham’s legislation would direct the Department of Justice to design a model registry that states could then use for their own registries. Registries would be public and searchable and would identify people found to have committed abuse, neglect, mistreatment, or financial exploitation of a person over the age of 65, with the intent of preventing them from being able to hurt or scam more seniors. . While some states have already implemented elder abuse registries, Florida has not yet created one. The Department of Health and Human Services would then be able to compile all the information on state registries and make it available on a national database. States could then require accredited health care providers to first check the Abuse Registry before hiring a worker. There are two ways individuals would be placed on the registry: Be convicted of abuse, neglect or fraud against a person over the age of 65. Be found, through an investigation conducted by the state, with an available appeals process, to have committed abuse, neglect, mistreatment, financial exploitation of a person over the age of 65. Rep. Graham announced the legislation on a Workday preparing and delivering meals to seniors with Elder Care Services of Tallahassee. For photos of the Workday, click here. Rep. Graham is following up the legislative announcement with a Seminar on Stopping Scams Against Seniors at the Tallahassee American Legion Hall, today, June 28 at 1:30 p.m. ET. ###
06.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham joined Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Miami) and Mario Díaz-Balart (R-Miami), for a briefing at Homestead Air ReserveBase and a ribbon cutting ceremony at a VA outpatient clinic. “I appreciate Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen inviting me to learn more about Homestead Air Reerve Base and the Department of Veterans Affairs’ operations in South Florida,” Rep. Graham said. “I believe the Florida delegation is strongest when we put party politics aside and focus on what’s best for our state.” Rep. Graham is one of three Florida members and the only Florida Democrat to sit on the House Armed Services Committee. Earlier this month, Rep. Graham and Rep. Ros-Lehtinen authored a letter requesting the Air Force house its new F-35 Joint Strike Fighter Jets at Homestead Air Force Base. “Florida military installations account for more than 750,000 jobs and contribute $73 billion to our economy – that’s more than nine percent of the state’s economic footprint. Expanding the Air Force’s presence with the F-35 is a smart move for the defense of our nation, and it will create jobs and grow our economy,” Rep. Graham said. Following the Air Reserve base tour, the congressional pair attended a Veterans Affairs ribbon cutting for a new physical medicine and rehab space at the Homestead VA Outpatient Clinic. Representative Graham thanked the clinic's medical staff for their service and spoke about how important it is to care for our veterans. “We owe our freedom to those who risked their lives to defend our country,” Rep. Graham said. “Representing Florida on the House Armed Services Committee, I’m dedicated to ensuring we are taking care of service members in the military and as they transfer into veteran status.” ###
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham joined Representative Mike Thompson (CA-5) as an original co-sponsor of H.R. 5504, the House version of Senator Nelson’s bill to require that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) be notified when individuals who have been have investigated for terrorism attempt to purchase firearms or explosives. “In the wake of the horrific terrorist attack against the LGBT community in Orlando, Floridians from across our state are demanding change. There is no one answer to solve the problem of gun violence in America – but that doesn’t mean Congress shouldn’t try to make our streets safer, to save lives, to prevent another tragedy like the Pulse shooting.” Rep. Graham said. “This is commonsense legislation that will help prevent suspected terrorists from attacking Americans, without infringing on the rights of law abiding citizens. I applaud Senator Nelson for his leadership on this issue, and I’m proud to join him in this effort.” Specifically, this legislation requires that any individual who is, or who has been, under a terrorism investigation be entered into the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). NICS is the national database used to determine whether a prospective buyer is eligible to purchase a firearm. The bill would further require that the NICS system automatically notify the FBI should a background check be conducted for such an individual. “We need to make sure that those responsible for our country’s security have all the information they need to help keep Americans safe,” Rep. Thompson said. “By alerting the FBI when individuals formerly under a terrorism investigation purchase guns or explosives, the FBI can determine if there is new cause for concern, and hopefully, intervene before tragedy strikes.” Currently, not only can individuals on the FBI’s Terrorists Watchlist pass a background check and legally purchase guns, but the FBI is not notified when individuals formerly under investigation for ties to terrorism purchase firearms or explosives. Graham has also co-sponsored legislation to prohibit those on the FBI’s Terrorists Watchlist from purchasing firearms and to close the “gun show loophole” which allows guns to be sold over the internet, in classified ads and at gunshows without a background check. Omar Mateen, the gunman responsible for the mass shooting in Orlando, had been removed from the FBI’s Terrorists Watchlist before he legally purchased the two firearms he used in the attack. H.R. 5504 is the House companion to identical legislation introduced in the Senate by Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL). H.R. 5504 has 4 original cosponsors, including Reps. Gwen Graham (D-FL), Patrick Murphy, Elizabeth Esty (D-CT) and Alan Grayson (D-FL). ###
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – To celebrate Flag Day, Representative Gwen Graham is donating four American flags to the town of Wausau, Florida, which recently had several flags stolen from its Memorial Day display. The donated flags were flown over the Capitol, at Representative Graham’s request, to recognize Wausau and Washington County’s contributions to our nation’s military. “I’m so proud every time I see an American flag waving on a government building, front porch or small town street,” Rep. Graham said. “When I read about the stolen flags, I wanted to turn this negative story into a positive one. It’s an honor to recognize Wausau and Washington County for their patriotism and contributions to our nation’s military.” When he learned of Rep. Graham’s planned donation, Wausau Mayor B. J. Phillips said, “After speaking with Representative Graham and learning these flags would be flown over the Capitol, it’s a great honor for the town of Wausau to receive them. We’ll place the flags in a place of prominence as a reminder of our patriotism.” The Flags will be presented to the mayor at 7:30 a.m. ct, Thursday, at the Washington County Chamber of Commerce meeting. ###
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham sent a letter to Florida’s Department of Environmental Protection voicing her concerns over its plan to lower the state’s water standards. “The Department of Environmental Protection should be working to protect our waters, not making it easier to pollute them,” Rep. Graham said. “In Florida, our lakes, rivers, springs and coastal waters aren’t just vital for a healthy ecology and economy – they’re essential to our very way of life.” The Tallahassee Democrat has reported the Florida DEP is in the process of updating its water-quality standards for the first time since 1992, and the state wants to weaken standards on about two dozen cancer-causing chemicals. Many environmental groups and constituents have expressed concern that the state is specifically proposing higher limits for benzene, a carcinogen used in fracking, to pave the way for the unconventional drilling technique in Florida. “My constituents, Republican and Democrat, have overwhelmingly come out against fracking in North Florida,” Rep. Graham said. “Our aquifer is unlike anywhere else in the country – and we don’t know how fracking could pollute it. It’s not worth the risk, and I’m going to do everything I can to fight fracking in Florida.” Eleven of the fourteen counties in the Second Congressional District have voted in some form against fracking. Since joining Congress, Representative Graham has been a champion for Florida waters, fighting to restore the Apalachicola Bay and to ban drilling off Florida’s beaches. Click here for a PDF copy of the letter to DEP Secretary Steverson: Dear Secretary Steverson, I write to you today to voice my strong opposition to the proposed changes to lower Florida’s water quality standards. I am concerned that weakening restrictions on toxic chemicals in Florida’s surface waters, as proposed by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, will negatively impact the overall quality of our state’s waters, as well as hurt many Floridians whose livelihoods depend on these waters. I urge you to heed our concerns and reconsider these proposed changes. As we’ve recently witnessed in Flint, Michigan, a community’s health is closely tied to its water quality. In Florida, we’re even more dependent on our waters, where they not only serve as a source for household plumbing, but are also vital to our unique way of life. Our state’s economy is dependent on Floridians and visitors to our state having confidence to eat from and recreate in our many lakes, rivers, springs and coastal waters. I find it inconceivable that the department charged with protecting our environment would ease restrictions on dangerous chemicals that threaten the health of Florida’s waters and the people and industries that depend on them. We should be doing all we can to protect our most valuable asset, not make it easier to pollute. I also worry the proposed changes could pave the way for hydraulic fracturing in Florida. Much is still unknown about the potential negative impacts of hydraulic fracturing on our state’s unique hydrology– but it is clear that Floridians oppose expanding such risky drilling practices in our state. Water quality standards are meant to protect against such harmful practices, and we must ensure such protections remain in place. Contamination of our waters threatens the health of our communities, our economy and our environment. I urge you to give these concerns your full and timely consideration and to reconsider any proposal that would weaken Florida’s water quality standards. Sincerely, Gwen Graham Member of Congress ###
06.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham is continuing her fight to ban members of Congress from flying first class with a proposed amendment to the legislative branch appropriations bill – which funds the operation of Congress. Rep. Graham’s bipartisan amendment to the legislation reads: “None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to pay the costs of first-class airline accommodations for a Member of the House of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress).” “Elected officials should fly with the constituents they represent, not in first-class luxury with glasses of Champagne,” Rep. Graham said. “If we ever expect to balance the budget and get our finances in order, Congress must lead by example. This common sense, bipartisan amendment should be supported by every member of the House.” Rep. Graham has made reforming Congress one of her top priorities. Previously she introduced the Congressional Travel Perks Elimination Act and the Shutdown Prevention Act, and Rep. Graham cut her office’s operating budget by 10 percent, all while returning more than $1.5 million to constituents in North Florida.
06.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham is working across the aisle with fellow Florida Representatives Ander Crenshaw, (R-Jacksonville) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Miami) to advocate for expanding the United States Air Force’s presence across the state. Rep. Graham, who sits on the House Armed Services Committee, sent two letters to Air Force Secretary Deborah Lee James advocating for Jacksonville and Homestead to house new F-35 Joint Strike Fighter jets. The letters were co-authored by Reps. Crenshaw and Ros-Lethinen who represent the cities’ reserve bases in Congress. “I believe we need to work together as a Congressional delegation in the best interest of our state, regardless of political party,” Rep. Graham said. “Florida military installations account for more than 750,000 jobs and contribute $73 billion to our economy – that’s more than nine percent of the state’s economic footprint. Expanding the Air Force’s presence with the F-35 is a smart move for the defense of our nation, and it will create jobs and grow our economy.” The F-35 will replace aging fighter jets, many of which date back to the 1970s. With stealth and next-generation technologies, the F-35 will be the world’s most advanced fighter. The Air Force officials announced April 12 that Homestead Air Reserve Base is among four candidate bases for the first Reserve-led F-35A Lightning II location, and Jacksonville's Air National Guard is among 18 finalists for a separate squadron of the fighter jets. A copy of the Jacksonville Letter can be viewed, here, and a copy of the Homestead letter, here. Representatives Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), Patrick Murphy (FL-18), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Curt Clawson (FL-19), David Jolly (FL-13) and Jeff Miller (FL-01) also signed onto the letter in support of Homestead ARB. ###
05.31.2016	PANAMA CITY, Fla. – Representative Gwen Graham is taking her fight against the Zika virus to the streets, battling mosquitos firsthand on a Workday with the Bay County Mosquito Control Division. “My Workday was about raising awareness around our state and country to what needs to be done now to avoid an epidemic,” Rep. Graham said. “Florida’s on the front lines in the fight against Zika. It’s time for Congress to do their job and pass full funding to fight this deadly virus.” Rep. Graham has been a leader in the fight against Zika. In Congress, she’s co-sponsored legislation to appropriate $1.9 billion toward Zika research, prevention and response, and she’s rallied more than 120 Democrats onto a letter calling for a vote on full funding to fight the deadly virus.
05.25.2016	Representative Gwen Graham successfully amended the House Energy and Water Appropriations Bill to help address water flow issues hurting the Apalachicola Bay. Rep. Graham’s amendment allocates $3 million to perform a study requested by the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint (ACF) Stakeholders, a diverse group of citizens who live and work in the ACF Basin. They’ve requested the study to research fundamental scientific and technical information that is still unknown about the ACF Basin, in order to more effectively manage this unique and vital natural resource. Click here for video of Rep. Graham passing the Apalachicola Amendment. “Despite their different interests and diverging opinions on some issues, the ACF Stakeholders have been able to agree on a number of substantial recommendations to restore the ACF Basin,” Rep. Graham said. “This study is one of those recommendations. And I’m proud, like the ACF Stakeholders, we were able to come together in Congress to pass this amendment.” In addition to successfully passing this amendment, Rep. Graham has also introduced the Apalachicola Bay Restoration Act, which would require the Army Corps of Engineers to consider fresh water flow to the Apalachicola Bay in their management plans. Rep. Graham rallied 21 members of the Florida delegation to support the bill, an unprecedented sign of unity and statewide support to save the bay. “The Apalachicola Bay is a critically important asset to Florida’s ecology, economy and heritage. I believe this amendment and the resulting study will move us a step closer toward working with the Army Corps of Engineers to recognize the needs of downstream users and restore the bay,” Rep. Graham said. ###
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham is leading a coalition of more than 120 House Democrats calling for Speaker Paul Ryan to hold a vote on fully funding $1.9 billion in emergency appropriations to fight the spread of the Zika virus. “There have already been more than 100 Zika cases reported in Florida, and as summer approaches, the situation will likely worsen,” Rep. Graham said. “Floridians can’t wait any longer – lives are at risk. It’s time for Republicans to quit stalling and end their political games. We must fully fund research, prevention and response efforts to fight this deadly virus.” More than 120 Democrats have already signed onto the letter, including all 10 Florida Democratic members of the House. In addition to leading this letter, Rep. Graham has also co-sponsored Rep. Nita Lowey’s (NY-17) legislation for $1.9 billion in funding, and two bipartisan bills introduced by Rep. Curt Clawson (FL-19) to establish a tax credit for vaccine research and development, and to reauthorize grants for a mosquito control program. Graham also delivered a floor speech calling for full funding to fight the virus in April. Text of letter and current list of cosigners copied below: The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives H-237 U.S. Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan: We write to you today to express our extreme concern over the increasing threat posed by the Zika virus. As you know, there are significant challenges associated with combating Zika, and we must act swiftly to ensure that we have all of the necessary tools at our disposal, including robust funding to support research and response efforts. That is why we support the administration’s full request of $1.9 billion in emergency appropriations to combat this international public health threat. We strongly urge you to bring such legislation to the floor. In recent months, it has become evident that we do not have a comprehensive understanding of the Zika virus—how it works and what its immediate and long-term health implications are. As it continues to spread, it is imperative that we make immediate, sustained investments in research that, hopefully, will yield a Zika vaccine, diagnostic method and guide our continued response strategy. We are encouraged by the research being done across the country, including in many of our districts, but there is still much we do not understand. Until we have these answers, we must prioritize robust funding for Zika research. Zika has spread rapidly in other parts of the world and we are seeing the same pattern here in the U.S. There are at least 503 reported cases of Zika in the U.S. to date and at least 701 reported cases in U.S. territories. Among these, pregnant women account for 113 cases. This number will continue to rise until Congress acts. Given the neonatal neurological implications of this virus, it is unconscionable to further delay action on this very critical issue. We must not underestimate just how destructive invasive pests and diseases can be. We are gravely concerned about the implications of this virus and, for this reason, research and response efforts have our full and steadfast support. We urge you to give this your full and fast consideration and ask that you bring to the floor legislation to provide $1.9 billion in emergency appropriations for Zika. Sincerely, 1 Rep. GWEN GRAHAM 2 Rep. GRACE MENG 3 Rep. JARED POLIS 4 Rep. DEBBIE DINGELL 5 Rep. PATRICK MURPHY 6 Rep. FILEMON VELA 7 Rep. SETH MOULTON 8 Rep. JOYCE BEATTY 9 Rep. AMI BERA 10 Rep. EARL BLUMENAUER 11 Rep. CHERI BUSTOS 12 Rep. KATHY CASTOR 13 Rep. KATHERINE CLARK 14 Rep. JOE COURTNEY 15 Rep. JOE CROWLEY 16 Rep. SUSAN DAVIS 17 Rep. JOHN DELANEY 18 Rep. MARK DESAULNIER 19 Rep. MIKE DOYLE 20 Rep. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM 21 Rep. DAN KILDEE 22 Rep. ANNIE KUSTER 23 Rep. JOHN LARSON 24 Rep. SANDY LEVIN 25 Rep. ZOE LOFGREN 26 Rep. DORIS MATSUI 27 Rep. JERRY MCNERNEY 28 Rep. ED PERLMUTTER 29 Rep. KATHLEEN RICE 30 Rep. BOBBY SCOTT 31 Rep. KYRSTEN SINEMA 32 Rep. MIKE THOMPSON 33 Rep. NIKI TSONGAS 34 Rep. CHRIS VAN HOLLEN 35 Rep. JUAN VARGAS 36 Rep. PETER WELCH 37 Rep. PETE AGUILAR 38 Rep. LOIS FRANKEL 39 Rep. FREDERICA WILSON 40 Rep. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA 41 Rep. DON BEYER 42 Rep. JIM COOPER 43 Rep. RAUL RUIZ 44 Rep. TONY CÁRDENAS 45 Rep. ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS 46 Rep. SUZAN DELBENE 47 Rep. JOHN GARAMENDI 48 Rep. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY 49 Rep. JIM HIMES 50 Rep. STEVE COHEN 51 Rep. NYDIA M. VELÁZQUEZ 52 Rep. TED DEUTCH 53 Rep. SUZANNE BONAMICI 54 Rep. SCOTT H. PETERS 55 Rep. STACEY E. PLASKETT 56 Rep. ERIC SWALWELL 57 Rep. CORRINE BROWN 58 Rep. YVETTE D. CLARKE 59 Rep. DONALD M. PAYNE, JR. 60 Rep. ALCEE HASTINGS 61 Rep. WATSON COLEMAN 62 Rep. MARK POCAN 63 Rep. LORETTA SANCHEZ 64 Rep. DONALD NORCROSS 65 Rep. RUBEN GALLEGO 66 Rep. JOHN LEWIS 67 Rep. BENNIE G. THOMPSON 68 Rep. BRENDAN F. BOYLE 69 Rep. LUIS V. GUTIÉRREZ 70 Rep. WILLIAM R. KEATING 71 Rep. JIM LANGEVIN 72 Rep. DAVID PRICE 73 Rep. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR. 74 Rep. TULSI GABBARD 75 Rep. DANIEL W. LIPINSKI 76 Rep. MARCIA L. FUDGE 77 Rep. DAVID SCOTT 78 Rep. HENRY CUELLAR 79 Rep. DEREK KILMER 80 Rep. ROSA DELAURO 81 Rep. JANICE SCHAKOWSKY 82 Rep. COLLIN C. PETERSON 83 Rep. TIM WALZ 84 Rep. NITA LOWEY 85 Rep. BETTY MCCOLLUM 86 Rep. JULIA BROWNLEY 87 Rep. JAMES P. MCGOVERN 88 Rep. KURT SCHRADER 89 Rep. ANNA ESHOO 90 Rep. ADAM B. SCHIFF 91 Rep. PAUL D. TONKO 92 Rep. CAROLYN ‎B. MALONEY 93 Rep. ELIOT L. ENGEL 94 Rep. SAM FARR 95 Rep. JOSEPH KENNEDY 96 Rep. ELIZABETH ESTY 97 Rep. BARBARA LEE 98 Rep. ALAN LOWENTHAL 99 Rep. DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ 100 Rep. DAVID N. CICILLINE 101 Rep. JIM COSTA 102 Rep. JARED HUFFMAN 103 Rep. ROBERT BRADY 104 Rep. CEDRIC RICHMOND 105 Rep. BRIAN HIGGINS 106 Rep. HAKEEM JEFFRIES 107 Rep. TED LIEU 108 Rep. TIM RYAN 109 Rep. CHELLIE PINGREE 110 Rep. LOUISE M. SLAUGHTER 111 Rep. JOSÉ E. SERRANO 112 Rep. LINDA T. SÁNCHEZ 113 Rep. BRENDA L. LAWRENCE 114 Rep. LOIS CAPPS 115 Rep. ALMA ADAMS 116 Rep. LLOYD DOGGETT 117 Rep. GERALD E. CONNOLLY 118 Rep. DONNA F. EDWARDS 119 Rep. AL GREEN 120 Rep. GREGORIO KILILI CAMACHO SABLAN 121 Rep. ANN KIRKPATRICK 122 Rep. JIM MCDERMOTT 123 Rep. ALAN GRAYSON ###
05.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham joined a bipartisan congressional delegation visit to Afghanistan to meet with deployed mothers in uniform and Afghan women fighting for equal rights and working to rebuild their country. “It’s difficult for anyone in our military to leave their family and serve overseas – and it can be especially hard on mothers serving in warzones,” Rep. Graham said. “It was an honor for me to meet with these brave mothers serving in Afghanistan. They deserve our respect, admiration and support.” Click here for photos of Rep. Graham’s Afghanistan visit The congressional delegation hosted a Mother’s Day luncheon where they discussed the challenges faced by deployed mothers and they delivered handmade Mother’s Day cards to troops. In addition to meeting United States Military moms, Rep. Graham also met with women serving in the Afghan Armed Forces and with Rula Ghani, the first lady of Afghanistan. “Women’s rights are human rights. We’ve seen Hillary Clinton and Laura Bush both lead on this issue, because it doesn’t matter if you’re a Republican or Democrat – we all must stand up for oppressed women around the world,” Rep. Graham said. “The Afghan women I met, including the first lady, are risking their lives to fight for a society where their daughters and granddaughters will have equal rights. I stand in solidarity with them and will do everything I can in Congress to support their fight.” Rep. Graham was in Afghanistan for two days, and joined on the visit by Representatives Martha McSally (R-AZ), Susan Davis (D-CA), and Congresswoman Martha Roby (R-AL). ###
05.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Representative Gwen Graham released a new beekeeping Workday video, in which she revealed a family secret: her father, former Senator and Governor Bob Graham, is afraid of bees. Rep. Graham learned of her father’s fear while on her North Florida Farm Tour in January. On the tour, she met Florida Agriculture Hall of Fame beekeeper Laurence Cutts, who told Rep. Graham he had invited her father on a Workday with him decades ago – but he wasn’t able to make it. Rep. Graham promised to make it up to Mr. Cutts, and on her Workday she fulfilled that promise. “I’m incredibly proud to represent our state’s beekeepers and farmers as one of just two Floridians on the House Agriculture Committee,” Rep. Graham said. “Food doesn’t just appear on our dining room tables or grocery store shelves. It takes a lot of hard work to produce everything we eat. Vital to many of those foods are bees – which thanks to North Florida beekeepers are thriving this year. On my Workday, I saw firsthand how hard our beekeepers and farmers work, and I’m dedicated to working hard for them in Congress.” ###
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a marathon House Armed Services Committee markup, lasting until 2:30 a.m., Thursday morning, Representative Gwen Graham successfully passed seven initiatives in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The biggest accomplishments include a re-employment program for veterans, a study of a Department of Defense agriculture equipment share program, and authorization to construct a new Army Reserve Center and Aviation Support Facility at MacDill Air Force Base. “It’s an incredible honor to represent the state of Florida on the House Armed Services Committee. By forming friendships and working with members on both sides of the aisle, we’ve been able to make great progress on important initiatives that will help our veterans, strengthen relationships with our allies and improve our national security,” Rep. Graham said. “I’m also proud of the amendments we passed which will grow North Florida’s economy by supporting businesses that assist our military.” Helping veterans has been a priority for Rep. Graham since day one. Her first piece of legislation introduced was the VETS Act, her office has returned more than $400,000 to North Florida veterans, and she created a program to recognize businesses that hire veterans. The re-employment amendment for veterans Graham successfully added to the NDAA stemmed from a request by Bay County economic development organizations. CareerSource Gulf Coast is currently working with local bases to collect de-personalized data related to the skills and professional experience of transitioning service members as a way to attract businesses in need of certain skillsets in its workforce. Rep. Graham’s amendment will standardize the types of data that are shared and streamline the process so that the program can be expanded. “Serving in the military, our veterans learn advanced skills they can put to use in the workforce,” Rep. Graham said. “I’m proud to support North Florida’s economic development groups as they step up to help our veterans find jobs. I’m excited by the potential to replicate this program across our state and country.” Rep. Graham’s amendment supporting MacDill Air Force Base, home to the Department of Defense’s Central Command, paves the way for the base to relocate a grenade range in order to construct a new Army Reserve Center and Aviation Support Facility. Other successful Graham initiatives passed in the legislation included allocating an additional $10 million to a US-Israel anti-tunneling cooperation program passed by Rep. Graham last year, and a program to maintain mine countermeasure capabilities, including those at Naval Support Activity Panama City. “Our closest ally in the Middle East – Israel – lives under the constant threat of terrorist attacks from underground tunnels,” Rep. Graham said. “Our joint US-Israel Anti-tunnel defense cooperation program will help Israel’s military hunt down tunnels and protect their border from terrorists. To secure peace and bring stability to the region, Israel must be able to secure their state from attacks.” Rep. Graham also introduced report language that will grow North Florida’s economy by supporting local businesses that assist our military. The report will urge research into lithium ion super-capacitors, which will support a program in Tallahassee, and facilitate further research into efficient freezing and refrigeration technology, which has the potential to save millions of dollars and will support a program in Panama City. The final initiative passed by Rep. Graham was a sense of Congress recognizing the importance of Panama City to the history and future of the United States Armed Forces. The amendment is a step forward in Rep. Graham’s mission to name a Navy littoral combat ship after Panama City. The amendment reads: “Congress commends the longstanding dedication and contribution to the Armed Forces by the people of Panama City, both through the legacy of naval ship building and through their ongoing commitment to support the mission of Panama City’s military installations and the personnel assigned to them; honors the members of the Armed Forces who have trained and served at the several military installations in and around Panama City; recognizes the contribution of the industry and workforce of Panama City to naval shipbuilding; and encourages the recognition of the importance of Panama City to the history of the Armed Forces by Congress, the Air Force, the Navy, and the American people by honoring the contribution of the people of Panama City to the defense of the United States.” The NDAA passed through the committee at around 2:30 this morning by a vote of 60-2. In addition to the initiatives passed by Rep. Graham, the legislation also provides a pay raise for our troops, increases funding for missile defense programs, and includes provisions to increase our military readiness around the world. ###
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham issued the following statement applauding House passage of the bipartisan Foreign Spill Protection Act, of which she is a cosponsor. The legislation amends the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 to make the owner or operator of a foreign offshore unit liable for removal costs and damages that result from an oil spill. “North Florida and the Panhandle know all too well the devastating effects an oil spill can inflict on our state’s coastal communities. We need to do everything we can to prevent future spills, and hold those who harm our environment accountable,” Rep. Graham said. “I’m proud to have cosponsored this legislation and bipartisan efforts to ban oil drilling off Florida’s beaches. And I applaud my Florida colleagues Congressmen Patrick Murphy and Carlos Curbelo for passing this important bill.” ###
04.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Representative Gwen Graham released a video highlighting her 26th Workday testing water quality and learning more about the issues facing Florida’s environment at Edward Ball Wakulla Springs State Park. Click here to watch Rep. Gwen Graham’s Wakulla Springs Workday video “On my Workday, I recognized with great clarity how all of Florida’s water is connected – from our oceans, to the Everglades, to our springs. We as Floridians need to work together to save all of our waters, because once something like Wakulla Springs is gone, you can never get it back,” Rep. Graham said. “I’ve come to Wakulla Springs since I was a little girl. I brought my own children here. And I want to make sure my future grandchildren and the next generation of Floridians are able to enjoy this beautiful natural treasure.” Rep. Graham began the Workday with Jim Stevenson, former chair of the Florida Springs Task Force, and Sean McGlynn, chair of the Wakulla Springs Alliance, testing water quality at Cascades Park and various sites north of the springs. At the state park, Graham piloted a boat and joined rangers in collecting water samples testing for light depth and nitrates across the springs. In Congress, Rep. Graham has made protect Florida’s natural treasures a priority. She has rallied the Florida delegation to support the Apalachicola Bay Restoration Act; co-sponsored legislation to restore the Everglades; fought oil drilling off Florida’s beaches and opposed fracking in the state. ###
04.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham joined the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) and allied veterans groups in calling on Congress to defend the Post-9/11 GI Bill. “Our country made a promise to our veterans that we’d support them when they came home from war – and now Congress needs to keep that commitment,” Rep. Graham said in a Capitol press conference. “Our veterans and their families make great sacrifices fighting for our freedom. I’m committed to fighting for them once they come home. Congress should focus on cutting waste, fraud and abuse – not balancing our budget on the backs of the men and women who serve in uniform.” Congress has already proposed legislation that would cut the housing allowance of dependents of Post-9/11 GI Bill recipients and many veterans worry this is just a first in a series of cuts to veterans benefits. Rep. Graham has made serving veterans a top priority since taking office. The first piece of legislation she introduced was the VETS Act, she’s created a program to recognize local businesses that hire veterans, and her office has returned more than $300,000 in earned benefits owed to North Florida veterans and their families. "The fact that we even have to fight to protect this critical earned benefit that has empowered so many Iraq and Afghanistan veterans and their families is beyond disappointing," said IAVA Founder and CEO Paul Rieckhoff. "The Post-9/11 GI Bill has created unparalleled educational and career opportunities for the nearly one million veterans who took advantage of it after service to our country. Veterans will not sit idly by while Members of Congress use the benefits we’ve earned as a piggy-bank for other programs. IAVA's 425,000 members are proud to join Representatives Graham, Moulton, Walz, Gabbard, Duckworth, Ashford and Rice in urging their colleagues in Congress to defend the Post-9/11 GI Bill." Also participating in today’s press conference were the Air Force Sergeants Association, the Association of the United States Navy, the Commissioned Officers Association, the Vietnam Veterans of America, and Representatives Seth Moulton (D-Mass.), Tim Walz (D-Minn.), Brad Ashford (D-Neb.), Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), and Kathleen Rice (D-N.Y.). ###
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham delivered a floor speech in the House of Representatives recognizing Florida State University’s research into the Zika Virus and calling on Congress to fully fund research, prevention and response efforts. “Florida State and its partner universities are showing we can make great steps in preventing the Zika Virus by working together. Congress should learn from their example and work together to stop Zika before it spreads in our state,” Rep. Graham said. CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. GRAHAM’S ZIKA FLOOR SPEECH Florida currently leads the country in reported Zika cases with 85 of the 346 confirmed cases nationwide coming from the state. The administration has reallocated $510 million previously earmarked for Ebola prevention to Zika prevention, and is asking for an additional $1.9 billion in funding– but Congress has been unable to act on the request. “There have already been more than 80 Zika cases reported in Florida, and as summer approaches, the situation will likely worsen,” Rep. Graham said. “We can’t wait any longer – it’s time to put politics aside and for Congress to do its job. We must fully fund research, prevention and response efforts to fight this deadly virus.” After Rep. Graham’s speech, Dr. Gary K. Ostrander, Vice President of Research at Florida State University & President, FSU Research Foundation said, “It’s an honor for our work on this critical global health issue to be recognized by Congresswoman Graham. The research produced by the Florida State-Johns Hopkins team has helped move the ball forward and demonstrates how federal support can yield important results.” In addition to calling on Congress to fund prevention efforts, Rep. Graham has co-sponsored two bipartisan bills introduced by Rep. Curt Clawson (FL-19) to establish a tax credit for vaccine research and development, and to reauthorize grants for a mosquito control program. ###
03.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham spent her March district work week focusing on North Florida’s military and veterans by visiting sites across the Second Congressional District and performing a Workday at Tyndall Air Force Base in Panama City. “Supporting our military and veterans is part of the North Florida Way – and it’s more than just a slogan. It’s the men and women who dedicate their lives volunteering with service organizations to help their fellow veterans. It’s the staff at the Sims Nursing Home who work every day to care for our elderly veterans. And it’s the active duty and reserve troops stationed from Tallahassee to Panama City serving to keep us safe,” Rep. Graham said. “I’m proud of all our service members and veterans across North Florida and it’s an honor to fight for them in Congress.” Rep. Graham began the week in Tallahassee with an inspection of the Tallahassee Veterans Affairs Clinic, a meeting with veterans service organizations, and a tour of the National Guard Armory. She continued her district events in Panama City with a hug-filled visit to the Clifford Chester Sims State Veterans Nursing Home, a tour of Undersea Solutions Group, and a Workday training with the 325th Fighter Wing at Tyndall Air Force Base. (Links to photos.) In Congress, Rep. Graham has made the military and veterans a priority since day one. The first piece of legislation she introduced was the VETS Act, she passed several initiatives in the National Defense Authorization Act, and her office has helped return more than $300,000 in earned benefits to North Florida veterans. (Links to press releases.) ###
03.04.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Today Representative Gwen Graham is visiting rural North Florida schools to celebrate Dr. Seuss’s birthday by reading to elementary students. At the schools, she’s also announcing a new summer reading program, Gwen’s Gophers, to encourage students to keep reading throughout their summer break. “As a mother, I know firsthand how Dr. Seuss’s stories can capture children’s imaginations and inspire them to read. It’s such a joy reading to children across North Florida and seeing the excitement on their faces,” Rep. Graham said. “I’m also excited to announce Gwen’s Gophers Summer Reading Program to help further motivate young students and raise awareness of the importance of early education.” Graham is visiting F.M. Golson Elementary in Jackson County, Hosford Elementary in Liberty County, and Chattahoochee Elementary in Gadsden County. Gwen’s Gopher Summer Reading Program is open to all elementary school students in the Second Congressional District. Students are required to read 10 books over the summer and mail in a list of the books to Rep. Graham’s office. Those who participate will receive recognition and a special prize from Rep. Graham. Students, families and teachers interested in the program can learn more at https://graham.house.gov/gophers ###
02.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – After listening to farmers across the Second Congressional District’s 14 counties, Representative Gwen Graham is teaming up with neighboring Representative Ted Yoho to introduce the bipartisan AgShare Act, to make it possible for new and beginning farmers to share idle government equipment. Currently the federal government is storing many different types of idle equipment that could be used for farming – much of the equipment is rarely used, but still must be stored and maintained. This legislation would create an equipment-sharing pilot program with the Department of Defense for new farmers to make use of the equipment and begin farming. “With an aging farmer population, there is a growing need to address agriculture’s obstacles to entry and find ways to help new farmers – and I heard firsthand from many beginning farmers that their biggest challenge is the high cost of equipment,” Rep. Graham said. “At the same time they’re struggling, the government is storing idle equipment that could be used for farming. This common sense bill would create an equipment-share program for new farmers to get on their feet and begin a career in agriculture.” Along with the legislation, Rep. Graham also released a new Farm Tour video. Click here to view the video. The legislation came from an idea presented to Rep. Graham by Jim Hill, a North Florida veteran who took part in the Farm Tour’s Next Generation of Agriculture Panel Discussion at FAMU. “Gwen listened to our concerns and now she’s working to help us,” Mr. Hill said. “This new program will be a hand up for new farmers like myself. It will make a way for people to come into farming who wouldn’t be able to otherwise. It will help revitalize American agriculture.” The bipartisan legislation is co-sponsored by neighboring District Three Representative Ted Yoho. Rep. Graham and Rep. Yoho are Florida’s only two members serving on the House Agriculture Committee. Rep. Yoho added, “So much is owed to our nation’s farmers. Never before has such a small number of Americans supplied so much too so many. With the percentage of people putting food on our tables getting smaller, more needs to be done to encourage a new generation to join the agricultural community. Leasing idle farm equipment is a common sense approach to helping new farmers manage their startup costs, while alleviating the debt burden of new equipment.” Bill Summary: DOD EQUIPMENT SURVEY: Within a year of enactment, the Secretary of Defense would be required to work with the Secretary of Agriculture to identify DOD equipment that would benefit farmers. The bill also directs the Defense Secretary to exclude from the program any equipment that is needed for military readiness. ELIGIBILITY: Participants must meet USDA’s definition for new and beginning farmers. DURATION: Three years, from the date of commencement. REPORT: The bill requires the Defense Secretary to submit a report to congress no more than 60 days after the pilot program ends. The report should include recommendations on extending or expanding the program. ###
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham issued the following statement applauding the departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs on taking steps to better address coordinating care for injured service members as they transfer from active duty to veteran status. “We need to do everything we can to help injured service members when they come home and then transfer to veteran status. We need to cut the red tape and streamline care,” Rep. Graham said. “I’m glad to see the departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs taking action. This is a step in the right direction, and I will continue to fight for our veterans and the VETS Act in Congress.” Rep. Graham has been working to spur action on improving coordinated care since taking office. Her first piece of legislation, the VETS Act, would train and hire more recovery coordinators to help the most seriously injured and ill post-9/11 veterans. And she brought attention to the issue when Defense Secretary Ash Carter testified in front of the House Armed Services Committee. Information on the departments’ new initiatives: The Defense and Veterans Affairs departments today announced an ongoing effort to ease the transition for service members who require complex care management as they transition from the DoD system of health care to the VA, or within each system. The effort is designed to ease the burden for service members and veterans who have suffered illnesses or injuries so severe as to require the expertise provided by multiple care specialties throughout both departments. The lead coordinator will offer personal guidance and assist service members and their families in understanding the benefits and services to which they are entitled. Service members, veterans and their families, working with their lead coordinator, will have someone to whom they can turn when they have a question or issue as they actively participate in their care, officials explained, adding that the first phase of lead coordinator training was completed in November. Officials expect that 1,500 DoD and 1,200 VA people will serve as lead coordinators. This effort comes as a result of the work of the DoD-VA Interagency Care Coordination Committee, established in 2012 to implement a joint, standard model of collaboration for the most complex cases of care that will require a warm handoff from the DoD to the VA system of care, as well as within the departments, officials said. It is based on many of the best practices of collaboration that have been created over the last decade, they added. The effort was enacted as policy by both departments in 2015, aligning more than 250 subpolicies into a single, overarching policy that will govern the coordination of complex care cases that transition between the two departments. Coordination efforts are synchronized through the committee’s Community of Practice, a group representing more than 50 DoD and VA programs that provide specialty care, including rehabilitation services for the visually impaired and polytrauma centers. It will be the job of the lead coordinator to guide service members through the system, officials said, ensuring that they receive the care, benefits and services they both require and to which they are entitled. ###
02.17.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham announced her office is returning more than $150,000 in unused office funds to reduce the federal deficit. “I believe members of Congress have a responsibility to set an example for the entire government to cut spending,” Rep. Graham said. “Reducing our office budget and returning $150,000 is just a start. To truly tackle our debt and deficit, Republicans and Democrats must work together on a smarter budget that funds our priorities and cuts wasteful spending.” Each member’s budget is allotted by the House of Representatives with procedures and formulas that result in differing amounts for each district. For a direct comparison of the Second Congressional District, in his last year in office, with the same budget allowance, Representative Steve Southerland only returned $22,277 or just 1.77 percent of his budget – meaning Rep. Graham has reduced the office’s budget by more than $125,000, over 10 percent, in just one year. Deficit reduction has been a priority of Rep. Graham’s since taking office. One of the first bills Rep. Graham sponsored would cut waste by targeting duplicative government programs, she filed a bipartisan bill to ban members from flying first class, and she sponsored legislation requiring members of Congress to return their pay if the government shuts down. The deficit reduction announcement follows yesterday’s news that Rep. Graham’s office has returned more than $1 million owed to North Florida seniors, veterans and families in the Second Congressional District. ###
02.16.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Surrounded by North Florida seniors, veterans and families, Representative Gwen Graham announced, today, that her office has helped return more than $1 million owed to constituents in the Second Congressional District. “From day one, I’ve made constituent services a top priority,” Rep. Graham said. “I believe public service is about helping people – and while politicians fight in Washington, this is one way we can make a big difference in people’s lives here in North Florida.” The office has completed work on more than 1,136 individual cases. The monetary value represents the amount of money or benefits owed to constituents that may have been stalled or withheld by the federal government. “I’m outraged when I hear from a veteran caught in red tape, or from a senior struggling to receive their benefits. No one who has served our country or spent their entire lives paying into Social Security and Medicare deserves that kind of treatment. Our office is here to help you get the benefits you’ve earned and the services you deserve,” Rep. Graham said. Money returned to constituents includes: • $489,000 in Social Security benefits, Medicare, and Medicaid benefits • $293,000 in Veterans benefits • $118,000 from the Internal Revenue Service • $100,000 in Deepwater Economic Horizon Claims Rep. Graham has constituent service representatives in her Tallahassee and Panama City offices, and they hold regular monthly office hours in each of the district’s 12 rural counties. Constituents needing help with Medicare, Social Security, veterans benefits or other federal agencies can contact Rep. Graham’s office at 850-891-8610. ###
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in recognition of the Tallahassee Democrat and the 2016 class of “25 Women You Need to Know.” For ten years the Democrat has honored 25 women who have made great accomplishments professionally and in our community, and for the second year the Democrat also recognized five “Young Women to Watch.” Click here to read more about the Tallahassee Democrat’s “Women You Need to Know” and to view a full list of the 2016 class. Click here to watch the full video of Rep. Graham’s speech. Full text of Rep. Graham’s speech: Mr. Speaker, today, I stand to bring attention to the Tallahassee Democrat’s 25 Women You Need to Know. For 10 years, the Democrat has named 25 women who deserve recognition from our community. These women have not only excelled in their professional careers, but they also donate their time and talents toward volunteering and giving back to our community. And for the second year in a row, the paper is also naming Five Young Women to Watch: Bliss Wilson, Cassidy Craig, Jordyn Berrian, Micah Joyner, and Zenani D. Johnson. These young women are only in high school, but already have impressive resumes – and I know they’re going to go on to do great things. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Democrat for their service to our community in recognizing these women – and I applaud this year’s 25 women and 5 young women on their accomplishments. Thank you. I yield back the balance of my time. ###
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – CQ Roll Call has released their 2015 vote study which ranks Representative Gwen Graham as the most independent-voting member of the Florida delegation. The annual study analyzes voting records, bipartisanship and productivity. “This ranking shows I’m following through on my promise to represent the Second Congressional District with an independent voice,” Rep. Graham said. “It doesn’t matter if a bill is Democratic or Republican – I vote based on whether it helps the people of North Florida.” Graham scored a 79% percent party-voting score, making her the most independent Florida member; the sixth most independent Democrat in the House; and the ninth most independent representative of either party. The study also found Congress was more productive in 2015 than at any time since 2009. “By any measure, 2015 was a productive year. The 114th Congress enacted 115 laws, the most in the first year of any two-year term since 2009, when 125 were enacted under Democratic control of the House, Senate and White House. Last year’s total was 60 percent higher than in 2013 and 42 percent higher than 2011.” – CQ Roll Call 2015 Vote Study “The North Florida Way and bipartisanship are working. We passed legislation to defend Israel from terrorist tunnels. We gained StrikeForce status to fight poverty in rural counties. And we’re providing outstanding constituent services,” Rep. Graham said. ###
02.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham issued the following statement on the Florida Department of Environmental Protection’s decision to delay seismic testing for oil and gas in Calhoun and Gulf counties. “Our water is vital to our environment and economy – and in North Florida that water is uniquely protected by porous limestone rock,” Rep. Graham said. “Republicans and Democrats, from rural and urban counties across the Second Congressional District, have voiced their concerns that fracking could pose a threat to our water and our way of life. Government must listen to those it represents, and I applaud the DEP’s decision to place testing on hold.” Background: Eleven of the fourteen counties in the Second Congressional District have voted in some form against fracking (sources below). Rep Graham sent a letter to the Department of Environmental Protection expressing her concerns with fracking in North Florida on October 20, 2015. Click here for a copy of Rep. Graham’s letter. Bay – Bay County commissioners vote against fracking, 12/15/15 Franklin – Franklin County commission passes resolution opposing fracking in Florida, 11/4/15 Gadsden – Commission resolution opposing fracking statewide, 7/7/15 Gulf – Commission resolution opposing fracking statewide, 1/26/16 Jackson – Commission passes resolution opposing fracking, 10/27/15 Jefferson – Commission adopts anti-fracking resolution 8/25/15 Leon – Commission resolution opposing fracking statewide, 3/10/15 Madison – Commission resolution opposing fracking statewide, 3/11/15 Taylor – County says no to fracking 12/23/15 Wakulla – Board reverses, passes fracking ban, 1/27/16 Washington – Washington County BOCC votes to ban ‘Fracking’ in county, 2/2/16 ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham took to the House Floor to speak in support of the American Heart Association’s “Go Red for Women” campaign, today. In her message, she encouraged her fellow representatives and constituents in North Florida to join her in raising awareness for fighting heart disease and stroke by wearing red on National Wear Red Day – Friday, February 5, 2016. The “Go Red for Women” campaign is aimed at fighting heart disease and stroke in women. Today, 1 in 3 American women die from heart disease and stroke, killing approximately one woman every 80 seconds. Studies show 80 percent of these deaths are preventable with education and action. Click here to read more about the American Heart Association’s “Go Red for Women” campaign. Click here to watch the full video of Rep. Graham’s speech. Full text of Rep. Graham’s speech: Mr. Speaker, Today, I rise in support of the American Heart Association’s “Go Red for Women” campaign. Heart disease and stroke cause 1 in 3 deaths among women each year, killing approximately one woman every 80 seconds. The troubling numbers are more than a statistic – they’re a fact of life that cause unnecessary pain and suffering to families across the country. I say unnecessary pain and suffering because we have the power to change it. We can save lives. As much as 80 percent of heart disease and stroke related deaths can be prevented with education and action. That’s why I’m standing to raise awareness – and encourage my fellow members and constituents across North Florida to Go Red by participating in National Wear Red Day on Friday. Wear something red Friday to show your support for women fighting heart disease and strokes, and together, we can save lives. Thank you M. Speaker. I yield back the balance of my time. ###
01.25.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Representative Gwen Graham has completed her first North Florida Farm Tour to highlight agriculture across the 14 counties of the Second Congressional District. On the Farm Tour, Rep. Graham participated in a wide variety of activities, from learning about new aquaculture opportunities such as farming oysters in Wakulla County, to completing a Workday in Calhoun County, where she pregnancy checked cattle. "I'm so grateful to all the farmers and farm organizations who helped us highlight North Florida agriculture," Rep. Graham said. "I saw firsthand how hard North Florida farm families work to provide food for our tables. Their spirit, work ethic and incredible kindness truly represents the North Florida Way." The tour kicked off Tuesday with a panel discussion on the future of agriculture at Florida A&M University, where Rep. Graham and US Department of Agriculture Deputy Secretary Krysta Harden announced the expansion of the USDA's StrikeForce initiative to fight rural poverty in North Florida. Launched in 2010, USDA’s StrikeForce delivers promising results through partnerships with more than 1,500 community organizations, businesses, foundations, universities, faith-based and other community groups. Just last year, StrikeForce technical assistance helped USDA invest over $7.5 billion to create jobs, build homes, feed children, assist farmers and conserve natural resources in some of the nation's most economically challenged areas. Deputy Secretary Harden announced the program would be expanded to 13 of the 14 counties in the Second Congressional District, and she credited Rep. Graham's tenacity and persistence as key factors in the USDA's decision to extend the program to Florida. "I'm incredibly proud of our work to bring the StrikeForce program to North Florida," Rep. Graham said. "The Farm Tour has strengthened my commitment to helping our rural communities — and the work doesn't stop with the end of the Farm Tour. I'm going to take the lessons and knowledge I learned back to the House Agriculture Committee and continue fighting for the farmers and rural communities across North Florida." For photos of Rep. Graham's North Florida Farm Tour, click here. Full List of Farm Tour events: Leon — Next Generation of Agriculture Panel Discussion Gadsden — StrikeForce discussion with community leaders; discussion with tomato producers Wakulla — Wakulla Environmental Institute oyster farm Taylor — Workday at Billy Wayne Murphy's citrus nursery Madison — Tour of Bubba Greene’s timber farm Jefferson — Tour of Waukeenah Fertilizer and Farm Supply Liberty — Tour of Jerkins aquaculture & cattle farm Franklin — Lunch with community leaders Gulf — Tour of Wood’s Fisheries Bay — Tour of Port Panama City Washington — Lunch with local agriculture producers Holmes — Tour of Woodham Peanut Jackson — Discussion with peanut and cotton growers Calhoun — Cattle Workday at Crooked Creek Farm ###
01.18.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – On Martin Luther King Day, Representative Gwen Graham’s Congressional Office announced its second annual Black History Month Essay Contest. All middle school students in the Second Congressional District are invited to participate. All participating students will receive a letter from Rep. Graham thanking them for essay entry, and a winner will be selected from each school to receive a special certificate. Essay Prompt: “Learning about black history is important because . . .” What: Black History Month Essay ContestWho: Middle school students in the Second Congressional DistrictWhen: Essays are due Tuesday, February 23rd.How: Essays should be typed and no longer than one page. Please mail or deliver them to Rep. Graham’s district offices and include each student’s name, grade and school on each essay. ###
01.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham nominated 11 students from North Florida for admission to attend one of the United States Military Service Academies. All of the nominees are high school students who reside in Florida’s Second Congressional District. They were interviewed, evaluated and recommended by a nomination committee based on their academic record, test scores, leadership ability, involvement in extracurricular activities and demonstrated commitment to serving the country. “There is no greater honor than wearing the uniform of our nation’s military, and I commend all of our applicants for their desire to serve,” Rep. Graham said. “The outstanding young men and women selected represent the best of North Florida. Those who gain admission will receive the best military education and training in the world.” Nominated Students: William Blue, Taylor County High, Perry Christian Busuttil, J.R. Arnold High, Panama City Beach Tanner Clemons, North Florida Christian School, Tallahassee Minnie Kinard, A. Crawford Mosley High, Panama City Ryan Lunt – Lincoln High, Tallahassee John T. Marsh – North Florida Christian School, Tallahassee Colin McDuffie – Maclay School, Tallahassee David Mottice – Community Christian School, Tallahassee Jacob Moudy – Lincoln High, Tallahassee Joshua Patriotis – Franklin County School, Eastpoint Jacob Wynn – North Florida Christian School, Tallahassee ###
01.11.2016	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Representative Gwen Graham is inviting high school students in the Second Congressional District to enter the office's second annual Congressional Art Competition. CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE OFFICIAL 2016 ART COMPETITION RULES AND REGULATIONS. Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Since the Artistic Discovery competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. Students submit entries to their representative’s office, and district artists select the winning entries. Winners are recognized both in their district and at an annual awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. The winning works are displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. Only one piece of artwork can be submitted per school and it is up to the designated teacher to choose which piece of art will be entered into the competition. Please DO NOT send physical copies of art work to our Tallahassee, Panama City or Washington D.C. offices. Please send us an electronic copy of the selected piece of art. Electronic images should be in .TIF, .JPG, or .PDF format and must have a file size of 2MB or less. Once the teacher has selected a piece of artwork, please send it to Tristin Brown at Tristin.Brown@mail.house.gov with the digital image, the school name, the students name, and the name of the piece. Please have all artwork emailed to Tristin Brown by Monday April 4th, 2016.
01.04.2016	PANAMA CITY, Fla. – Bipartisan legislation introduced by Representatives Gwen Graham and Garret Graves (R-LA) to renew the Sport Fish Restoration and Boating Trust Fund was passed into law as part of a larger transportation bill, this month. Graham and Graves introduced H.R.3462 - Sport Fish Restoration and Recreational Boating Safety Act of 2015 - on September 9, 2015. The legislation ensures that taxes and fees already charged to fishermen and boaters are allocated to protect coastal environments, restore fisheries and improve boating safety. The bill specifically includes funds for state fishery commissions and the Coast Guard Recreational Boating Safety program. "I understand how important fishing and boating are to North Florida, especially in Panama City and our coastal communities" Rep. Graham said. "Our legislation ensures that these funds go back where they belong — to benefit the fishermen and boaters who pay them." Since 2004, the Sport Fish Restoration and Boating Trust Fund has stocked more than 3.8 billion fish; built and improved 11,000 boat ramps and access sites; helped teach 4.7 million students aquatic education; and protected 63,337 acres of fish habitat. The legislation renews the trust for five years without raising any taxes or fees. It also provides states with more flexibility in how they are able to spend Boating Infrastructure and Clean Vessel Act grants. The Marine Retailers Association of the Americas, National Marine Manufacturers Association and the Angling & Boating Alliance all applauded passage of the legislation. "This shows what can be done when Democrats and Republicans, fishermen and conservationists all work together on common sense legislation," Rep. Graham said. "We have a responsibility to keep our oceans healthy and safe for today's boaters — and so that future generations can continue to enjoy our way of life for years to come." ###
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Representative Gwen Graham’s office donated more than 200 books to Bring-Me-A Book Franklin – bringing their 2015 total to over 1,000 books donated to rural counties. “It’s such an honor to have helped donate more than 1,000 books from the Library of Congress to rural libraries and literacy programs in North Florida,” Rep. Graham said. “I hope this will help encourage parents and families to bring their children to the library and keep them reading.” Bring Me A Book Franklin, Inc. is a Florida non-profit (501(c)(3)) focused on igniting the passion to read in the children of Franklin County and North Florida. Directed toward improving literacy and success in school, the program supplies quality books and open-faced bookcases to settings that serve young children, teachers and parents. The books were brought to the Second Congressional District by Rep. Graham’s office through the Library of Congress’s Surplus Books Program. ###
12.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham announced she’s planning to kick off the new year with a North Florida Farm Tour of all 14 counties in the Second Congressional District. The Farm Tour starts with a panel discussion on The Next Generation of Agriculture with Rep. Graham and special guest USDA Deputy Secretary Krysta Harden, on Tuesday, January 19, 9:00 a.m., at Florida A&M University. “The Second Congressional District is the most rural in our state,” Rep. Graham said. “Our farmers and rural communities are the backbone of North Florida, and I’m excited to kick off 2016 with a Farm Tour focused on the issues that affect them.” Over the course of the week (January 19 – 23), Rep. Graham will hold events in all 14 counties – meeting with farmers, learning about new agriculture techniques and performing two Workdays. More details on these events and press availability to follow. Rep. Graham requested to serve on the House Agriculture Committee when she was sworn into Congress in January of this year and is one of only two Florida members to serve on the committee. In her first year, Rep. Graham’s agriculture highlights include fighting to bring the USDA StrikeForce initiative to Florida, working with Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) to help farmers impacted by a quarantine, and performing a Workday at a North Florida family-owned creamery.
12.11.2015	Washington, D.C.—Representatives Gwen Graham (FL-02) and Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) are teaming up on H.R. 4226 to Provide Relief for Farmers Impacted by the Oriental Fruit Fly. Ninety-eight square-miles in South Miami-Dade County, Florida, have been quarantined by state and federal officials to control and eradicate an infestation of the devastating invasive species, the Oriental Fruit Fly. The Fly was first discovered on August 26, 2015 and the quarantine quickly went into place on October 1, 2015. There have been no new Fly discoveries since October 10, 2015, and the quarantine is expected to last until late February 2016, or when the Secretary decides to lift the embargo. The bipartisan legislation would amend the Agriculture Act of 2014 to provide supplemental disaster assistance to producers who have incurred market and production losses of their crop due to a federal or state government quarantine to control the Oriental Fruit Fly. The Oriental Fruit Fly is a very destructive pest and has been known to infest over 430 varieties of fruits and vegetables. Farmers in the quarantined area are unable to bring their crops to market for fear of potentially spreading the Fly throughout Florida and other parts of the country, devastating our nation's agriculture community. Crop insurance or similar products do not cover market losses due to a state or federal quarantine. "This bill will ensure that one-time payments are made only to farmers in the quarantined area of South Florida and that the payment to each farmer does not exceed 70% of the rolling average market value of their crop. No single farmer will be eligible to receive more than $125,000. In addition, any farmer receiving a payment as a result of this legislation will be required to purchase crop insurance or a similar product for two years to ensure participation in agriculture protection programs," Rep. Curbelo said. "I thank my colleague Rep. Graham for her leadership on this important matter. The Oriental Fruit Fly has the potential to decimate the agriculture community throughout Florida and our nation. It is critical we eradicate this invasive pest immediately while still providing impacted farmers with the relief they need to grow next season." “Florida farmers work every day to provide us with food for our tables," Rep. Graham said. "They deserve to know that when disaster strikes, we have their back. I’m proud to work on this bipartisan legislation with Representative Curbelo and applaud him for his work on this important issue." Please click here to read the bill text, and here to review a one page summary. ###
12.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham joined Representative Barbara Lee in (D-CA) in a special order session to highlight poverty in America. Rep. Graham spoke specifically about rural poverty and her support of expanding the USDA’s StrikeForce Initiative for Rural Growth and Opportunity to the state of Florida “Twelve of the fourteen counties I represent are rural counties that face many unique challenges, like access to social services, access to quality education and access to health care – and all these issues are compounded by a cycle of poverty,” Rep. Graham said in her speech. “This is especially prevalent in areas like Gadsden County, where more than 26 percent of the population live in poverty. It’s unacceptable for one in every four Americans to live in poverty in any part of our country – and we must do more to help rural families break the cycle of poverty and move into the middle class.” Click here to watch the full video of Rep. Graham’s speech. The StrikeForce program is designed to address challenges associated with rural poverty. Since its inception in 2010, StrikeForce teams have collaborated with more than 500 community partners and public entities across twenty states to bring targeted assistance to rural areas experiencing chronic poverty. StrikeForce efforts have helped direct over $16 billion in investments to create jobs, build homes, feed kids, assist farmers, and conserve natural resources in the country's most economically challenged areas. You can read more about StrikeForce and the program’s success stories, here. “As the USDA considers expanding StrikeForce into more states, I urge them to bring this program to Florida – especially to North Florida and Gadsden County,” Rep. Graham said. “Farmers and rural communities are the backbone of our state, and StrikeForce will help develop our economy, create jobs and fight rural poverty.” ###
12.08.2015	Representative Gwen Graham’s office held a workshop for North Florida firefighters to provide them with information and training on how to apply for Federal Emergency Management Agency grants, on Friday. “Part of providing the best constituent services is making sure our local governments and first responders have the tools they need to keep us safe,” Rep. Graham said. “I’m proud of our office’s work with FEMA to make sure our fire departments have the resources they need to receive these vital grants.” Fire departments from eight counties in North Florida participated in the workshop, in person and remotely by webinar. The program was led by Rep. Graham’s grant coordinator, Sarah Blei, and FEMA Region IV fire program specialist, Vince Ramm, who explained eligibility and eligible expenditures, application basics and tips for writing good narratives. Firefighters also learned firsthand from other departments who had previously submitted successful applications and received funding. There is $680 million dollars available in grants for local fire departments from FEMA: Assistance to Firefighters Grants: primarily for equipment, vehicles and training— $306 million Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Grants: primarily for salary assistance – $340 million Fire Prevention and Safety Grants: primarily for safety initiatives, like public outreach – $34 million The 2015 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG) opened on Monday, and closes on January 15, 2016 at 5:00 pm eastern time. Fire departments and applicants requiring assistance can contact Sarah Blei at sarah.blei@mail.house.gov or 850-785-0812 . More information can also be accessed on FEMA’s Fire Grants website. ###
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the passage of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, three initiatives supported by Representative Gwen Graham to improve civics education are on their way to becoming law. “When I speak with young people across North Florida I’m encouraged by how smart they are and their excitement for a better future,” Rep. Graham said. “We need to make sure our students are educated in civics, motivated to get involved in their communities and encouraged to participate in governing our great nation – by voting or running for office themselves someday.” The legislation includes three key provisions that were supported by Rep. Graham in a bipartisan letter to the House Committee on Education. The civic initiatives included in the legislation: Establish intensive academies for teachers and students to learn more about history and civics Authorize grants to non-profit organizations to create a range of innovative approaches to engage underserved students in history, civics and geography available to local schools and school districts Allow parent-engagement funds to be used to support financial literacy activities Rep. Graham said she was excited to work on the initiatives because of her father’s lifelong passion for greater civic education. “Encouraging greater civic engagement has been a lifelong passion of my father’s since he performed his first Workday teaching a high school class in 1974. More recently, he’s authored a book on the subject and founded the Graham Center for Public Service at the University of Florida. I’m proud to help carry on his legacy and work encouraging young people to become more engaged,” Rep. Graham said. ### ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham took to the House floor to recognize and honor Jefferson County Sheriff's Deputy Jerrod Rigdon, whose heroic actions saved the life of a Florida State University student in the Second Congressional District. CLICK HERE FOR A FULL VIDEO OF REP. GRAHAM’S FLOOR SPEECH. Full text of Rep. Graham’s floor speech: “Today, I rise to honor Jefferson County Sheriff's Deputy Jerrod Rigdon, whose heroic actions saved the life of a Florida State University student in my district.” “When Deputy Rigdon arrived at the crash early on the morning of Oct. 31, the scene was horrific. The car was mangled and the freshman student inside had life-threating injures. He neck was severed and he was quickly losing blood. The deputy quickly assessed the scene, worked to stop the bleeding and called for a helicopter to airlift the victim. Because of his fast response and heroic actions, Billy Fowler, the 18-year-old freshman in the car, is alive today. “I want to thank Deputy Rigdon and all of North Florida’s first responders. Thank you for risking your lives to protect ours. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
11.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham sent a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack urging him to extend the USDA’s StrikeForce Initiative for Rural Growth and Opportunity to the state of Florida. The StrikeForce program is designed to address challenges associated with rural poverty. Since its inception in 2010, StrikeForce teams have collaborated with more than 500 community partners and public entities across twenty states to bring targeted assistance to rural areas experiencing chronic poverty. “StrikeForce was designed to address the unique challenges facing rural, impoverished communities. These types of communities can be found throughout the state, but there is a high concentration in North Florida. Twelve of the fourteen counties that make up my district were designated as rural in the latest census,” Rep. Graham wrote in the letter. “North Florida boasts a diverse agriculture industry and is home to many irreplaceable natural resources that must be protected. Assisting farmers, boosting the economy and conserving natural resources are all focuses of the StrikeForce program, and no state is more qualified than Florida for assistance in those areas.” StrikeForce efforts have helped direct over $16 billion in investments to create jobs, build homes, feed kids, assist farmers, and conserve natural resources in the country's most economically challenged areas. You can read more about StrikeForce and the program’s success stories, here. “Farmers and rural communities are the backbone of North Florida and our state,” Rep. Graham said. “Extending StrikeForce to Florida will help further develop our economy and fight rural poverty.” ###
11.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham sent a bipartisan letter to the chairman and ranking members of the House Appropriations Committee calling on them to address the Army Corps of Engineers' ongoing mismanagement of the Alabama-Coosa-Tallapoosa and Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint (ACF) River Basins in any upcoming omnibus legislation. “The Apalachicola Bay is the heart of North Florida and we’re working in every way we can to restore its freshwater flow,” Rep. Graham said. “I’m proud to rally this bipartisan group of legislators from Florida and Alabama to support restoring the bay.” The letter states, “In light of the Corps’ September 30, 2015, release of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) and Water Control Manual (WCM) for the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint River Basin (AFC), Congressional action is needed given the current proposal would continue to severely restrict water flows for downstream users.” The letter goes on to urge the committee “to include language in any omnibus appropriations that ensures the management of both of these critical basins is not left to the whims of an unaccountable federal bureaucracy, but instead is properly determined and agreed upon by each state’s governor.” The letter was co-signed by Representatives Mo Brooks (R-SC), Martha Roby (R-AL), Mike Rogers (R-AL), Gary Palmer (R-AL), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Bradley Byrne (R-AL), Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Dennis Ross (R-FL), Jeff Miller (R-FL), Richard Nugent (R-FL). ###
11.10.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham launched the “I Hire Veterans” program to recognize North Florida businesses that recruit and hire veterans. At a press conference announcing the program, Rep. Graham recognized two inaugural businesses from the community: Syntech Systems and Lowes. “Serving our country in the armed services, our veterans learn advanced skills they can put to use in the workforce,” Rep. Graham said. “These North Florida businesses are stepping up to the plate and hiring these talented workers because they know they’re skilled and loyal. It’s a win-win for employers and veterans ¬– and I’m proud to recognize them here today.” Rep. Graham’s office is leading by example, currently employing veterans in the positions of economic development liaison and military & veterans affairs liaison. Graham is a member of the Congressional Veterans Jobs Caucus; and a co-sponsor of the HIRE Vets Act, which would create a national program to recognize businesses that recruit and employ veterans. Syn-Tech Systems, Incorporated is a dynamic defense and commercial engineering design and manufacturing firm based in Tallahassee, Fl. Syn-Tech specializes in materials handling and munitions support equipment and automated fuel management systems. Their operations include engineering design, systems integration, independent research and development, and product manufacturing. “We do fueling automation equipment for the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines, worldwide,” said Doug Dunlap, president of Syntech Systems. “Certainly, hiring veterans that are familiar with our equipment and familiar with DOD operations is a huge asset to us. I’m proud to say that we have 37 veterans on our staff.” The program is open to all businesses in the Second Congressional District that recruit and hire veterans. Businesses interested in being recognized can apply at one of Rep. Graham’s district offices, in Tallahassee or Panama City, or by contacting Rep. Graham’s veterans affairs liaison, Kyle McIntyre, at 850-891-8610. Graham will hold a similar press conference and award ceremony in Panama City Beach, on Veterans Day. ###
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Gwen Graham joined an overwhelming bipartisan majority to pass the 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) in the House of Representatives by a 370-58 vote. The NDAA provides an increase to military spending and includes several important provisions amended to the bill by Rep. Graham, who serves on the House Armed Services Committee. “The men and women serving in North Florida and across the world deserve to know they have our full support. The National Defense Authorization Act finally starts to reverse sequestration’s harmful cuts and sets us on a path toward fully funding our military,” Rep. Graham said. “We still have more work to do, but this bill will ensure our nation’s military remains the strongest on earth. I urge the Senate to pass the bill as soon as possible and for the president to sign it promptly.” The legislation includes three important national defense initiatives Rep. Graham amended to the bill: the US-Israel Anti-Tunnel Defense Cooperation Act; support for military divers; and a portion of the VETS Act. “By working with Democrats and Republicans, we’ve had great success in passing our North Florida initiatives in the National Defense Authorization Act. We’re going to recognize our military divers, take care of our veterans and help our closest ally in the Middle East, Israel.” In addition to funding existing programs, the bill revamps the military’s retirement benefits structure, gives service chiefs greater control over procurement decisions, beefs up cybersecurity efforts and provides greater funding to defeat ISIS. “We must be tough and smart on national security. That means investing in more security at home and defeating ISIS without getting dragged into another civil war.”
11.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Gwen Graham and Dennis A. Ross (FL-15), are teaming up, today, to introduce a House Resolution that encourages elementary and secondary schools to promote civic education and engagement by emphasizing teaching U.S. history and civics. The Resolution particularly encourages secondary schools to administer a test to high school seniors based on an official list of 100 civics questions and answers used by the secretary of Homeland Security in naturalization exams. Click here to view the secretary's 100 questions. “When I speak with young people across North Florida I’m encouraged by how smart they are and their excitement for a better future,” Rep. Graham said. “We need to make sure they’re educated in civics and ready to participate in governing our great nation, whether that means using their First Amendment rights, their vote or by running for office themselves.” The test will not be mandatory and the representatives do not advocate changing passing criteria based on the test, but instead using it as a tool for increasing civic engagement and education. Rep. Ross added, “An increased emphasis on civic education must be made. I believe this test will help teach and inform the next generation in our communities about their role as citizens, increase students’ civic and constitutional knowledge, and improve the overall health of our republic. This test is not mandatory and does not affect students’ graduation or passing criteria. However, I strongly encourage schools and teachers to take advantage of this great test. Rep. Graham said she was excited to work with Rep. Ross on the resolution because of her father’s lifelong passion for greater civic education. “Encouraging greater civic engagement has been a lifelong passion of my father’s since he performed his first Workday teaching a high school class in 1974. More recently, he’s authored a book on the subject and founded the Graham Center for Public Service at the University of Florida. I’m proud to help carry on his legacy and work encouraging young people to become more engaged,” Rep. Graham said. ###
10.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack announced the USDA is awarding loans and grants to more than 1,100 rural small businesses and agricultural producers, including two in North Florida, to help reduce energy usage and costs in their operations. A grant of $13,171 will be awarded to Adams Farms, in Jackson County, to install a 10KW Solar Electric System, and $103,239 will be awarded to Woodham Peanut Co., in Holmes County, to install a new energy-efficient drying system. “The Rural Energy for America Program is helping farmers and small businesses save energy and save money,” Rep. Graham said. “This is a win-win for our environment and for North Florida’s rural communities.” The USDA is providing $102 million in loan guarantees and $71 million in grants for 1,114 projects financed through the Rural Energy for America Program (REAP). In total, these projects are expected to generate and/or save 906 million kilowatt hours (KWh) of energy – enough to power more than 83,675 homes for a year and cut carbon pollution by an estimated 455,000 metric tons. That is the equivalent of taking more than 131,500 cars off the road for a year. “More rural business owners and ag producers are incorporating energy-saving measures into their business plans,” Vilsack said in a press release. “These actions improve an operation’s bottom line and help reduce its carbon footprint. This funding will help incorporate renewable energy and energy efficiency technology and reduce energy costs. But beyond the local benefits seen by a company saving energy costs and the global benefits of reducing carbon emissions, this funding will also create American jobs by supporting energy production and efficiency installations that are made in rural America.” Congress created the REAP program in the 2002 Farm Bill. Because of the success of the program, Congress reauthorized it in the 2014 Farm Bill with guaranteed funding of at least $50 million annually for the duration of the five-year bill. The 2014 Farm Bill builds on historic economic gains in rural America over the past seven years while achieving meaningful reform and billions of dollars in savings for taxpayers. Since 2009, REAP has helped finance 10,753 renewable energy and energy efficiency projects that have reduced energy costs for rural businesses nationwide. During this period, USDA has provided almost $360 million in grants and $430 million in loan guarantees to agricultural producers and rural small business owners. When operational, these projects will generate/save an estimated 8.4 million megawatt hours – enough to power more than 760,000 homes for a year and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by almost 5 million metric tons of carbon dioxide. That’s the equivalent of removing more than 1 million cars from the road. In addition to the grants announced today, USDA is reminding eligible recipients that the department is accepting applications for future REAP funding. For application deadlines and details on how to apply, contact a USDA state energy coordinator, or see page 60349 of the October 6 Federal Register. Information contained in this press release from the USDA release, USDA Provides Funding for More Than 1,100 Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects Nationwide. ###
10.15.2015	WAKULLA, Fla. – Today Representative Gwen Graham suited up in fire-resistant clothing and set out with the US Forest Service and Nature Conservancy on a controlled burn Workday to prevent forest fires and improve the Apalachicola National Forest’s ecosystem. On the Workday, Rep. Graham protected trees housing the endangered Red-Cockaded Woodpecker, ignited potentially dangerous underbrush, and extinguished a fire threatening to consume a longleaf pine. The purpose of controlled burns is to protect the health of the Apalachicola National Forest while demonstrating the positive benefits of controlled burning to Florida’s forests. “Fire” and “forests” may seem like an unlikely team, but in fact, Florida’s forests depend on fire to survive. Regular, natural burning clears the forest floor of underbrush that blocks sunlight and prevents new trees from germinating. Many animals also depend on new-growth grassy areas for food and habitat. Additionally, consistent controlled burns help prevent excess flammable materials from building up on the forest floor, which can ignite dangerously during prolonged droughts or lightning storms, threatening lives and property. “It was an honor to work alongside the men and women of the US Forest Service who risk their lives to keep us safe,” Rep. Graham said. “Controlled burns are our best defense against catastrophic wildfires. While they continue the fight in the forests, I’m going to fight in Congress to make sure they have the resources they need to keep our forest healthy.” On the Workday, Graham highlighted her support for the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act and for reauthorizing the Land and Water Conservation Fund, two pieces of legislation vitally important to keeping North Florida’s forest healthy. When a catastrophic fire breaks out, as we’re currently seeing in the western United States, it takes an act of Congress to appropriate the needed emergency funds for fighting the fire – often a difficult task. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act would set up a dedicated fund that could be relied upon when emergency assistance is needed to fight catastrophic wildfires. Rep. Graham is co-sponsoring legislation to reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), which expired on September 30. For 50 years, the LWCF has helped federal, state and local governments purchase lands for the recreational and environmental benefit of all Americans. The LWCF has appropriated more than $3.7 million in the Second Congressional District, including to the Apalachicola National Forest and park projects in Tallahassee and Panama City. “Representative Graham had the future of North Florida in mind as she worked today protecting forest health,” said Deborah Keller, associate director of government relations for the Nature Conservancy. “Her support of important legislation including the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act and the Land and Water Conservation Fund will protect Florida’s federal parks and forests, and we applaud her for her dedication. The amazing Apalachicola National Forest has immense wildlife and plant diversity, of which several species can only be found in this part of the country. Rep. Graham is fighting to keep our forests and parks well managed with prescribed fires and invasive species control for Floridians now and for future generations. We thank her for her support.” “It’s inspiring to see the Forest Service, Nature Conservancy, Florida Fish and Wildlife and other organizations come together to prevent and fight fires in North Florida. Congress could learn a thing or two from their co-operation and hard work,” Rep. Graham said. ###
10.14.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Today Representative Gwen Graham held a roundtable with local students from Florida State University and Florida A&M University to discuss college affordability and student loans. During the roundtable, Rep. Graham announced she would be introducing The Employer Participation in Student Loan Assistance Act to enable employers to help pay their employees student loans. “Too many students are receiving a great education but graduating with a burden of debt that prevents them from buying a home, saving for retirement or pursuing their preferred career,” Rep. Graham said. “The Student Loan Assistance Act will incentivize businesses to help their employees pay off student loans. This legislation will help graduates become debt free, provides a tax cut to businesses, and will give a boost to our economy.” Today’s average student graduates with nearly $30,000 in student debt and school loans are now the second highest form of consumer debt. Current law allows for employers to pay for continuing education, up to $5,250 per year, with those expenses not counting as income, meaning employees don’t have to pay taxes on them. But, current law does not allow for an employer to pay off past education expenses like student loans. For example, if an employer paid off $1,000 in student loans on a employee’s behalf, the IRS would look at that payment as income, and the employee would have to pay income taxes on it. The Employer Participation in Student Loan Assistance Act would allow employers to repay an employee’s existing student loan debt, up to $5,250/year, without the employee having to pay income taxes on that benefit. This is a win-win for employees and employers and could be a good recruitment tool to help employers recruit and retain young talent and help employees pay off their loans. “Democrats and Republicans agree we need to address this issue, and the Student Loan Assistance Act is simple bipartisan legislation that will make a big difference in helping students pay off their loans,” Rep. Graham said. The legislation is co-sponsored by Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) ###
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham took to the House floor to recognize and honor Dr. Sybil Mobley, the founding dean of Florida A&M’s School of Business and Industry, who passed away last week at the age of 89. CLICK HERE FOR A FULL VIDEO OF REP. GRAHAM’S FLOOR SPEECH. Rep. Graham’s office will present a proclamation and flag flown over the Capitol in Dr. Mobley’s honor at a public service, tomorrow at 4:00 pm, at Florida A&M University’s Lee Hall Auditorium. Full text of Rep. Graham’s floor speech: “Today I rise to honor the life of Dr. Sybil Mobley, the founding dean of Florida A&M University’s School of Business and Industry. “Dr. Mobley first worked at Florida A&M as a secretary in 1945 – she then went on to study at the Wharton School of Finance and earned her doctorate from the University of Illinois. After graduating, Dr. Mobley returned to Florida A&M, and in 1974 she became the founding dean of the University’s School of Business and Industry. “She held that position for 29 years, during which time she worked tirelessly to build the business school into a nationally recognized institution. “Her rise from working as a secretary to sitting on the board of fortune 500 companies and leading a business school serves as an inspiration for all of us. “Today, we mourn Dr. Mobley’s passing – and celebrate her life. She was a treasure to FAMU, Tallahassee, the state of Florida and our nation.” ###
10.07.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Today, Senator Bill Nelson and Representative Gwen Graham were joined by Senator Marco Rubio, Representative Vern Buchanan and 18 members of Florida’s House delegation in sending a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers expressing their concern for the Apalachicola Bay. The letter urges the Army Corps of Engineers to address the lack of freshwater flow to the Apalachicola Bay in its draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and Master Water Control Manual for the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint (ACF) River Basin. “We are very disappointed that this latest plan falls short of fixing the long-running failure of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to properly operate the dams and reservoirs along the ACF river basin. The Corps’ recommended changes will do nothing to protect the health of the full ACF system,” they wrote in the letter. “As representatives of Floridians across the state, we are deeply troubled by the Corps’ consistent mismanagement of this shared resource. We strongly urge you to reconsider the proposals in the draft EIS and to remedy them in the final version.” Historically, the Apalachicola Bay has been one of the most productive estuaries in the Northern Hemisphere, supporting numerous species of oysters, shrimp, crab, grouper, snapper, redfish, and baitfish. The sustainability of these species is at risk due to the persistent salinity levels and nutrients flowing from Apalachicola Bay into the Gulf of Mexico. Senator Nelson quote. “I’m thankful to all the members of Florida’s delegation who are rallying together to save the Apalachicola Bay,” Rep. Graham said. “The Apalachicola Bay represents the heart of North Florida – we cannot overstate its importance to our heritage, environment and economy. The Corps’ Environmental Impact Study clearly does not address the devastating harm being done to the bay by withholding freshwater, and we’re working together to fix that.” The letter sent to Jo-Ellen Darcy, assistant secretary of the Army (Civil Works) and Lieutenant General Thomas P. Bostick, commanding general of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The letter was signed by Senators Nelson and Rubio, and Representatives Gwen Graham (FL-02), Vern Buchanan (FL-16), Jeff Miller (FL-01) ,Ted Yoho (FL-03), Ander Crenshaw (FL-04) Corrine Brown (FL-05), Ron DeSantis (FL-06) , Alan Grayson (FL-09), David Jolly (FL-13), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Dennis Ross (FL-15), Patrick Murphy (FL-18), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Lois Frankel (FL-22), Debbie Wasserman Schultz ( FL-23), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Mario Diaz Balart (FL-25), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27). ###
10.02.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham announced the Shutdown Prevention Act to eliminate future shutdown threats and implement measures that will force Congress to finally pass an annual budget. “The American people are tired of Washington’s manufactured crises and shutdown threats,” Rep. Graham said. “The Shutdown Prevention Act will take away power from the small minority causing Congressional chaos and put it back in the hands of the moderate majority of Democrats and Republicans who believe government should actually govern.” The Shutdown Prevention Act works in three simple ways: Within 24 hours of a government shutdown, any member would be allowed to offer a clean 30-day continuing resolution. This will prevent small minorities of extreme partisans from threatening shutdowns, when a majority of members support keeping the government open. During the ensuing 30-day extension, Congress is forced to actually work by cutting off their travel funds; forbidding recesses; and limiting their weekends to just two days (a stark comparison to the three- and four-day weekends they currently enjoy.) Congress is then forced to negotiate and pass an annual budget or penalty measures re-activate with the next 30-day continuing resolution. Government shutdowns negatively impact a wide range of families in North Florida. The 16-day shutdown in 2013 hurt small businesses, hindered economic growth and hampered job creation. Civilian Department of Defense employees were furloughed, base commissaries were closed and veterans’ services were limited. The most recent shutdown threat would have cut off nutrition assistance and closed Headstart classrooms. “Government Shutdowns hurt our military and most vulnerable families harder than anyone else,” Rep. Graham said. “It’s easy for members to abandon their responsibilities and let the government shutdown. It’s harder to roll up their sleeves and negotiate a budget. I think we were elected to do the hard work, and the Shutdown Prevention Act will force Congress to do just that.” The legislation follows Wednesday night’s vote for a clean continuing resolution, in which Rep. Graham joined Democrats and moderate Republicans in preventing a government shutdown, just hours before funding lapsed. ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, after voting for a bipartisan clean budget extension that prevents another government shutdown, Rep. Gwen Graham called on members of both parties to begin negotiations on a year-long budget that replaces sequester with smarter cuts and fully funds our nation’s priorities. “Budgeting month to month is no way to run the greatest country on earth,” Rep. Graham said. “The Constitution gives the House of Representatives the power of the purse, and it’s time for Congress to take that responsibility seriously. With the shutdown deadline extended to December, I’m calling on leaders of both parties to roll up their sleeves and negotiate a budget that fully funds the military and our communities.” With just hours left before a shutdown, Democrats joined moderate Republicans in passing a clean continuing resolution that will keep the government open through December 11, 2015. Rep. Graham has been calling on Congress to support a clean budget extension for weeks – including co-sponsoring legislation that would have withheld lawmakers’ pay if the government shutdown – and is drafting legislation to prevent future shutdowns and force Congress to work on a budget. “It’s easy for members of Congress to shun their responsibilities and let the government shutdown. It’s harder to roll up our sleeves and negotiate a responsible bipartisan budget – but I believe we were sent here to do the hard work,” Rep. Graham said. “That’s why I’m drafting legislation that will prevent future shutdowns and force Congress to get back to work creating a budget.” ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham issued the following statement in response to Speaker John Boehner’s resignation announcement. “On my first day in office, I voted for new leadership because I believe at this critical time in our nation's history, Congress can not afford to remain divided and dysfunctional. “In my mission to bring the North Florida Way to Washington, I have worked with and become friends with members on both sides of the aisle — and thank Speaker Boehner for his lifetime of public service. Though we disagree on many issues, I have seen firsthand a bipartisan desire for Congress to get back to work for the American people. “With Speaker Boehner's announcement, today, I challenge my colleagues in both parties to join me in voting for new leadership that will heal our partisan divisions and unite us to solve the major issues we face.” ###
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – One week away from a government shutdown, Representative Gwen Graham is co-sponsoring a bill to withhold lawmakers’ pay if they fail to keep the government open. “We need to do everything we can to prevent a government shutdown, including hitting members of Congress where it counts – their wallets,” Rep. Graham said. “If families in North Florida are hurt during a shutdown, members of Congress should feel the pain.” A government shutdown threatens to negatively impact a wide range of families in North Florida. The 16-day shutdown in 2013 hurt small businesses, hindered economic growth and hampered job creation. In Panama City, civilian Department of Defense employees were furloughed, base commissaries were closed and veterans services were limited. The DOD is already preparing for another shutdown, and United States Department of Agriculture has warned a shutdown may cut off nutrition assistance for more than 45 million Americans, and Headstart pre-k programs would likely be forced to close. “We’ve seen this all before, government shutdowns hurt our military and most vulnerable families harder than anyone else,” Rep. Graham said. “We need to pass a clean continuing resolution to prevent a shutdown and then get to work negotiating a smarter budget that replaces sequester and fully funds our nation’s military and communities.” ###
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Representative Gwen Graham issued the following statement after listening to Pope Francis’ speech with her honored guest, the Rev. Gregory L. Parkes, Bishop of the Diocese of Pensacola-Tallahassee. (Photo of Rep. Graham and Bishop Parkes above.) “It was an incredible honor to welcome Pope Francis and Bishop Gregory Parkes to Washington. In his address to Congress, the Pope recognized our unique American spirit by speaking of four great Americans who worked for liberty, equality, justice and cooperation. He challenged us to put our differences aside and rise to the challenges we face. I feel blessed by his visit, and hope Congress will heed his message to work together to help those we serve.” ###
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With only five legislative days left until a government shutdown, Representative Gwen Graham joined 79 fellow members in writing a letter to Speaker John Boehner urging him to keep the House in session every day until a deal is reached to prevent another shutdown. “Taxpayers can’t afford another self-inflicted government shutdown,” Rep. Graham said. “The workers, small business owners, and service members I represent in North Florida work at least 40 hours a week – and Congress should work just as hard. Speaker Boehner needs to end the long weekends and keep us in session until we pass a clean budget extension.” A minority of extreme House members are threatening another government shutdown – a tactic an overwhelming majority of Americans disagree with, and Republican Senate Majority Mitch McConnell has called an “an exercise in futility.” “Congressional leadership is fine with the status quo – leaving early and avoiding working together to find real solutions – but the voters I represent are fed up with it. It’s time to roll up our sleeves and get to work passing a smarter budget that fully funds our military and communities,” Rep. Graham said.
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With only six legislative days left until a government shutdown, Representative Gwen Graham is calling on Speaker John Boehner and Congressional leadership to pass a clean budget extension (continuing resolution) and begin negotiations on a full bipartisan budget to replace sequestration. “Just months after threatening a Homeland Security shutdown and only two years after the last government shutdown, Congressional leadership is playing games, again,” Rep. Graham said. “The people of North Florida don’t think this is a game. The uncertainty in Washington hurts businesses, service members and families. I’m calling on Speaker Boehner and Congressional leadership to quit playing political games and bring a clean budget extension to the floor this week.” Numerous outlets are reporting a minority of extreme House members are threatening another government shutdown – a tactic an overwhelming majority of Americans disagree with, and Republican Senate Majority Mitch McConnell has called an “an exercise in futility.” “Both sides agree sequestration is hurting our military and communities," Rep. Graham said. “We need to pass a clean continuing resolution to prevent a shutdown, then Republicans and Democrats need to negotiate a smarter budget that reduces the debt and supports the men and women serving at Tyndall and Naval Support Activity PC – and the farmers, families and seniors in North Florida that depend on essential services.”
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham announced today that she has invited the Most Rev. Gregory L. Parkes, Bishop of the Diocese of Pensacola-Tallahassee, as her honored guest for Pope Francis’ address to Congress on September 24. "I think the whole country is looking forward to the Pope’s address – the first ever to a joint session of Congress.” Rep. Graham said. “It’s an amazing honor to be a member of Congress during such a monumental event in our nation’s history, and I’m feeling blessed to be in such a position where I can extend an invitation to Bishop Gregory Parkes to view the address from the House gallery.” This will be Pope Francis’ first visit to America, where he will be the first ever Pope to address a joint session of Congress. He arrives in Washington, D.C., on September 22, and is scheduled to visit New York and Philadelphia. Bishop Gregory Parks said, “ I am very grateful to Representative Graham for the invitation to be present for Pope Francis’ address to Congress. This will be a historic visit by the Holy Father to the United States, and his address to Congress is certainly one of the highlights. I am looking forward to joining Representative Graham for this very special occasion.” The Diocese of Pensacola-Tallahassee, founded in 1975, covers the 18 most northwestern counties of the State of Florida. Although the diocese is young, its roots go back to the first settlement of this region by Europeans, when in 1559 Don Tristan de Luna, on behalf of the Spanish crown, established the first settlement in what was to become the United States of America. The settlement was abandoned in 1561 due to hurricanes that destroyed the settlers supplies. Most Rev. Gregory L. Parkes was ordained and installed as the Fifth Bishop of Pensacola-Tallahassee on June 5, 2012, having been appointed to the position by His Holiness, Pope Benedict XVI, on March 20, 2012. Bishop Parkes was born April 2, 1964 in Mineola, NY. He attended St. Rose of Lima School in Massapequa, NY, Massapequa High School and Daytona Beach Community College before earning a bachelor’s degree in finance from Florida State University. Prior to entering the seminary he worked in the banking industry in Tampa, Florida. He attended St. Vincent de Paul Regional Seminary in Boynton Beach, Florida from 1993-1996 and the Pontifical North American College in the Vatican City State from 1996-2000. He holds a Sacred Theology (S.T.B.) degree from the Pontifical Gregorian University (1998) and a Canon Law (J.C.L.) degree from the Pontifical Gregorian University (2000). He was ordained a priest of the Orlando diocese by Bishop Norbert Dorsey on June 26, 1999. ###
09.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham joined Representative Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) and 18 other members of the Florida delegation in sending a bipartisan letter to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack calling on the department’s immediate attention to eradicating Oriental Fruit Flies threatening Florida crops. “Farmers are the backbone of North Florida and our state. When one farmer in South Florida is threatened by a pest or disease, it poses a threat to the entire state’s agriculture industry,” Representative Graham said. “We need all hands on deck, working together, to make sure we eradicate these flies before they spread any farther or cause more damage.” The fruit fly is one of the most destructive pests in the world and could threaten Florida’s $120 billion agriculture industry. A current outbreak in South Florida has already triggered a quarantine of 85 square miles of farmland. “As a fighter for Florida farmers and a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I want to thank my friend Representative Carlos Curbelo for taking the lead on this vital issue for our state,” Rep. Graham said. ###
09.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham joined Representative Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) and 18 other members of the Florida delegation in sending a bipartisan letter to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack calling on the department’s immediate attention to eradicating Oriental Fruit Flies threatening Florida crops. “Farmers are the backbone of North Florida and our state. When one farmer in South Florida is threatened by a pest or disease, it poses a threat to the entire state’s agriculture industry,” Representative Graham said. “We need all hands on deck, working together, to make sure we eradicate these flies before they spread any farther or cause more damage.” The fruit fly is one of the most destructive pests in the world and could threaten Florida’s $120 billion agriculture industry. A current outbreak in South Florida has already triggered a quarantine of 85 square miles of farmland. “As a fighter for Florida farmers and a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I want to thank my friend Representative Carlos Curbelo for taking the lead on this vital issue for our state,” Rep. Graham said. ###
08.28.2015	PANAMA CITY, Fla. – Speaking to local business leaders, students and teachers at the Rutherford High School Manufacturing and Engineering Academy, today, Representative Gwen Graham announced the Middle School Technical Education Program Act, or the Middle STEP Act, to promote career and technical education in middle schools. "Manufacturing is still the foundation of America's economy, but as technology advances, these jobs require more education and training," Rep. Graham said. "The Middle STEP Act will ensure students are more prepared to gain skilled, good-paying jobs right here in North Florida." Currently, the Department of Education spends around $1 billion on career and technical education, but lacks authorization to use the money in middle schools. The Middle STEP Act would give the Department of Education the authority to use these existing funds to start and support career and technical education in middle schools across North Florida and the country. "Students shouldn't have to wait until high school or college to learn about the opportunities they have in today's new economy," Rep. Graham said. "Exposing young people earlier to technical education will ignite a spark and interest in many students who otherwise may not be on track for a career or college." Rep. Graham said she was inspired to introduce the legislation when she learned about the Northwest Florida Manufacturers Council's work to expand career and technical training in local middle schools. The Northwest Florida Manufacturers Council (NWFMC) was formed by local businesses to address job-training needs in Northwest Florida, where many manufacturers have open positions, but can't find local workers with the skills and training required to fill them. Since its inception just two years ago, the NWFMC has teamed up with 10 local school districts to create 15 manufacturing programs that all allow students to earn credits applicable at local state colleges. "The Northwest Florida Manufacturers Council and Bay District Schools are a great example of how public-private partnerships can grow our economy and benefit everyone," Rep. Graham said. "Their manufacturing academies serve as a model for schools across the country, and I want to ensure they have the support they need." Cindy Anderson, executive director of the NWFMC, added, "Representative Graham listened to our concerns and is working to improve technical and career education here in Northwest Florida. The STEP Act will better prepare our students and grow the economy."
08.25.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Surrounded by healthcare professionals and advocates for women and children, Representative Gwen Graham announced the Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act, at Capital Area Healthy Start, today. The legislation aims to build on the successful and bipartisan Pediatric Quality Measures Program, by providing a much-needed focus on maternity-care quality and health outcomes for mothers and infants. "The Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act identifies and measures areas where healthcare for pregnant women and outcomes for infants on Medicaid can be improved," Rep. Graham said. "This is a simple bill that could dramatically improve health care for pregnant women and infants," Rep. Graham's idea to sponsor the legislation was in part spurred by a recent report in the Tallahassee Democrat that showed an increase in Leon County's infant mortality rate last year. "As a mother of three children, I can't imagine the pain a family feels when they lose a child," Rep. Graham said. "This bill is an important first step in identifying and implementing solutions to improve care and save lives in North Florida and across the country." The Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act will coordinate the federal government, states and healthcare professionals together to study Medicaid outcomes. Ultimately, the study's findings could be applied to improve care and reduce costs for Medicaid patients, as well as private insurance patients. The legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Debbie Stabenow (D – Mich.) and Chuck Grassley (R – Iowa), where it passed the Finance Committee by a unanimous voice vote. Rep. Graham plans to formally introduce the bill with a Republican co-sponsor when the House returns to session in September. Info on Healthy Start servicing Leon and Wakulla Counties In fiscal year 2014-15, 2,037 pregnant women in our area received Healthy Start services. This number represents 66.3% of all pregnant women in Leon and Wakulla counties. Also in our area, 947 newborns and their families received Healthy Start services, representing 30.8% of all babies born in the two counties during this fiscal year. Healthy Start clients receive pregnancy education, breastfeeding education and support, parenting education and support, crisis intervention support, stress management support, child developmental evaluations, smoking cessation counseling, referrals based on needs, and interconceptional care support and education. ###
08.21.2015	CHIPLEY, Fla. – Rep. Graham made another stop in her back-to-school book tour, today, with a donation of more than 200 books to the Washington County Public Library. Rep. Graham is planning on contributing a total of more than 750 books to North Florida’s rural libraries by the end of August, through the Library of Congress’s surplus book program. While at the library, Graham met with constituents and read to children. “It was an honor to present this donation and meet with constituents in Washington County, today. Our rural libraries are more than just a home for books – they’re community centers for learning,” Rep. Graham said. “The library staff here and at all our rural libraries do a great job supporting North Florida families.” The library is currently hosting Dust, Drought, and Dreams Gone Dry, a traveling exhibit created by the American Library Association and funded in part by the National Endowment for the Humanities. The Washington County Public Library is one of just 25 libraries in the country selected to host the exhibit. “We were honored that the congresswoman took time out of her busy schedule to come by and donate a wonderful collection of books,” said Library Director Renae Rountree.
08.19.2015	MARIANNA, Fla. – Representative Gwen Graham spent a Workday mixing ingredients, churning ice cream and packing containers at Southern Craft Creamery in Marianna, today. Graham, who has a long family history in the dairy industry, set out on the Workday to promote North Florida food producers and family-owned agriculture businesses. “My family started a Florida dairy farm in 1932, and my uncle helped build up the state’s industry, so today’s Workday was like coming home for me,” Rep. Graham said. “Making Ice Cream is hard work, and Southern Craft Creamery makes the very best you can buy.” Rep. Graham’s grandfather, Ernest R. Graham, started their family dairy in 1932. Her uncle, Bill Graham, played a leading role in organizing the Independent Diary Farmers Association and served as its first president. Their efforts spurred the creation of a federal milk marketing order for Florida, which allowed the state’s dairies to compete nationally. Rep. Graham is carrying on her family’s passion for agriculture and is just one of two Florida members to sit on the House Agriculture Committee. After the Workday, Dale Eade, owner of Southern Craft Creamery said, “We appreciate Representative Graham coming to our creamery and her attention to small agriculture businesses. She doesn’t shy away from hard work.” Southern Craft Creamery has been recognized by numerous publications and was selected as the 2013 Made in the South Awards overall food winner by Garden & Gun magazine. “Family agriculture businesses like the Eade’s dairy and creamery are what make North Florida great,” Rep. Graham said. “It’s an honor to sit on the Agriculture Committee and support them in Congress.” ###
08.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On her recent visit to Israel, Representative Gwen Graham met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, where they discussed her legislation to combat terrorist tunnels threatening the country. “It was an honor to meet with Prime Minister Netanyahu to discuss how we can work together to protect Israel’s borders from tunnel attacks,” Rep Graham said. “In North Florida, we support our neighbors – and America must do the same with our allies. I’m proud to stand with Israel in fighting terrorism.” In the meeting, Prime Minister Netanyahu said to Rep. Graham, “I deeply appreciate your important work to support the development of technological means to deal with the very real threat posed by terror tunnels."." The meeting took place as new reports are surfacing of terrorists preparing to launch tunnel attacks in Israel. Tuesday, The Times of Israel reported, “Hamas has dug ‘several tunnels’ into Israel, in new Iran-funded war drive,” and Haaretz wrote, “Hamas Operative Arrested by Shin Bet Reveals Tunnel Plan Leading From Gaza.” Rep. Graham successfully passed an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act, with Republican Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO), which authorizes research and development of an anti-tunneling defense system to protect Israel from terrorist attacks. Click here to read more about Rep. Graham’s anti-tunneling legislation. “I saw firsthand the threats Israeli civilians face. No one, in Israel or any other country, should have to worry about terrorists digging into their homes and kidnapping or murdering them. Working together, we can save Israel and American lives from future attacks,” Rep. Graham said. ###
08.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham and 21 of her House colleagues are on a visit to Israel to learn more about issues critical to the U.S.-Israel relationship and international security. “Serving on the House Armed Services Committee provides me with the great opportunity to fight for North Florida’s military families . It also carries the great responsibility of working to keep our country safe,” Rep. Graham said. “Vital to our national security is working with our allies – and we have no closer ally in the Middle East than Israel. This trip will provide me with firsthand knowledge of how we can strengthen our relationship and international security.” Working with Republican Rep. Doug Lamborn (CO-5), Rep. Graham successfully passed an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act which authorizes research and development of an anti-tunneling defense system to protect Israel from terrorist attacks. Click here to read more about Rep. Graham’s anti-tunneling legislation. “Israel lives under the constant threat of terrorist attacks from underground tunnels,” Rep. Graham said. “The US-Israel Anti-Tunnel Defense Cooperation Act will launch an unprecedented new initiative to protect Israel from this dangerous menace. I’m looking forward to learning more about the threat from terrorist tunnels and new advances in fighting them.” Graham and the group of House members will visit Israel and the West Bank, and meet with Israeli and Palestinian government officials, including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Israeli President Reuven Rivlin. They will also meet with U.S. Ambassador Dan Shapiro and military officials. Rep. Graham landed in Israel, today, and will be there until August 10. The visit is organized by the American Israel Education Foundation, an independent, nonprofit charitable organization. ###
07.31.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham met with North Florida Seniors at Allegro Senior Living, in Tallahassee, to celebrate Medicare’s 50th anniversary and discuss how the program has benefited them. “When Medicare was signed into law, 50 years ago, more than half of America’s seniors were without health insurance,” Rep. Graham said. “We’ve made great progress since then, and today, I heard from North Florida seniors who rely on the program for healthcare. I’m dedicated to protecting Medicare for them and for generations to come.” At the event, Rep. Graham’s office served the seniors cake to celebrate, answered questions, and provided constituent services to help with Medicare, Social Security and Veterans benefits. “Today’s seniors are part of the greatest generation. They fought for our freedom and built the middle class, and now we must be there for them – that means protecting Medicare’s promise,” Rep. Graham said. ###
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham took to the House floor to recognize the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act and Sarah Goldman, a Florida State University master’s student advocating on behalf of the ADA. “The Americans with Disabilities Act is a historic piece of legislation that prohibits discrimination against those with disabilities – giving them greater access and protections,” Rep. Graham said. “But the ADA does more than just open doors – it recognizes every individual’s ability to succeed.” CLICK HERE FOR A FULL VIDEO OF REP. GRAHAM’S FLOOR SPEECH. Full text of Rep. Graham’s floor speech: “Mr. Speaker, this past Sunday marked the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act. This historic piece of legislation prohibits discrimination against those with disabilities – giving them greater access and protections. But the ADA does more than just open doors – it recognizes every individual’s ability to succeed. Yesterday, I met with Sarah Goldman, a young woman with cerebral palsy earning her master’s degree at Florida State University. She visited my office to advocate on behalf of ADA protections. As Sarah said, we’ve made great progress in the last 25 years – but there’s still so much more work to be done. I’d like to urge the House to listen to Sarah’s words, and continue the fight to make sure all Americans are empowered to achieve their own American dreams. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
07.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham released the following statement on today’s Northwest Florida Eight-County Coalition meeting with officials from the Department of Commerce to discuss the BP settlement. “The BP settlement presents a historic opportunity for our community,” Rep. Graham said. “Leaders from both parties, at all levels of government, are rallying together with a united mission – which is truly the North Florida way. With Representative Jeff Miller, I’m committed to working as their partner in Congress to ensure we maximize the settlement funds to restore damage caused by the spill and to build new foundations for greater economic growth and prosperity.” Rep. Graham, who is in Washington for votes, today, was represented at the meeting by her district director, legislative director and economic development liaison. ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham is inviting North Florida students interested in attending our nation’s military academies to Military Academy Days to learn more about the schools and application process. The Military Academy Days will be held in Tallahassee on August 22 and in Panama City on August 29. “There is no greater honor than serving in our nation’s military,” Rep. Graham said. “Our military academies educate and train the smartest service members in the world. I encourage all students in North Florida to attend the Military Academy Days and learn more about these exceptional schools.” The five military academies are the United States Military Academy at West Point; the United States Coast Guard Academy at New London; the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis; the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point; and the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Students aspiring to attend a military academy must receive a nomination from their representative, senator or by applying directly to the vice president (with the exception of the Coast Guard Academy). Rep. Graham will attend both Academy Days to speak with students about the importance of serving in our military, and representatives from the academies will be on hand with more information about the schools. Students interested in learning more or requesting an academy nomination can also visit www.Graham.House.gov/academy, and we encourage your outlets to publish the attached informational flyer. WHAT: Military Academy DaysWHO: Rep. Gwen Graham; Representatives from military academiesWHERE/WHEN: TALLAHASSEE - City Hall – Saturday, August 22, 2:00 pm – 5:00 pm PANAMA CITY – Bay District Schools Bldg. – Saturday, August 29, 12:30 pm – 3:30 pm ###
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham welcomed Florida Agriculture and Mechanical University President Elmira Mangum to the Capitol, today, to celebrate the 125th anniversary of the Second Morrill Act of 1890, which created a network of 19 Historical Black Colleges and Universities dedicated to providing educational opportunities for all. Rep. Graham formally introduced President Mangum in the House Committee on Agriculture, where Mangum testified with presidents from historical black colleges and universities on the importance of agricultural research and education. Click here to watch Rep. Graham’s introduction. “I’m proud to have Dr. Mangum and FAMU students at the Capitol, to share the universities accomplishments with my colleagues on the Agriculture Committee,” Rep. Graham said. “We owe it to our farmers to continue supporting the institutions that keep American farming practices competitive.” Full transcript of Rep. Graham’s introduction: I am so honored to have here today, my dear friend Dr. Elmira Mangum, President of Florida A&M University, located in my District. Go Rattlers! Under Dr. Mangum’s leadership, FAMU and other 1890s institutions are leading the way in innovative research that will keep American farming practices at the forefront of the industry. FAMU has a history of excellence in Agriculture research and development and today, the university boasts programs that span a wide range of issues and impact farmers and farm practices in the U.S .and worldwide – and I have been very honored to have had the opportunity to be with President Mangum on several occasions to hear all about those. FAMU hopes to secure a land transfer agreement with USDA that would provide 3,800 additional acres for the university to expand its critical work. The land would be a training tool where new and beginning farmers will learn the latest in farm practices and biotechnology. I am proud to have you here today, Dr. Mangum, to share FAMU’s accomplishments with my colleagues on this committee. We owe it to our farmers to continue supporting the institutions that keep American farming practices competitive. Thank you for being here, and I look forward to hearing your testimony. I yield back the balance of my time. ###
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to a sharp decline in service provided by the Internal Revenue Service, Representatives Gwen Graham and Peter Roskam (R-IL) sent a bipartisan letter to Treasury Secretary Jack Lew asking him to review this year’s performance by the IRS and provide options for improving service to taxpayers. “I’ve made constituent services a priority, and that doesn’t just mean how well my office operates – it means making all of government more responsive,” Rep. Graham said. “There’s no excuse for forcing taxpayers to wait hours on the phone for help or for hanging up on their calls. The IRS can and must do better to help North Floridian’s seeking help.” The letter cites several reported instances of inadequate service, including unacceptably long wait times to speak with an IRS agent on the telephone, an increase in the amount of times the IRS hung up on callers, and a wait time of up to six hours for tax professionals seeking assistance on the Practitioner Priority Service line. “We wouldn’t accept this poor customer service from a private business, and we shouldn’t tolerate it from government,” Rep. Graham said. “This isn’t a Democratic or Republican issue, it’s about making government work better for everyone. I hope bringing these problems to the attention of Secretary Lew will result in new effort to provide better service to America’s taxpayers” Graham and Roskame were joined by 45 additional co-signers from both parties, including Patrick Tiberi (R-OH), Steve Stivers (R-OH), Rob Bishop (R-UT), Louie Gohmert (R-TX), Brian Babin (R-TX), Steve King (R-IA), John Moolenaar (R-MI), David Schweikert (R-AZ), Kay Granger (R-TX), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Ryan Costello (R-PA), Steve Pearce (R-NM), Randy Hultgren (R-IL), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Luke Messer (R-IN), Dennis Ross (R-FL), David Young (R-IA), Mike Bishop (R-MI), Tim Walberg (R-MI), John Katko (R-NY), Jim Renacci (R-OH), Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Denny Heck (D-WA), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Jim Costa (D-CA), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Rod Blum (R-IA), J. Randy Forbes (R-VA), Tom Reed (R-NY), Ami Bera (D-CA), Jim Cooper (D-TN), Peter Welch (D-VT), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) and John Carney (D-DE). ###
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham took to the House floor to recognize and honor the Rev. Dr. Bernyce Clausell, a North Florida civil rights leader and trailblazer for women, who passed away last week at the age of 98. CLICK HERE FOR A FULL VIDEO OF REP. GRAHAM’S FLOOR SPEECH. Full text of Rep. Graham’s floor speech: “Mr. Speaker, today I rise to honor the late Bernyce Clausell, who passed away at the age of 98-years old, last week. “She was a civil rights leader in Tallahassee who participated in the bus boycotts of 1956. She was a devout Christian who, with her husband, founded Calvary Baptist Church in 1958. And later she became the church’s pastor – one of the first women to do so in Tallahassee. She was a fixture at town hall meetings and charity drives; and she was always there to help those in need. “We lost a true North Florida hero – but I’m so thankful that we had her for so long. May god bless Pastor Bernyce Clausell – and may he bless each of us with the strength and dedication to serve our communities as well as she did. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
07.03.2015	PANAMA CITY BEACH, Fla. – Representative Gwen Graham spent a Workday checking in guests, bell hopping luggage, and cleaning rooms at the Sugar Sands Inn and Suites Hotel in Panama City Beach, today. Graham learned firsthand what it's like to work in the hospitality industry, while also promoting North Florida's beautiful beaches and summer tourism season. “I wanted to do this Workday to promote Panama City’s beaches and our great tourism industry,” Rep. Graham said. “There’s no better place to spend July Fourth weekend than Panama City.” Graham and her family have spent time in Panama City Beach since she was a young girl. Her Workdays are a tradition she’s carrying on from her father, Governor Bob Graham, who also performed a Workday as a hotel bellhop in 1977. “It’s amazing to see how many people it takes to make a hotel work. Everyone I met was focused on the same mission,” Rep. Graham said. “We need to do the same thing in Washington – work together to get things done for our country.” Tomorrow, Representative Gwen Graham will remain in Bay County to march in the Lynn Haven Fourth of July Parade. ###
07.01.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham sent a letter to the Social Security Administration urging the agency to reopen the Gadsden field office and restore access to the in-person services the community has come to expect and rely on. Rep. Graham also criticized SSA for closing the Gadsden County Social Security field office without public input and little warning to the community. “I’ve heard first-hand from constituents across Gadsden County who have been negatively impacted by the office closure,” Rep. Graham said. “These seniors have worked all their lives and paid into Social Security – now, when they need it most, we must be there to help them.” A full copy of Rep. Graham’s letter to acting Social Security Commissioner Carolyn W. Colvin can be viewed, here . ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Gwen Graham made the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold tax-credit subsidies for middle-class purchasers of health insurance through federal exchanges. “This ruling means thousands of middle-class families in the Second Congressional District will keep their tax credits and pay less for the private health insurance they purchase,” Rep. Graham said. “There's still more to be done to make Obamacare work better for North Florida, and I'm committed to working with Democrats and Republicans to fix this law." In Congress, Rep. Graham is following through on her campaign pledge to make Obamacare work better for North Florida and has supported numerous bipartisan proposals to improve the law. ###
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Gwen Graham joined the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 160, the Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2015, which would repeal Obamacare’s Medical Device Tax. Without this important reform, the Medical Device Tax will mandate more than $20 billion in new taxes on medical devices – taxes which would inevitably be passed onto patients needing lifesaving care. “Our country can’t afford to stifle medical innovation with new taxes, nor can North Florida patients afford to pay more for healthcare,” Rep. Graham said. “I’m proud to support this legislation which will spur innovation and lower the cost of healthcare for North Florida families and seniors.” Following through on her campaign promise to make Obamacare work better for North Florida, Rep. Graham was an original co-sponsor of the legislation and joined forty-five other Democrats in supporting the bipartisan reform. “I’m for keeping the good and fixing the bad parts of Obamacare,” Rep. Graham said. “We all agree we need to keep insurance companies from discriminating against people, and we need to continue to work on lowering costs, but taxing lifesaving medical devices is more harmful than helpful for patients in North Florida. This legislation will fix that problem without repealing the good parts of healthcare reform.” ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Gwen Graham (FL-2) and David Jolly (FL-13) introduced HR 2630, bipartisan legislation to extend the ban on oil drilling in the eastern Gulf of Mexico through the year 2027. The drilling ban extends 125 miles off much of Florida’s Gulf Coast and as far as 235 miles in some areas , but is set to expire in 2022. (VIDEO: Graham Speaks on Legislation) “The Panhandle knows all too well the devastating effects an oil spill can have on our state,” Rep. Graham said. “Keeping our Gulf waters and beaches free from drilling is vital to protecting our environment, our economy and the military in Northwest Florida.” Graham and Jolly are seeking to re-affirm and extend the ban in the House with legislation similar to a bill filed by Sen. Bill Nelson (FL) in the Senate, at the same time lawmakers from other Gulf Coast states are working to reduce the barrier to just 50 miles from Florida’s beaches. “The Deepwater Horizon oil spill occurred 180 miles from Panama City, and we had minimal oil reach our beaches – but it still cost Northwest Florida’s economy hundreds of millions of dollars,” Rep. Graham said. “Imagine what would happen with a spill just 50 miles from our coast.” Rep. David Jolly, added “It is paramount that we take steps to continue protecting our pristine beaches, our fisheries, our marine sanctuaries, and coastal communities from the impact of increased drilling in the eastern Gulf and devastating events like the Deepwater Horizon oil spill of 2010. An oil spill off the Coast of Pinellas County would be disastrous to our quality of life and our local economy. We must ensure that we do not put our Gulf Coast at greater risk by drilling closer to our shores.” In addition to protecting our beaches and tourism economy, the ban also protects mission-critical defense activities at Pensacola’s Eglin Air Force Base, Panama City’s Tyndall Air Force Base and Naval Support Activity Panama City, which require thousands of acres of open airspace over the Gulf’s waters. ###
05.29.2015	Quincy, Fla. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham delivered more than 170 books to the Quincy Public Library in Gadsden County to encourage students to engage in summer reading. The books are a donation from the Library of Congress’s Surplus Books Program. “It was such an honor to bring these books down from the Library of Congress to our local library here in North Florida,” Rep. Graham said. “I hope this will help encourage parents and families to bring their children to the library and keep them reading throughout the summer.” The Library of Congress has available at all times, for donation to eligible organizations and institutions, surplus books which are not needed for the Library's own uses. Eligible organizations and institutions must be located in the United States and either an educational institution: school, school system, college, university, museum, or public library. ###
05.26.2015	APALACHICOLA, Fla. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham (FL-02) announced the Apalachicola Bay Restoration Act to save the North Florida bay famous for its fresh oysters. The legislation has 21 Florida co-sponsors, an unprecedented sign of unity and statewide support to save the bay. The Apalachicola Bay has historically been one of the most productive bays in the country, but recently has suffered from a lack of fresh water flow which hurts the bay’s ecology, oyster industry and local economy. Rep. Graham’s bill will require the Army Corps of Engineers to consider fresh water flow to the Apalachicola Bay in their water management plans. “The Apalachicola Bay represents the heart and soul of North Florida. This isn’t just a fight over water – we’re fighting to save a way of life,” Rep. Graham said. “This legislation is an important step to restoring fresh water flow and restoring our bay.” At the press conference, Apalachicola Riverkeeper Dan Tonsmeire added, “Representative Graham has been at work on the Apalachicola since the early days of her campaign and has not slowed down since. We have a lot to thank her for and here today she has brought us together to further consider the path forward.” Rep. Graham announced the legislation after performing a Workday shelling the bay and harvesting alongside local oystermen. Graham’s Workdays are a family tradition her father, Senator Bob Graham, started while running for governor in 1977. Click here for photos of Rep. Graham’s Workday. Rep. Vern Buchanan (FL-16), the bill’s lead Republican co-sponsor, said, “Apalachicola Bay is a critical part of Florida’s environment and economy. With the right management and conservation efforts, we can save it from total collapse. This bipartisan bill represents an important part of that solution.” The legislation is also cosponsored by Representatives Jeff Miller (FL-01) ,Ted Yoho (FL-03) ,Corrine Brown (FL-05), Ron DeSantis (FL-06) , Alan Grayson (FL-09), Richard Nugent (FL-11), David Jolly (FL-13), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Dennis Ross (FL-15), Thomas Rooney (FL-17), Patrick Murphy (FL-18), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Lois Frankel (FL-22), Debbie Wasserman Schultz ( FL-23), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Mario Diaz Balart (FL-25), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27). “Members of the Florida delegation from across the state are rallying to save the bay,” Rep. Graham said. “This shows how much we can achieve as a united delegation with a bipartisan attitude.”
05.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Representative Gwen Graham joined a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers in the House of Representatives to pass a package of three bills to help our nation’s veterans. The bills range from making it easier for veterans to receive discounts at private companies to assistance for veteran-owned small businesses. A full list and details of veterans bills passed included below. “Our freedom is dependent on the men and women who risk their lives to defend our country,” Rep. Graham said. “These common sense bills will help North Florida veterans and their families use the benefits they earned serving in our military.” 1) H.R. 91 – Veteran’s I.D. Card Act Veterans are often eligible for discounts on goods, services and other promotional activities if they provide proof of service. However, currently, veteran ID cards are only issued to veterans who have either completed the 20-year retirement requirement or who have received a medical-related discharge. This bill requires the VA to issue an ID card to any honorably discharged veteran who requests one. 2) H.R. 1313 – Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business Relief Act Currently, a surviving spouse of a veteran who remains unmarried and retains ownership of the deceased veteran’s business are given preferred status when competing for federal contracts for 10 years after the date of the veteran's death, but only if the veteran had a disability rated as 100% disabling or died as a result of a service-connected disability. This bill would allow a surviving spouse of a veteran who has a service-connected disability rating of less than 100%, and who does not die because of the service-connected disability, to retain the veteran's small business preferred status for up to three years after the veteran's death. 3) H.R. 1382 – Boosting Rates of American Veteran Employment Act This bill authorizes the Veterans Affairs Department to give preference to private contractors that employ veterans.
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Freshman Congresswoman Gwen Graham saw three of her major initiatives pass the House of Representatives, today, as part of the National Defense Authorization Act. The legislation contained Graham’s US-Israel Anti-Tunnel Defense Cooperation Act; support for military divers; and a portion of the VETS Act. “The government’s first and foremost duty is to keep our nation safe. I’m proud to support the National Defense Authorization Act, which will ensure our military remains the strongest on earth,” Rep. Graham said. “I’m also proud this legislation contains important elements of bills I’ve sponsored to recognize military divers, help our veterans and strengthen our bond with Israel.” The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) is comprehensive legislation passed each year by Congress to authorize the budget authority of the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. The NDAA is the primary legislation through which Congress exercises their obligation to provide defense for our nation. Rep. Graham with Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO) passed an amendment to the bill to authorize research and development of an anti-tunneling defense system to protect Israel from terrorist attacks. The legislation is similar to the 2011 legislative authorization for the highly successful Iron Dome Anti-Missile Defense System, which has stopped more than 1,200 rockets from hitting Israel. “Passing the US-Israel Anti-Tunnel Defense Cooperation Act in my first five months shows how much we can accomplish when Democrats and Republicans work together,” Rep. Graham said. “This legislation will help our country and our closest ally in the Middle East, Israel, defend our borders and bases against terrorists attacks.” ###
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham joined Florida Representatives Patrick E. Murphy (FL-18) Bill Posey (FL-08), Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), Lois Frankel (FL-22) and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) in filing legislation to prohibit seismic testing for oil drilling along Florida’s Atlantic coast. Seismic testing is the first step in an effort to begin offshore drilling along the coasts of Florida. Under current law, offshore drilling is prohibited off the Gulf Coast only. Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) has introduced the companion legislation the U.S. Senate. "North Florida felt first-hand the devastating effects an oil spill can have on our coast's beaches, economy and way of life," Rep. Graham said. "I'm committed to working with Republicans and Democrats in Florida's delegation to ban offshore oil drilling and protect our state's most important natural resources." The bill would reverse a July, 2014, decision by the Obama Administration to open the Atlantic Ocean, from Virginia to Florida, for seismic testing for future drilling sites. “I was involved in the cleanup efforts following the BP oil spill in the Gulf Coast, and I refuse to sit by while Florida’s east coast could potentially be threatened from the devastating effects of offshore drilling.” said Rep. Murphy. “There is near-universal agreement in Florida that Atlantic offshore drilling is a bad idea. I will continue to work with members of our Congressional delegation, as well as state officials, to prevent protect our coastline and way of life.” “There are strong concerns that these seismic activities can be harmful to undersea mammals like dolphins, disrupting their ability to communicate and navigate. This legislation enacts a moratorium off Florida’s coast so we can study the effects of seismic testing on our sea life,” said Congressman Bill Posey. ###
04.30.2015	MARIANNA, Fla. – Today Representative Gwen Graham declared 11th-grader Natalee Milton, of Marianna High School, the winner of the Second Congressional District Art Competition in a surprise announcement at the school. Graham’s district director surprised Natalie with a call from Rep. Graham, who is serving in Washington this week. The competition was judged by Amanda Thompson, education and exhibitions director of the Council on Culture and Arts. Natalie’s painting was chosen for its technical prowess and for reflecting North Florida’s coastal and fishing culture. Along with being recognized in North Florida, Natalie also has the opportunity to be recognized in Washington, with a free flight to the capitol provided by Southwest Airlines. “I’m proud to recognize Natalie Milton as the winner of the Second Congressional District’s Art Competition,” Rep. Graham said. “Natalie’s talent exceeds far beyond painting, and I’m sure she will go on to achieve many future successes in art and life.” Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Since the Artistic Discovery competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. Students submit entries to their representative’s office, and district artists select the winning entries. Winners are recognized both in their district and at an annual awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. The winning works are displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. ###
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Representatives Gwen Graham (D-FL) and Doug Lamborn (R-CO) combined their bipartisan US-Israel Anti-Tunneling bills as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The amendment was added to the NDAA by a unanimous voice vote, and will authorize research and development of an anti-tunneling defense system to protect Israel from terrorist attacks. The Lamborn-Graham amendment, which combines language from Graham’s H.R. 1349, the US-Israel Anti-Tunnel Defense Cooperation Act and Laborn’s H.R. 1649, is similar to the 2011 legislative authorization for the highly successful Iron Dome Anti-Missile Defense System, which has stopped more than 1,200 rockets from hitting Israel. “Our closest ally in the Middle East – Israel – lives under the constant threat of terrorist attacks from underground tunnel,” Rep. Graham said. “The US-Israel Anti-Tunnel Defense Cooperation Act will launch an unprecedented new initiative to protect Israel from this dangerous menace. To secure peace, we must first help Israel secure their state from attacks. Iron Dome has saved countless civilian lives, and an anti-tunneling defense shield will save countless more.” Rep. Lamborn added, “Tunnels are an age-old threat that have re-emerged in a very dangerous way. We know that if Hamas has used tunnels in successful terrorist attacks, it is only a matter of time before terrorists elsewhere use tunnels as well. Tunnels are a threat to American bases and embassies around the world, and are already a serious threat on our own southern border. For all these reasons, it only makes sense to partner with Israel, like we have done on missile defense, to learn with them about how to defend against tunnels.” The terrorist group, Hamas, has spent nearly $100 million to construct tunnels for smuggling weapons, money and supplies into Gaza, as well as launching terrorist attacks within Israel’s borders. In 2006, Hamas kidnapped Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit through a tunnel and held him for five years, and in the summer 2014 conflict between Israel and Hamas, Israel Defense Forces discovered 32 tunnels, 14 of which crossed directly into Israel. The bipartisan legislation is endorsed by AIPAC, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. In addition to helping Israel secure its borders, the anti-tunneling defense technology discovered in this joint project could also be used to protect American military bases and our nation’s borders with Mexico and Canada. “This bill, which authorizes research, development and test activities between the United States and Israel in order to better detect and destroy these tunnels, will help both the United States and Israel defend against future threats emanating from tunnels,” AIPAC’s directors of government affairs wrote in an endorsement letter. “This bill promotes real cooperation and cost-sharing between Washington and Jerusalem on this key challenge.” ###
04.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham (FL-02) joined representatives Alma S. Adams (D-NC-12) and Bradley Byrne (R-AL-1) today to launch the Bipartisan Congressional Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Caucus. The Bipartisan Congressional HBCU Caucus’ mission is to highlight and address unique challenges that HBCUs face; and to make sure their needs are heard and recognized on Capitol Hill. The Bipartisan Congressional HBCU Caucus is an official caucus approved by the House Administration Committee in the 114th Congress. “I’m proud to represent Florida A&M University, one of our state’s most historic and important universities,” Rep. Graham said. “Forming the Bipartisan Congressional Historical Black College and Universities Caucus will help Democrats and Republicans work together to represent these vital institutions across our country.” The purpose of the Bipartisan HBCU Caucus is to promote and protect the interests of HBCUs. Together, members of the caucus, will work to create a national dialogue, educating other members of Congress and their staffs about the issues impacting HBCUs. The caucus will also work to draft meaningful bipartisan legislation to address the needs of HBCUs, and to support students and graduates of HBCUs by increasing access and career opportunities. “FAMU honors U.S. Rep. Graham and her colleagues who have exhibited great courage and support for our mission by forming this caucus,” said FAMU President Elmira Mangum, Ph.D. “For more than a hundred years, HBCUs like FAMU have served as a gateway of opportunity for underserved communities and diverse populations. I look forward to working with the caucus to advance and sustain our institution and the HBCU Community.” There are more than 100 HBCUs in the United States that enroll more than 300,000 students per year. HBCUs represent 3 percent of colleges and universities, yet graduate 20 percent of African Americans with undergraduate degrees – and 25 percent of African American degrees in science, technology, engineering and math fields. Florida A&M University is the nation’s top producer of African Americans at the bachelor degree level. Read more about the university here. There are 37 founding members of the Bipartisan Congressional HBCU Caucus. Current Members include: Reps. Alma Adams (D-NC), Bradley Byrne (R-AL), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Jim Clyburn (D-SC), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Shelia Jackson Lee (D-TX), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), David Price (D-NC), Mark Walker (R-NC), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Mo Brooks (R-AL), John Lewis (D-GA), Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Randy Forbes (R-VA), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Stacey Plaskett (D-VI), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Gwen Graham (D-FL), Lacy Clay (D-MO) Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Jared Polis (D-CO), Mark Veasey (D-TX), Richard Hudson (R-NC) and Walter Jones (R-NC). ###
04.24.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Representative Gwen Graham spoke at the North Florida Homeless Veterans Stand Down event today, and announced the Department of Veterans Affairs is expanding eligibility for the Veterans Choice Program, effective immediately. The annual North Florida Homeless Veterans Stand Down transforms the North Florida Fairgrounds into a military atmosphere where veterans can receive legal advice, medical care and learn about housing options from an array of government and charitable organizations. Click here to read more about the Stand Down event. “It’s amazing to see our entire community come together to help veterans in need,” Rep. Graham said. “Our freedom is dependent on those who risk their lives to defend our country, and they need to know we have their backs when they return home.” At the Stand Down, Rep. Graham announced expansion of the Veterans Choice Program, which allows veterans who live more than 40 miles from a VA facility to seek care from non-VA medical facilities. The Department of Veterans Affairs is changing their eligibility requirements from straight-line distance to driving distance between a veteran’s place of residence and the nearest VA medical facility, roughly doubling the number of eligible veterans. “No veteran should have to wait for care or drive hours to see a doctor,” Rep. Graham said. “I applaud the VA for taking action and expanding care for more of our heroes.” Letters are being sent to the newly eligible veterans to let them know they are now eligible for the Veterans Choice Program under this expansion. If a veteran does not remember receiving a Veterans Choice Card or has other questions about the Choice Program, he or she can call (866) 606-8198. ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham took to the House Floor, today, to recognize Warrior Beach Retreat, a local North Florida nonprofit, dedicated to honoring our nation’s combat-wounded warriors and their caregivers. Warrior Beach Retreat was started by Linda Cope, after her son Sargent Joshua Cope, was severely wounded by an IED blast in Baghdad, Iraq. Two weeks each year, the organization holds a parade and beach retreat for wounded warriors, their families and caregivers – this year’s spring retreat started Wednesday, April 14. Read more about Warrior Beach Retreat, here. Click here for video of Rep. Graham’s speech on the House floor. Full text of Rep. Graham’s floor speech: “Mr. Speaker, today I rise to recognize Warrior Beach Retreat, a North Florida charity dedicated to supporting our combat wounded warriors, their families and caregivers. “The organization was established by Linda Cope after her son, Sargent Joshua Cope, was severely wounded by an IED blast in Baghdad, Iraq, on November 12, 2006. “The Cope family turned tragedy into triumph, and twice a year Warrior Beach Retreat welcomes 50 wounded warriors and their caregivers to Panama City with a parade and a week-long retreat dedicated to honoring their service and sacrifice. “I wish I could be with them in Panama City today to welcome these brave wounded warriors, but unable to do that I’d like to officially recognize Warrior Beach Retreat in the record and thank them on behalf of our North Florida community for all the hard work they do for our veterans.” ###
04.09.2015	CHIPLEY, Fla. – Living up to her campaign promise to continue performing Workdays and protect North Florida jobs, Rep. Gwen Graham spent today working alongside textile factory staff at WestPoint Home in Chipley, and announced her fourth major piece of legislation, the Northwest Florida Jobs Certainty Act. "Too many textile and manufacturing jobs have left our country to be shipped overseas," Rep. Graham said. "The Northwest Florida Jobs Certainty Act will save more than 250 good-paying manufacturing jobs right here in the Second Congressional District." Rep. Graham spent her Workday sewing and stuffing comforters and packaging trucks at WestPoint Home, the last major home textiles producer in the country. "I'm honored for the opportunity to work alongside the men and women of WestPoint Home," Rep. Graham said. "We need to do everything we can to level the playing field, protect these jobs and create more manufacturing work in North Florida." After her Workday, she spoke to factory staff about her new legislation, the Northwest Florida Jobs Certainty Act, which extends a free trade provision between the United States and Bahrain that is vital for workers at the factory. Without the extension, the trade agreement expires in June of 2016, risking more than 250 jobs at the factory. The bipartisan legislation was previously introduced by Rep. Southerland and is co-sponsored by neighboring Rep. Jeff Miller. "I appreciate the work Representative Southerland and his staff did on this bill in the last Congress," Rep. Graham said. "Working with Jeff Miller and the bipartisan Florida delegation, I'm hopeful we can pass the Northwest Florida Jobs Certainty Act and save these jobs." Steve Alford, VP of Manufacturing for WestPoint Home, added, "Working alongside our staff, Representative Graham learned firsthand how hard we're working in Northwest Florida. Her enthusiasm and desire to learn about WestPoint Home created moments we're never going to forget," Steve Alford, VP of manufacturing, said. "And we appreciate the hard work she's doing fighting to save these Northwest Florida jobs." ###
04.06.2015	MARIANNA, Fla. — The Jackson County Farm Bureau hosted a meet and greet and lunch with Rep. Gwen Graham, today, to discuss issues facing farmers and rural communities in North Florida. Rep. Graham met with local high school students in the Agriculture Leadership Program and representatives from the Florida Farm Bureau, Jackson County Farm Bureau, USDA, Florida Peanut Association and Farm Credit Union. “Farmers and rural communities make up the backbone of North Florida,"Rep. Graham said to farmers at that lunch. “I’m dedicated to working with Democrats and Republicans to protect our farming heritage and make sure young farmers are able to stay and work in our community.” Rep. Graham’s experience with agriculture isn’t new – her roots in farming are deep. Her family first moved to Florida to farm the land, and the Graham family continues operating dairy, cattle and pecan farms in Florida and Georgia. Ken Barton, executive director of the Florida Peanut Producers Association, said, "Whenever I see Representative Graham, I'm always impressed by how willing she is to work with Republicans and Democrats on behalf of Florida's farming community." On her campaign, Rep. Graham prioritized agriculture and served her second Workday on the Alford Peanut farm here in Jackson County. After her election and upon being sworn in to Congress, Rep. Graham requested to serve on the House Agriculture Committee. Along with our neighboring Representative Ted Yoho, Graham is the only other Floridian on the Agriculture Committee. She’s dedicated to working with Republicans and Democrats to protect farmers and our rural agriculture communities.
04.03.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Rep. Gwen Graham met with doctors and administrators at Tallahassee Memorial Hospital, yesterday, to discuss issues the hospital faces, and her recent vote to strengthen Medicare for North Florida seniors. “Tallahassee Memorial Hospital is a vital institution to our community,” Rep. Graham said. “Almost everyone I know has been helped by the hospital, including my family – two of my own children were born here.” At the meeting, Representative Graham discussed proposals to expand the hospital’s residency program and their expansion into telemedicine to help rural North Florida communities. “Tallahassee Memorial helps patients seeking care across North Florida. Their advances into telemedicine will help improve care for at risk populations in small and rural communities,” Rep. Graham said. Rep. Graham also discussed with doctors her recent bipartisan vote to strengthen Medicare. Last week, Graham joined a bipartisan majority of 180 House Democrats and 212 Republicans to pass a comprehensive fix to strengthen Medicare for North Florida’s seniors. The new legislation replaces an outdated SGR payment system, which has threatened seniors to lose their doctors, and cost the government $160 billion. “In North Florida, when we see a problem, we find permanent solutions," Rep. Graham said. "Congress has spent years kicking the can down the road on fixing payments for Medicare providers. This bipartisan legislation is a permanent solution that renews doctors' incentives to continue seeing Medicare patients and, and ensures seniors who depend on Medicare continue to receive the care they deserve." Statement from Mark O’Bryant, President & CEO of TMH, on Rep. Graham’s visit: “We were heartened to hear of Congresswoman Graham’s deep concern about improving health care, especially for those in the rural areas served by her and by Tallahassee Memorial HealthCare. Our discussion ranged from expanding residency programs to how we can best use the exciting promise of telemedicine. We were impressed with her focus on how these programs, and others, can best meet the needs of her constituents.” ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Finally addressing a problem Congress has refused to fix for nearly two decades, Representative Gwen Graham joined a bipartisan coalition of 180 Democrats and 212 Republicans to pass HR 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015. The legislation permanently fixes Medicare’s sustainable growth rate formula, which has threatened to cause doctors to leave the Medicare system and drop Medicare patients. Instituted in 1997, the payment formula has needed 17 short-term patches over the last decade, hurting access to health care for seniors, and costing taxpayers more than $160 billion. The payment formula routinely endangers seniors’ ability to see their doctors, and it is past time for a permanent replacement. “In North Florida, when we see a problem, we find permanent solutions," Rep. Graham said. "Congress has spent years kicking the can down the road on fixing payments for Medicare providers. This bipartisan legislation is a permanent solution that renews doctors' incentives to continue seeing Medicare patients and, and ensures seniors who depend on Medicare continue to receive the care they deserve." In the Second Congressional District more than 111,000 seniors depend on Medicare. The legislation is especially important to North Florida’s rural counties, where it will ensure seniors have continued access to the doctors, hospitals and medical care they depend on. In addition to strengthening Medicare, the bill has two other components important to North Florida – it extends CHIP, the Children’s Health Insurance Program; and it reauthorizes Secure Rural School payments, which are vital to schools in Franklin, Liberty and Wakulla counties. "This legislation strengthens Medicare, helps families find affordable health coverage for their children, and provides funding for North Florida’s rural schools," Rep. Graham said. "This is the kind of common sense, bipartisan legislation that voters — Republicans and Democrats — expect us to pass." North Florida Senior Margaret Stalvey, of Havana, commented , "Gwen Graham is following through on her promise to protect Medicare. Now I have the security of knowing I can keep my doctors and continue to receive the high-level quality care I expect from Medicare." The bill was supported by a wide coalition of groups, including the American Medical Association, the Florida Medical Association, the Federation of American Hospitals, the American Association of Nurse Practitioners, the Capital Medical Society, the United Way, and SEIU. “Medicare's flawed SGR has been bad for physicians and worse for our seniors. I applaud Representative Gwen Graham's effort to work toward a permanent solution. A repeal of SGR is necessary to provide physicians with the stability they need to improve patient care and medical outcomes,” said Joshua Somerset, M.D., president of the Capital Medical Society in Tallahassee. Alan Pillersdorf, M.D., president of the Florida Medical Association, added, “Rep. Gwen Graham’s vote to strengthen Medicare will ensure North Florida’s doctors can continue to see their Medicare patients, and that seniors will receive the care they deserve.” ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Graham, the first woman to represent the Second Congressional District, followed through on another campaign promise by co-sponsoring the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation which would help close the wage gap between men and women working the same jobs. On average, women make just 78 cents for every dollar made by a man. “As a mother with a daughter in the workforce, this issue is personal for me. I grew up working in a changing era – she deserves to work in a changed one,” Rep. Graham said. “Everyone deserves the chance to succeed through hard work. It’s what the American Dream is all about.” The Paycheck Fairness Act builds upon the landmark Equal Pay Act signed into law in 1963 by closing loopholes that have kept it from achieving its goal of equal pay. The bill prohibits employer retaliation for sharing salary information – under current law, employers can sue and punish employees for sharing such information. It also strengthens remedies for pay discrimination and requires employers to show pay disparity is truly related to job performance, not gender. “Paycheck fairness isn’t just a women’s issue, it’s important for all North Florida families trying to get ahead. It’s time for Congress to pass this important legislation and give women and working families the equal playing field they deserve.” ###
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Gwen Graham (D-FL) and Doug Lamborn (R-CO) announced H.R. 1349, the US-Israel Anti-Tunnel Defense Cooperation Act, to authorize research and development of an anti-tunneling defense system to protect Israel from terrorist attacks. “Every day, our closest ally in the Middle East – Israel – lives under the constant threat of terrorist attacks launched from underground tunnels,” Rep. Graham said. “The US-Israel Anti-Tunnel Defense Cooperation Act will authorize an unprecedented new initiative to protect Israel from this dangerous threat.” The US-Israel Anti-Tunnel Defense Cooperation Act is similar to the 2011 legislative authorization for the highly successful Iron Dome Anti-Missile Defense System, which has stopped more than 1,200 rockets from hitting Israel. Rep. Doug Lamborn added, "This past summer Iron Dome, the joint U.S.- Israel developed technology, saved thousands of Israeli citizens’ lives. Now, Hamas and other terrorist groups are taking to the underground tunnels. This is a challenge not only to Israel but to the U.S. as well. I hope that this cooperation with Israel will emulate the success of Iron Dome so that we can find a solution that will protect American and Israeli lives." The terrorist group, Hamas, has spent nearly $100 million to construct tunnels for smuggling weapons, money and supplies into Gaza, as well as launching terrorist attacks within Israel’s borders. In 2006, Hamas kidnapped Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit through a tunnel and held him for five years, and in the summer 2014 conflict between Israel and Hamas, Israel Defense Forces discovered 32 tunnels, 14 of which crossed directly into Israel. “To secure peace, we must first help Israel secure their state from terrorist attacks,” Rep. Graham said. “Iron Dome has saved countless civilian lives, and I believe an anti-tunneling defense shield will save countless more.” The bipartisan legislation is endorsed by AIPAC, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. In addition to helping Israel secure its borders, the anti-tunneling defense technology discovered in this joint project could also be used to protect American military bases and our nation’s borders with Mexico and Canada. “This bill, which authorizes research, development and test activities between the United States and Israel in order to better detect and destroy these tunnels, will help both the United States and Israel defend against future threats emanating from tunnels,” AIPAC’s directors of government affairs wrote in an endorsement letter. “This bill promotes real cooperation and cost-sharing between Washington and Jerusalem on this key challenge.”
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives John Fleming, M.D., (R-LA) and Gwen Graham (D-FL) have introduced H.R. 1397, the Seniors' Tax Simplification Act, to allow for a new simplified tax form for seniors. “Government should be in the businesses of helping people, not making their lives harder,” Rep. Graham said. “The Seniors Tax Simplification Act is a common sense idea that will make it easier for seniors across North Florida to file their taxes. “ Under current law, seniors who collect Social Security aren’t able to file a 1040EZ and are forced to file more complicated tax forms – even though their finances are often simple. The Seniors' Tax Simplification Act would create one simple form, the 1040SR, for seniors who may receive the majority of their income through social security benefits. The bill would also lower the cost of compliance. “The Seniors' Tax Simplification Act is a common-sense, bipartisan and long overdue piece of legislation. I’m delighted to re-introduce it and look forward to its passage,” Rep. Fleming said. “No one looks forward to tax season, and it’s time we make the process a little simpler – especially for our nation’s seniors.” “I’m proud to be the lead cosponsor on this bipartisan legislation to help seniors,” Rep. Graham added. “It’s time for Republicans and Democrats to come together and pass this commonsense bill.” This legislation has been endorsed by the Association of Mature American Citizens (AMAC), and the National Taxpayers Union (NTU). ###
03.10.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham announced her second piece of legislation, H.R. 1339, the Congressional Travel Perks Elimination Act. The Congressional Travel Perks Elimination Act will ban members of Congress from using tax dollars to pay for first-class airfare or long-term personal car leases. In July of 2014, Graham signed a pledge to reject wasteful Congressional perks being abused in Washington. The Congressional Travel Perks Elimination Act is the first in a series of anti-perk bills Rep. Graham plans to introduce to follow through on that campaign promise. "Nine months ago, I pledged if elected I would work to end wasteful Congressional perks. Today, I'm following through on that promise," Rep. Graham said. "It's a commonsense idea that Republicans and Democrats can both agree on: members of Congress shouldn't be able to charge taxpayers for first-class airfare or long-term personal car leases." Reporting has shown at times, more than 100 members of Congress use tax dollars to pay for long-term personal cars leases — some ranging as high as $825 a month. By banning this perk, the legislation could save taxpayers millions of dollars. "I don't know anyone in North Florida with an $800 car lease, and the taxpayers here certainly shouldn't be paying for a member of Congress to have such an overpriced perk," Rep. Graham said. The legislation is supported by Republicans and Democrats, and has a Republican co-sponsor in the House. ###
03.08.2015	SELMA, Ala. – Representative Gwen Graham traveled to Selma, Alabama, this weekend, to mark the 50th anniversary of the Bloody Sunday Attack on the Edmund Pettus Bridge. Graham attended a service at Brown Chapel AME Church, a wreath-laying ceremony at the Civil Rights Memorial, and she joined Rep. John Lewis in a march across the landmark bridge. “It was an honor to join Rep. John Lewis and civil rights leaders in a march across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma," Rep. Graham said. "We march to honor the hard work and sacrifice of those who crossed before us 50 years ago -- and when we honor the past, we also shine a light on the work still to be done to advance full equality and civil rights in our country." The Bloody Sunday attack occurred on March 7, 1965, when John Lewis and Hosea Williams led a group of 600 African Americans from Brown Chapel AME Church six blocks and across the Edmund Pettus Bridge. Alabama's State Public Safety Director Al Lingo ordered armed troopers to attack the marchers, hospitalizing 50.
03.04.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Representative Gwen Graham is announcing her office will hold regular mobile office hours in the 12 rural and small counties in the Second Congressional District. The mobile offices are in addition to two permanent offices in Panama City and Tallahassee, and will begin on Tuesday, March 10. “I’m proud to announce regular office hours in all 14 counties,” Rep. Graham said. “The 12 small and rural counties in our district make up the backbone of North Florida and deserve the same full access and services as Bay and Leon counties.” At the mobile office hours, Rep. Graham’s staff will be available to hear constituent concerns and assist them with problems they may be having with federal agencies. Rep. Graham will also frequently attend the rural county office hours. Just two months into her first term, Rep. Graham’s office has already helped dozens of constituents resolve Veterans Affairs, Social Security and Medicare issues. “Constituent services are a top priority for my office. If you’re struggling with a problem, then it’s a big problem to you – so it matters to me, as well., ” Rep. Graham said. “I want every single person in North Florida to know, it doesn’t matter if you’re in a big or small county, if you vote Republican or Democrat, my office is ready to help everyone.” Attached to this document are an office hours schedule and calendars for March and April. Our office asks that you please publish hours relevant to your readers in any story on this topic or in your community calendars. Constituents can also view the office hour schedule at www.Graham.House.Gov/Schedule
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed a long-term funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security with broad bipartisan support. Rep. Gwen Graham issued the following statement on the legislation: “I ran for Congress to bring the North Florida way to Washington – and in North Florida, we don’t threaten shutdowns, we work together to get things done. With threats ranging from ISIL terrorists to drug smugglers, it’s unacceptable we came so close to a Department of Homeland Security shut down. Passing a long-term DHS funding bill is a step in the right direction. Moving forward, leaders in both parties must do more to end the political games in Washington that threaten our entire country.”
03.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tonight, the House of Representatives passed HR 280, legislation that allows for the secretary of Veterans Affairs to recoup bonuses and awards paid to VA employees found guilty of misconduct. The bill aims to correct a problem that became apparent, last year, when VA employees fired for manipulating patient wait-list data were able to keep their bonuses. “North Florida veterans deserve the very best care.” Rep. Graham said. “This bill gives the Veterans Affairs secretary another tool to clean up the department and hold accountable employees involved in misconduct that hurts veterans. This legislation will save tax dollars and improve care.” Rep. Graham was one of just two Democrats to co-sponsor the legislation, which was sponsored by Rep. Jeff Miller, who represents the neighboring First Congressional District. ###
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham took to the House Floor, today, to recognize the essential services provided by Rural Hospitals in North Florida. Graham toured Doctors Memorial Hospital in Bonifay, last week, and met with rural hospital administrators from across North Florida. She listened as they expressed concerns with new regulations. In the meeting, Graham promised to be a voice for rural hospitals in Congress. “Visiting Doctors Memorial Hospital, I was inspired by the hard work of rural doctors, nurses, administrators and volunteers” Rep. Graham said. “Democrats and Republicans in Congress need to work together to ensure our rural hospitals have the tools they need to provide the best patient care possible.” Statement from JoAnn Baker, CEO of Doctors Memorial Hospital in Bonifay: “Rep. Graham’s visit and her speech on the House floor show she’s going to be a strong voice for rural hospitals in Congress. Speaking for Doctors Memorial Hospital, we were very encouraged about the future of rural hospitals. I believe that she is genuinely concerned and will be proactive in ensuring that the healthcare needs of the citizens of Holmes and surrounding counties will be met. Our doors will always be open to Congresswoman Graham, and we feel honored to have had her make a site visit to discuss the challenges of a rural hospital.” Click here for video of Rep. Graham’s speech on the House floor. Full text of Rep. Graham’s speech: Mr. Speaker, today I rise to bring attention to rural hospitals and the important service they provide to communities across North Florida. Last week, I toured Doctors Memorial Hospital in Bonifay, Florida. I was inspired by the hard work of the doctors, nurses, administrators and volunteers who treat patients that otherwise would have to drive hours for care. These hospitals are providing outstanding care – but face unique new challenges from government regulation. In Congress, we need to make sure rural hospitals are not overburdened by regulations that can cause more harm than good at smaller facilities. Rural hospitals are vital to North Florida, and I’m ready to work with Democrats and Republicans to make sure we protect them. ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – After pledging to donate her pay if obstructionists in Congress shut down the Department of Homeland Security, Rep. Graham is going further to pressure both parties to work together to fund DHS. With Representatives Ashford, Peters and Bera, Graham is cosponsoring , H.R. 1032, the “No Homeland Security, No Pay Act,” to withhold pay for members of Congress if funding for DHS is allowed to lapse. “In North Florida, you have to do your job to get a paycheck – the same rules should apply to Congress,” Rep. Graham said. “With threats ranging from ISIL to border security, it’s reckless and irresponsible to let the Department of Homeland Security shut down.” The “No Homeland Security, No Pay Act,” would withhold the pay of members of Congress in an escrow account should funding lapse for DHS. The funds would not be available until funding legislation is signed in to law.
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With just four days left until the Department of Homeland Security runs out of funding, Rep. Gwen Graham is following through with a campaign promise to donate her pay if Congress forces a government shutdown. "With threats ranging from ISIL, to cyber security, to safety at our borders, it’s unacceptable for Congress to shut down the Department of Homeland Security,” Rep. Graham said. “There are enough moderate Democrats and Republicans ready to pass a clean Department of Homeland Security funding bill. It’s time for leadership in both parties to set politics aside and fund the Department of Homeland Security.” Rep. Graham has co-sponsored a clean funding bill that would prevent the department from shutting down, but if Congress fails to fund the department, Rep. Graham has pledged to donate her congressional pay to Warrior Beach Retreat, a North Florida nonprofit dedicated to helping combat wounded warriors and their families. At the time of her announcement, it appears Rep. Graham is the first member of Congress to pledge to donate her paycheck, and to call on other members to do the same. “If congress lets obstructionists shut down the Department of Homeland Security, each member should give up their paycheck. There should be an immediate consequence for letting partisan games threaten the security of the American people.” Last week, Rep. Graham visited activity duty military members at the United States Coast Guard Station in Panama City, which is under the Department of Homeland Security. If Congress shuts down the department, members of the Coast Guard would be forced to work without pay, and civilian workers could be furloughed, creating a significant distraction and dealing a blow to morale. There are only four days left until the Department of Homeland Security shuts down on February 28. Among those who would be expected to protect Americans without getting paid would be: More than 40,000 Border Patrol agents and Customs and Border Protection officers; More than 50,000 TSA aviation security screeners; More than 13,000 Immigration and Customs Enforcement law enforcement agents and officers; More than 40,000 active duty Coast Guard military members; More than 4,000 Secret Service law enforcement agents and officers. A shutdown would affect the bulk of DHS’s management and support of the homeland security infrastructure that was built following the 9/11 terrorist attacks: Crippling FEMA’s preparations for future disasters, furloughing 22 percent of FEMA personnel; Shuttering the DHS Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, which would no longer alert and coordinate with local law enforcement agencies, and withholding the Securing the Cities grants that pay for critical nuclear detection capabilities in cities across the country; Halting Research and Development work on countermeasures to devastating biological threats, on nuclear detection equipment, and on cargo and passenger screening technologies; Ending FEMA training activities with local law enforcement for Weapons of Mass Destruction events. ###
02.19.2015	PANAMA CITY, Fla. – Representative Gwen Graham toured Naval Support Activity Panama City (NSA PC) and the United States Coast Guard Station Panama City, on Wednesday. During the visit, Rep. Graham saw firsthand what local active duty members of the military are doing to keep North Florida and our country safe. "We need to make sure every person living in North Florida knows just how important the Naval Support Activity base is to our community – and to our military,” Rep. Graham said. “On the Armed Services Committee, I’m going to be a voice for the men and women serving in North Florida – to make sure they have the resources and support they need to complete their mission.” Among other commands, NSA PC is home to the Explosive Ordnance Disposal Detachment, Naval Surface Warfare Center and the Navy Experimental Diving Unit. Almost every single diver in all branches of the military receives their training at the Panama City Base. This year, to highlight the hard work and achievements of the diving unit, Commander Hung Cao has declared 2015 Year of the Diver. Commander Cao asked Rep. Graham to help kickoff the celebration with a cake cutting ceremony. “I’m especially proud of the dive school and their hard work to train elite members of the military from all branches of our armed services,” Rep. Graham said. “It was truly inspiring to see so many young men and women training to protect our country from harm.” After touring the base, Rep. Graham met with the Bay Defense Alliance to discuss how private industry, local government, and the federal government can work together to support North Florida’s military. The lunch was followed by a press conference with local veterans at Gulf Coast State College, where Rep. Graham announced her first piece of legislation, the VETS Act. ###
02.18.2015	PANAMA CITY, Fla. – Representative Gwen Graham has introduced her first piece of legislation, HR 914, the VETS Act -- Veterans, Education, Training Act -- to train and hire more recovery coordinators to help the most seriously injured and ill post-9/11 veterans. Graham announced the legislation, today, standing with North Florida veterans at Gulf Coast State College in Panama City. Recovery coordinators at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs assist the most seriously injured and ill veterans in their transition from active duty to veteran status. This transition can be especially difficult for injured veterans as they relocate and need to find health care, housing and employment. Veteran Administration recovery coordinators help veterans cut through bureaucratic red tape in all aspects of this transition. “This legislation shows those who have served or are considering serving in the military that we have their backs,” Rep. Graham said. “Expanding the recovery coordinator program will help our most seriously injured veterans cut through the VA’s bureaucratic red tape.” The legislation will improve the veteran recovery program by: Requiring the Veterans Administration to work with an existing nursing school to create a curriculum to train veteran recovery coordinators Authorizing the Veterans Administration to increase the number of veteran recovery coordinators Requiring the secretaries of Defense and Veterans Affairs to better coordinate the recovery program to ensure no returning service members fall through the cracks Under the legislation the department of Veterans Affairs would work with colleges that have existing nursing programs, like Gulf Coast State College, FAMU, FSU, TCC, and Chipola College to create a curriculum specifically designed to train recovery coordinators. The legislation is co-sponsored by Rep. Ken Buck (R-CO) and has been endorsed by the Wounded Warrior Project. Dr. John Holdnak, president of Gulf Coast State College, issued the following statement on the legislation: "Our educational mission is to meet the diverse needs throughout the communities we serve, and as the population of veterans increases every year, we are proud to help facilitate the care and recovery of those who have served their country.”
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham joined a bipartisan coalition in the House of Representatives to extend a package of charitable and small business tax credits, including credits incentivizing donations to food banks, and credits for small businesses deducting certain investments. Last year, Congress retroactively renewed more than 50 tax credits that had expired in 2013, but the breaks were not extended for 2015. Representative Graham joined Democrats and Republicans in extending these credits, and called on both parties to support extending more credits for middle class families. “Allowing these tax credits to expire is no different than raising taxes on small businesses – which I strongly oppose,” Representative Graham said. “Republicans and Democrats in Congress both need to stop playing political games and extend more common sense credits to alleviate the tax burden on middle class families.” Charitable Tax Credits Passed Thursday A provision incentivizing donations to food banks A provision allowing people to make tax-free contributions to charity from their IRAs A provision allowing tax benefits for people who donate conservation easements on their land A provision allowing for a reduced tax rate for private foundation investment income Small Business Tax Credits Passed Friday A provision allowing small businesses to deduct certain investments A provision that reduces the tax burden on small business transitioning from C-Corp to S-Corp status A provision which increases deductions for small business owners who make charitable contributions ###
02.12.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Rep. Gwen Graham’s Congressional Office is holding a Black History Month “My Dream for America” Essay Contest. All middle school students in the 14 counties encompassing the Second Congressional District are invited to participate. The prompt was chosen to celebrate Dr. Martin Luther King’s legacy and encourage study of his famous “I Have a Dream Speech.” "Our nation has come a long way since Dr. King delivered his ‘I Have a Dream’ speech in 1963, but we still have more work to achieve,” Rep. Graham said. “Each generation has a new dream for America. I’m looking forward to hearing how today’s students envision our country to progress toward equality.” Essays can be hand delivered or mailed to Graham’s district offices in Tallahassee or Panama City. Essays must be submitted by Friday, February 27. Each participating student will receive a letter from Rep. Graham, and a winner will be chosen from each school to receive a special certificate. ###
02.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham is applauding the United Stated Department of Agriculture’s decision to award $13.5 million in grants to the University of Florida to fight Huanglongbing (HLB), also known as citrus greening. Funding for the grants was secured by Sen. Bill Nelson in the 2014 Farm Bill. “Florida is known across the world for our oranges and orange juice. We must do everything we can to help Florida’s farmers combat citrus greening,” Rep. Graham said. “These grants will go a long way in fighting the disease, and ensuring our state continues to grow the best oranges.” Since appearing in 2005, citrus greening has weakened Florida’s $10 billion citrus industry, costing as many as 8,000 jobs and $4.5 billion in damage. Rep. Graham is one of just two Florida Representatives serving on the House Agriculture Committee, which oversees USDA grants. “The North Florida Way means standing up for all our state’s farmers,” Graham said. “These grants show why it’s so important to have Florida represented on the Agriculture Committee.” ###
02.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham is joining a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers to modernize and improve tax-free 529 college savings plans. A 529 investment plan is operated by a state or educational institution to help families set aside funds for future college costs. Florida Prepaid’s 529 plan has more than 35,000 active accounts with a market value of more than $375 million. Tax-free 529 plans were created by a bipartisan effort between former Florida Senator Bob Graham and current Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell in 1996. “North Florida is home to more than 100,000 college students. We need to do everything we can to make college more affordable for them,” Rep. Graham said. “This bipartisan bill to protect, modernize and improve tax-free 529 college savings plans is common sense legislation that will help families saving for college in North Florida.” The bill would expand the current savings plans to include computers as qualified expenses, eliminate unnecessary paperwork when funds are distributed and allow families to re-deposit refunds from colleges without having to pay a penalty or tax. “Making college more affordable isn’t just an education issue, it’s an economic priority,” Graham said. “This legislation will help middle class families afford college, and ensures more North Florida Students will have the resources to compete in a global marketplace.” ###
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham issued the following statement on HR 596 To Repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: “As happens all too often in Washington, both parties have gotten it wrong on the healthcare law: Democrats bit off more than they could chew, while Republicans keep proposing and voting to go back to a system where insurance companies called all the shots. Instead of holding another vote on repealing the Affordable Care Act, we should be working together to pass common sense fixes Democrats and Republicans can agree on. “Congress needs to fix flaws in the legislation, while preserving commonsense parts of the law, like preventing insurance companies from denying coverage for preexisting conditions or charging women more than men. I’m proud to be one of five Democrats co-sponsoring both the Save American Workers Act and the Protect Medical Innovation Act, two bills that will help make the Affordable Care Act work better for North Florida. ” ###
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham recognized and honored Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University by reading the following statement into the Record of the United States House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, to celebrate Black History Month, I rise to recognize Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University, one of the oldest and most prestigious historically black colleges in the United States. The Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University, or FAMU as it’s more affectionately known in North Florida, was founded in 1887, with just 15 students and two instructors. Today, the university has grown to enroll nearly 10,000 students, and was named by The U.S. News & World Report as the top public historically black college or university in the nation for 2015. I’m proud to represent FAMU in the Second Congressional District of Florida. Their mission and the public service they provide is a benefit to North Florida, our state and our nation. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.” Click here for video of Rep. Gwen Graham delivering the statement on the floor of the House. ###
01.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham has been assigned to Armed Services and Agriculture subcommittees with strong ties to the Second Congressional District. Graham requested the subcommittees to have a greater impact in Congress for the people of North Florida. “Bringing the North Florida Way to Washington means working on the issues most important to constituents,” Graham said. “Serving on these subcommittees will allow me to have a greater impact in Congress for the military, farmers and families across North Florida.” On Armed Services, Rep. Graham will serve on the Seapower and Projection Forces, Tactical Air and Land Forces and Oversight and Investigation subcommittees The Seapower and Projection Forces subcommittee has oversight of the Navy, giving it authority over Naval Support Activity Panama City. The Tactical Air and Land Forces Subcommittee conducts oversight of ammunition programs, Army and Air Force acquisition programs, all Navy and Marine Corps aviation programs, and National Guard and Army and Air Force National Guard and Reserve, giving it authority over Tyndall Air Force Base. “These committees are responsible for ensuring America’s soldiers, seamen, marines and airmen are fully equipped to carry out their mission and keep our country safe,” Rep. Graham said. “It’s my job in Congress to make sure our service members have the resources they need, whether they’re in North Florida or serving on the front lines.” On Agriculture, Rep. Graham will serve on the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management and Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Research subcommittees. The General Farm Commodities and Risk Management subcommittee has jurisdiction over policies, statutes and markets relating to a number of crops, including cotton and peanuts, which are both crops important to North Florida’s economy. The committee also oversees federal crop insurance. The Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Research subcommittee oversees fruits, vegetables and nuts, including the citrus industry, which is under threat across Florida. The committee also has jurisdiction over research, education, and extension, which is vital for providing resources to Florida A&M, FSU, and UF extension programs. “Farmers and rural communities are the backbone of North Florida,” Graham said. “Serving on these subcommittees will give North Florida’s farmers and agriculture research programs a stronger voice in Congress.” ###
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham honored late Leon County Sheriff Larry Campbell by reading the following statement into the Record of the United States House of Representatives: “Madam Speaker, today I rise to remember and honor Leon County Sheriff Larry Campbell, who after 50 years of public service lost a long-fought battle with cancer on December 24, 2014. Sheriff Campbell first joined the Sheriff’s Office during his senior year at Florida State University, after serving in the Marine Corps. He was elected Sheriff in 1996, a position of trust he would hold until his passing. Sheriff Campbell was respected by law enforcement across our state for his leadership. He was also well known for being an avid supporter of charitable causes, including the United Way and American Heart Association. Sheriff Campbell is survived by his wife, Michelle, his son, Jack, and two daughters, Jeannette and Stephanie. Our community will remember Sheriff Campbell as a dedicated public servant. We owe him and his family a great debt of gratitude.” Click here for video of Rep. Gwen Graham delivering the statement on the floor of the House. ###
01.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham has been appointed to serve on the House Agriculture Committee. Graham requested to serve on the committee to represent the farmers and rural communities in the Second Congressional District. “Farmers and rural communities are the backbone of North Florida. Our economy depends on their hard work. Our families depend on them to provide food,” Graham said. “On the Agriculture Committee, I will be a voice our farmers can depend on to represent their interests.” Graham will join Congressman Ted Yoho, who represents the neighboring Third Congressional District, as the only Florida representatives on the Agriculture Committee. “Florida’s farmers expect us to rise above partisanship and politics,” Graham said. “I look forward to working with Republicans and Democrats to benefit North Florida agriculture.” Florida Farm Bureau President John Hoblick issued the following statement on Graham’s appointment: “I want to congratulate Rep. Gwen Graham upon her appointment to the House Agriculture Committee. Florida’s farm families look forward to working with her on a variety of federal issues that affect their livelihoods. They will be knowledgeable resources for Rep. Graham in both the development of new legislation and the application of existing policies.” ###
01.23.2015	PANAMA CITY, Fla. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham toured Tyndall Air Force Base with 325th Fighter Wing Commander Colonel Derek France and the Commander of the 1st Air Force, Lieutenant General William Etter. Tyndall AFB supports more than 6,000 civilian and military workers, more than 10,000 retirees and dependents and provides North Florida with more than $600 million in annual economic impact. “Today, I saw firsthand how hard the men and women at Tyndall Air Force Base work to keep us safe. From training F-22 fighter pilots to performing weather reconnaissance, the active duty military and reservists stationed in North Florida provide an invaluable service to our region and our country,” Graham said. “Working on the House Armed Services committee, I’m committed to serving them.” Graham serves on the House Armed Services Committee, which is responsible for funding and overseeing the Department of Defense and United States Armed Forces. On today’s tour, Graham listened to Tyndall Commander Col. France about how she can best represent the base’s interests in Congress. After the tour, Col. France commented, “Representative Graham’s request to serve on the Armed Services Committee is evidence she’s thinking about the men and women serving here at Tyndall. She’s going to be an important partner for us to work with in Washington.” ###
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham announced the bipartisan H.Res 45 to reduce government waste and spending. Graham is the lead Democratic co-sponsor on the legislation, which is being introduced by Republican Representative Frank Guinta. The bill will cut waste by targeting duplicative government programs. “There’s no excuse for our government to waste billions of dollars on duplicative programs,” Graham said. “We owe it to the taxpayers of North Florida and across our country to ensure every dollar the government spends is spent wisely. This is common sense legislation that Democrats and Republicans can both support to save money and reduce our deficit.” H.Res 45 requires every piece of legislation awaiting consideration by the House of Representatives and the Senate to receive a “duplication score” by the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service (CRS). This legislation provides Members of Congress with the knowledge necessary to identify whether or not new legislation creates programs, offices or projects that already exist in our government to ensure no new taxpayer dollars are wasted to fund duplicative projects. Congressman Guinta added, “Last year, billions of dollars were wasted funding duplicative government programs, crowding out dollars for worthwhile programs that serve our common goal of helping those in need. This bill is a common-sense first step towards curbing this ‘spend first, pay later’ mentality. Once we begin to eliminate the waste plaguing our government, we can begin to take sizable bites out of our debt and deficit while ensuring the protection of safety net for all Americans.”
01.19.2015	Marianna, Fla. – Today, Representative Gwen Graham celebrated Martin Luther King’s legacy at a prayer breakfast and parade in Marianna. Statement from Rep. Gwen Graham: Martin Luther King, Jr., said “Life’s most persistent and urgent question is, what are you doing for others?” This weekend, I’ve seen so many people in North Florida who are helping others. On Saturday, I worked with firefighters who risk their lives to help others; yesterday, I worshiped with a congregation that dedicates time every week to help others; and across the district, today, people performed community service to celebrate Dr. King’s legacy and help others. We should all honor Dr. King by not limiting our service to this weekend, but to ask every day, “What are we doing for others?” ###
01.19.2015	TALLAHASSEE, Fla. – Continuing her father's tradition of Workdays, Rep. Gwen Graham spent Saturday working alongside Tallahassee firefighters. Graham chose to work with firefighters on Martin Luther King, Jr., weekend to celebrate those whose jobs are dedicated to serving others. "North Florida's firefighters and paramedics don't just help others – they risk their lives to keep us safe," Graham said. "Working alongside them, I listened to the challenges they face every day, and I witnessed how their service helps others in our community.” Graham's Workdays provide a first-hand look at the difficulties faced and successes achieved by people in all different walks of life and situations. They also provide the opportunity to highlight the hard work of North Floridians and to build new relationships. "I didn’t just work alongside our firefighters, I made a dozen new friends," Graham said. "When an issue involving first responders comes up in Congress, I can call the firefighters to ask how it will affect them — and they know, when they need something done in Washington, they can call me." You can read more about Rep. Graham’s workday, here. ###
01.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gwen Graham is calling on House leadership to bring a clean Department of Homeland Security funding bill to the floor without political amendments. Rep. Graham joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers, including Florida Republican Reps. Mario Diaz-Balart (FL-25), Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), in voting against today's legislation after a political amendment to end Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals was added to the bill. “The people of North Florida are tired of political games in Washington," Graham said. "I'm ready to work with Democrats and Republicans to fix our broken immigration system, and there's only one way to do that — with comprehensive immigration reform. This amendment was intentionally designed to poison the well and kill this bill. It represents politics at its worst." Graham campaigned on reforming Congress, and often cited political amendments killing bipartisan bills as an example of Congressional dysfunction. "The government's first and foremost job is to protect the American people. I believe funding national security is too important to jeopardize with partisan politics," Graham said. "Republicans and Democrats came together to write a bipartisan funding bill for Homeland Security. I'm ready to support that bill when it comes to the floor without this political amendment." ###
01.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gwen Graham joined a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers to pass the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act, today. The legislation provides several key reforms to help at-risk veterans: Mandates annual independent third-party evaluations of all mental health care and suicide prevention practices and programs at the VA. Creates a one-stop, interactive website to provide veterans with information on all mental health care services provided by the VA. Addresses the shortfall of mental health professionals at the VA by establishing a pilot program for student loan repayments to attract and retain psychiatrists “Our veterans put their lives on the line for our country. When they come home, they deserve to know their country is here to support them,” Graham said. “This legislation will help keep the Veterans Administration accountable, and ensure returning veterans can receive help when facing depression or post-traumatic stress.” ###
01.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gwen Graham is joining a bipartisan coalition of Florida lawmakers in co-sponsoring authorization of the Central Everglades Planning Project, introduced by Rep. Patrick Murphy. The CEPP is a $2 billion project to increase clean water collection around Lake Okeechobee and send it south into the center of the Everglades. “From North Florida to Miami, our entire state’s ecosystem and water supply is dependent on keeping the Everglades healthy,” Graham said. “This historic project to send clean water south to the Everglades is a major step in restoring Florida’s vulnerable river of grass.” The CEPP was not included in the last Water Bill because the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers had not yet finished a report to approve the project. With approval of the project, this legislation will expedite the restoration. “It’s time to cut through the red tape and get this project moving forward,” Graham said. “This is an issue I’m proud to be working with Democrats and Republicans on for the benefit of our entire state.” Additional co-sponsors include Reps. Corrine Brown (FL-05), Curt Clawson (FL-19), Ander Crenshaw (FL-04), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Lois Frankel (FL-22), Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), Bill Posey (FL-08), Tom Rooney (FL-17), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), and Frederica Wilson (FL-24). ###
01.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Representative Gwen Graham joined a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers today to pass the Keystone XL Pipeline Act. “While drivers across North Florida are enjoying low gas prices today, energy policy must be planned with long-term goals in mind. Keystone XL will play an important role in keeping energy prices low, which benefits our country’s economy and national security,” Graham said. “I’m supporting this pipeline with the expectation it will be built as one of the safest in the world,” Graham said. “Democrats and Republicans came together to pass this legislation, now we must continue to work together to protect our country’s natural resources. North Florida is home to beautiful treasures from the beaches of Panama City to Wakulla Springs, and we need to ensure they’re safe for generations to come.” ###
01.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – The bipartisan Save American Workers Act, co-sponsored by Congresswoman Gwen Graham, passed the House of Representatives 252-172, today. The legislation will replace the 30-hour definition of full-time employment imposed by Obamacare with the traditional 40-hour definition. “I consider it my job in Congress to make sure every person who wants a job can find a job,” Graham said. “Hourly workers shouldn’t have their hours or pay cut because of Obamacare. This is a common sense fix that will help working people in North Florida.” Congresswoman Graham was just one of six Democrats to co-sponsor the legislation, and one of 12 Democrats to vote for the bill. The bill will benefit hourly-employees with increased hours, increased income, and greater opportunities to advance to full-time jobs. “I’m for keeping the good and fixing the bad parts of Obamacare, “ Graham said. “We all agree we need to keep insurance companies from discriminating against people and we need to continue to work on lowering costs, but limiting part-time employees to less than 30 hours is more harmful than helpful for workers in North Florida. This legislation will fix that problem without repealing the good parts of healthcare reform.” ###
01.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – On her first day in Congress, Representative Gwen Graham joined Democrats and Republicans to pass the bipartisan Hire More Heroes Act. The legislation revises the Affordable Care Act to allow for small businesses to hire veterans who receive their healthcare through the VA System without counting them toward the 50-employee coverage cap. “I consider it my job in Congress to make sure every American, especially our veterans, can get a job,” Graham said. “Republicans and Democrats coming together to pass this bill on our first day sends an important message that we’re ready to work and get things done.” The unemployment rate for veterans who have served since 9/11 is higher than the national average. The Hire More Heroes Act will provide greater incentive for North Florida’s small businesses to hire veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. "The Hire More Heroes Act is common sense legislation that helps veterans and small businesses,” Graham said. “It’s also the first of many Obamacare reforms I will vote support.” ###
01.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Gwen Graham was sworn into the 114th Congress, today. She promised to focus on local issues important to her constituents and followed through with her campaign promise to vote for new leadership, voting for Rep. Jim Cooper for Speaker. "It's an honor to represent the people of the second congressional district in Congress," Graham said after being sworn in. "Starting today, I'm working to bring the North Florida Way to Washington — reaching across the aisle and getting things done for the people again." "I'm focused on creating jobs, improving education, and serving our service members and their families," Graham said. "These are all issues Republicans and Democrats can agree on and find common sense solutions for." On voting for a new Speaker, Graham said, "If we're going to have real change in Washington, we need new leadership. I voted for Jim Cooper for Speaker of the House because he represents the kind of moderate leadership we need more of in Washington." In addition to her duties in Washington, Graham opened district offices in Tallahassee and Panama City, today. "Constituent services are a top priority for me," Graham said. "Our district offices doors are open and ready to help the people of North Florida." ###
