10.16.2018	HOUSTON, TX – Congressman Gene Green hosted Houston-area students and parents at his Paying for College Workshop on Monday, October 15th at North Shore High School. During this free event, a representative from The Sallie Mae Fund and Project GRAD Houston spoke to families about how to apply for scholarships, financial aid, and the important factors to consider when selecting the school that fits them. Students were also reminded that this year’s Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) was made available on October 1st, three months earlier than the traditional January 1 date. “I want every student to have the option to attend college, regardless of financial background,” said Rep. Green. “That is why I encourage students to apply for FAFSA early so that more students can access the historic investment in financial aid and better information when they need it. It is my hope that every student who attended this event walked away feeling more confident that the cost of college can be made affordable.” Students and families from North Shore Senior High, North Shore 10th Grade Center, Galena Park High, C.E. King High, Early College High, Channelview High, and Summer Creek High all attended. Representatives from San Jacinto College, Houston Community College, University of Houston, Texas Southern University, and Aviation Institute of Maintenance were available to students who were interested in applying to one of their institutions. Additionally, several universities awarded scholarships onsite to attending high school seniors: Recipient of $1,000 Scholarship from the University of Houston Marlenny Alfaro – North Shore Senior High Iman Davis – North Shore Senior High Kain Sanchez – North Shore Senior High Estefany Bazaldoa – Galena Park CTE ECHS Recipient of $1,000 Scholarship from Texas Southern University Marbella DeLaTorre – North Shore Senior High Odalis Mariner – North Shore Senior High Analise Padilla – North Shore Senior High Natasha Cardona – Early College High Recipient of $250 Scholarship from San Jacinto College Yamile Posas ###
10.09.2018	HOUSTON, TX – Congressman Green (D-TX), a senior Democrat on the Energy & Commerce Committee, released the statement below following the announcement by the Trump administration to give the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approval to begin the process of allowing year-round use of E15, gasoline that is blended with 15 percent ethanol: “I have long opposed adoption of E15, and I oppose this decision by the administration,” said Green. “E15 is not a suitable fuel for all vehicles, including boats, older vehicles, ATV’s, and motorcycles. I’m concerned consumers will pay more over time because of wear and tear on their vehicles and I believe that increased use of ethanol can contribute to more pollution during the summer months.” “Additionally, the amount of cropland that needs to be allocated for corn production for ethanol, the amount of energy required for ethanol production, and the impact on food prices all has serious negative implications. When the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) was created in 2005, which is the policy responsible for ethanol blends with gasoline, the United States relied on imports of foreign fuel. Today, the United States is on track to be a net energy exporter in the next four years. I believe the RFS should be reformed instead of increased to promote E15 fuel blends. I am hopeful to find support in Congress to reduce or completely eliminate the use of corn-based ethanol in the RFS.” ###
10.02.2018	HOUSTON, TX – The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced Monday that Arikayce, the first antibacterial drug approved under the FDA’s Limited Population Pathway for Antibacterial and Antifungal Drugs (LPAD Pathway), would be administered for the treatment of a lung disease affecting a limited population of patients whose bodies do not respond to conventional treatment. The ADAPT Act, which was introduced by Rep. Green and included in the final passage of the 21st Century Cures Act in 2016, established a pathway that would incentivize and accelerate the development of new drugs to treat serious and life-threatening infections in a limited population of patients who lack effective therapeutic options. “Public health experts have raised alarm about the increase of “Superbugs,” or antibiotic-resistant infections, as a growing public health threat for decades,” said Rep. Green, Ranking Members of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health and author of the ADAPT Act. “Now, doctors and patients can find relief knowing that regulatory burdens have been reduced and there’s access to new lifesaving antibiotics. The 21st Century Cures Act was an ambitious bill that heavily invested in medical research and enhanced the FDA’s tools to review and approve new medicine. I’m proud of the work we accomplished and look forward to the additional breakthroughs as more drugs are approved.” More details about the new drug can be read HERE: Text of the ADAPT Act can be read HERE. ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, with bipartisan support to combat the opioid crisis that’s affecting our country. In its final passage, the Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers (CORC) Act was also included, introduced by Reps. Gene Green (D-TX), Brett Guthrie (R-KY), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), and Larry Buschon, M.D. (R-IN). “The bipartisan legislation that passed today is a step forward for millions of Americans who suffer from opioid abuse and need comprehensive treatment at a one-stop shop,” said Green. “Our legislation will require designated centers to provide wraparound services for Americans suffering from opioid addiction, including counseling, recovery housing, and job training. It is our intention to use this new program to identify standards and best practices that can be deployed nationwide.” The Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018, found under Section 7121 of the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, would allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award grants to treatment facilities in order to establish or operate comprehensive centers that provide a full range of treatment services. The language requires evidence-based practices and data reporting to ensure accountability, allowing for treatments such as detoxification, the use of FDA-approved medications for substance abuse disorders, and a number of other services. Under the Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018, Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers would serve to help fill the need for coordinated, comprehensive care by providing: Treatment and Recovery Services Patients would be connected – either on-site, through established referral networks or by leveraging existing integrated delivery networks – to a wide range of evidence-based treatment services as well as recovery support programs including, but not limited to: all FDA-approved medications; detoxification; counseling; residential rehabilitation; recovery housing; community-based and peer recovery support services; and job training and placement assistance. Each center would also have an on-site pharmacy and toxicology services as well as a secure and confidential electronic health information system. Outreach Centers would serve as links to their communities, providing outreach staff to work with state and local health departments, schools, justice professionals, and other community partners to provide information about services provided. Centers would also make available online evidence-based resources to educate both providers and the public about substance use disorders. Data Reporting and Program Oversight Centers would provide valuable information and data about what treatments work for what patients and could inform more broad treatment practices. “Overall, the opioid package that received bipartisan support is a great first step to protect Americans from opioid addiction and to help Americans suffering from opioid abuse,” said Green. However, it falls short of the necessary investment. As the Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health, I’ve worked with my colleagues in the majority from the very beginning to make this bill substantial in every way possible, but going forward, we need to do more to ensure that all Americans in need of treatment have access to the care they need to recover and live a full, productive life.” A section-by-section of H.R. 6 is available HERE. Full text of the CORC Act is available HERE. After negotiations over the last few weeks between the House and Senate, the Senate is expected to pass the package without delay next week and send it to the President of the United States. ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Wednesday, Congressmen Mike Conaway and Gene Green of Texas introduced H. Con. Res. 139, a resolution expressing support for the United States to pursue and enter into a military treaty alliance of extended deterrence with the State of Israel. “Israel is our most important ally in an increasingly unstable region, and America and Israel have a long history of cooperation critical to both nations’ safety and security,” said Congressman Conaway. “Congressional support for Israel has never been stronger, including providing for our mutual defense in the event of an attack from an adversary such as Iran. Now more than ever, we must stand with Israel, and make sure there is no confusion amongst potential adversaries like Iran on our commitment.” “As the Co-Chair of the Democratic Israel Working Group, I believe we must support our friends and greatest ally in the Middle East during a time of instability in the Islamic Republic of Iran,” said Congressman Green. “We must also hold the Iranian regime accountable and double our efforts to bring peace to the region and continue to tangibly support Israel in its request for peace.” ###
09.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – President Donald Trump signed into law the Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 5385) last night. The bill, introduced by Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX) and sponsored by Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Chairman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), will reauthorize the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program for the next five years at $325 million per year – a $25 million increase over the current funding level. The CHGME program provides direct financial support to children’s hospitals to train medical residents and fellows. Hospitals typically receive support for graduate medical education (GME) through Medicare, and those payments are provided to hospitals based on their Medicare patient volume. Because the Medicare program is used primarily by people who are over the age of 65, and children’s hospitals treat primarily people below the age of 18, children’s hospitals have low Medicare patient volume and receive few Medicare GME payments. “A robust pediatric workforce is essential to ensuring that no child lacks access to high-quality medical care,” said Rep. Green. “CHGME recipient hospitals represent less than one percent of all hospitals, yet train half of all the nation’s pediatricians and pediatric specialists. Reauthorizing CHGME represents a commitment to ensuring that children throughout the country have access to the quality care they need. The current authorization will expire at the end of the current fiscal year, so it is urgent that we reauthorize this important program.” Text of the bill can be read HERE. Background on Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Dr. Brooks was the first pediatric surgeon in Texas in 1958. She was raised in Lewisville, Texas, and received her M.D. from the UT Medical Branch in Galveston and performed pediatric surgery at Texas Children’s Hospital and St. Joseph’s Hospital in Houston. In 1973, she joined the newly formed University of Texas Medical School as a tenured full professor and established the Division of Pediatric Surgery, which she headed for the next 10 years. ###
09.18.2018	HOUSTON, TX –Congressman Gene Green held his annual Northside Job Fair Monday morning, which hosted over 40 employers and more than 400 job candidates at the M.O. Campbell Educational Center arena. Many participants made connections with employers and began the interview process, others were offered jobs immediately. “We had a great turn-out of participants, and a very successful job fair,” Green said. “This event offers constituents an opportunity to interact with various companies in a wide variety of professions. We not only want to help people find employment, we want to help them move into higher-paying jobs so that they can get ahead and support their families.” Over 40 companies and organizations participated in the event from both the public and private sector, and a variety of industries. Full-time, part-time and seasonal positions were advertised for an array of skill sets ranging from first-responders to engineers to educators. ### The fair was held in partnership with Workforce Solutions and Aldine Independent School District. For a full list of participating employers, visit Congressman Gene Green’s website.
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Green (D-TX) released this statement following the passage of the bipartisan Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act: “Today the House of Representatives passed a bipartisan compromise bill that will fund Energy and Water, the Legislative Branch, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs for the fiscal year 2019. The legislation includes almost $7 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers, who works hand in hand with the Port of Houston and Harris County Flood Control District to repair damage from previous storms and mitigate future risks. I am also pleased to see that the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund will receive $1.55 billion. Ports are the economic drivers of our country and must be properly maintained, but we must ensure that the taxes ports pay are used for maintenance and not anything else. This injustice needs to be corrected.” ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Ensuring Small Scale LNG Certainty and Access Act (H.R. 4606), a bipartisan bill Representative Gene Green (D-TX) worked on with Representative Bill Johnson (R-OH). Included in the legislation is an amendment Congressman Green introduced that will ensure the Department of Energy (DOE) complies with the environmental regulations and federal agency actions as stated in the National Environment Policy Act (NEPA) guidelines. Emerging markets within the Caribbean, Central America, and South America are looking to U.S. natural gas to help meet their growing energy needs, and this legislation will help ensure domestic producers and exporters are able to meet that demand, along with providing new job opportunities throughout our country. The dominant fuel source in the region for these countries is Venezuelan fuel oil, a source that is not only geopolitically friendly for countries in need of a reliable energy source but one of the worst sources for power generation when it comes to carbon emissions. “I’m proud to work on this bipartisan bill with Representative Johnson, said Green. “Our bipartisan legislation will boost job creation, strengthen diplomatic relationships, and help Puerto Rico rebuild after Hurricane Maria devastated the entire island and its energy grid.” Despite being the world leader in the production of natural gas, many companies are unable to export small quantities of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) to neighboring countries in the Caribbean. If the U.S. does not have a free trade agreement with another nation, natural gas exports must go through a lengthy national interest determination at the Department of Energy (DOE). Currently, the U.S. only has a free trade agreement with the Dominican Republic in the region. “Natural Gas production has dramatically increased all across the country thanks to the energy revolution that we have seen in the last ten years. The U.S. has enough natural gas to meet their energy needs for over a century and soon we will also be a net exporter of these petroleum products. It’s wise to consume what we can and sell the rest to our allies.” ###
08.01.2018	HOUSTON, TX – Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health, today issued a statement on the Trump administration’s final rule to expand the so-called “short-term, limited duration” insurance plans, which would allow insurance companies to sell health coverage plans that do not comply with the current law nor protect people with pre-existing conditions: “The Affordable Care Act (ACA) for the first time protected people with pre-existing conditions. Now, the administration wants to roll back the clock by giving insurers the green-light to sell junk plans that will exempt maternity care, mental health care, and prescription drugs from being covered. Repeal of the ACA didn’t happen, but the Republicans’ sabotage of our nation’s health care system continues. These junk plans will syphon off young, healthy people – damaging the ACA marketplaces and leaving everyone else with higher premiums. It is time for the Trump administration to work with Congress to ensure all Americans have access to affordable, comprehensive health coverage.” ###
07.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – As American natural gas production increases and demand for our energy spikes around the world, the process at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to review the applications for construction of energy export terminals has been stymied by a shortage of highly specialized engineers. Salary is a critical component in deciding where to work, and it has become clear that at this time engineers can work in the private sector for significantly higher pay than FERC can offer. The disparity has made it harder attract the expertise and talent needed to review needed infrastructure projects. That’s why Reps. Pete Olson and Gene Green have introduced H.R. 6552, to give FERC the flexibility to consult with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and determine appropriate salaries to hire the staff they clearly need. “Not only is this step important in getting infrastructure built in this country, but it has precedent. The Securities and Exchange Commission was given similar authority by Congress to bridge the wage gap in the financial sector,” said Rep. Pete Olson. “It makes sense in highly specialized energy jobs to do the same. Our energy can’t be properly utilized sitting in storage instead of being shipped to markets that need it. We must address this fundamental backlog in a smart way. Giving FERC needed pay flexibility in specific jobs will reduce that backlog and address a critical need. I thank my colleague Gene Green for working on this issue with me and look forward to moving it quickly through committee and to the House floor.” “The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has a vital job for both ensuring environmental safety and advancing America’s energy dominance as we continue to see new expansion from the shale boom,” said Rep. Gene Green. They need qualified engineers and lawyers to do this job effectively but often can’t recruit talented individuals into these roles due to the severe limits of the government pay scale when compared to the private sector. Just as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has been granted authority by Congress to address the wage gap at the SEC, our bill will do the same FERC ensuring that talented regulators will be available to review much needed infrastructure development” “The task of reviewing applications for vital infrastructure such as liquefied natural gas export terminals is among the Commission’s top responsibilities,” said FERC Commissioner Neil Chatterjee. “While the talented staff at the Commission has been working diligently to evaluate these applications, more needs to be done to ensure our process moves forward in an efficient manner. All stakeholders, from project developers to local communities, appreciate a process that is timely and predictable. “In addition to other creative solutions, I believe we need to bolster the Commission’s ability to better recruit and compensate the skilled staff needed to review these applications. I want to thank Reps. Pete Olson and Gene Green for their attention to this important issue and for their bipartisan efforts to help the Commission tackle the review of key energy infrastructure.” Under H.R. 6552, the Commission would have to consult with OPM to determine appropriate salaries. They would only be able to offer higher salaries for positions/roles where they can confirm a critical need, and would have to review that decision every five years. They would also have to report on hiring and staffing as the process moves forward. ###
07.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 5385). The bill, which is sponsored by Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX) and Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Chairman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), will reauthorize the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program for the next five years at $325 million – a $25 million increase. The Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program provides direct financial support to children’s hospitals to train medical residents and fellows. Hospitals typically receive support for graduate medical education (GME) through Medicare, and those payments are provided to hospitals based on their Medicare patient volume. Because the Medicare program is used primarily by people who are over the age of 65, and children’s hospitals treat primarily people below the age of 18, children’s hospitals have low Medicare patient volume and receive few Medicare GME payments. “A robust pediatric workforce is essential to ensuring that no child lacks access to high-quality medical care,” said Rep. Green. “The CHGME recipient hospitals represent less than one percent of all hospitals, yet train half of all the nation’s pediatricians and pediatric specialists. Reauthorizing CHGME represents a commitment to ensuring that children throughout the country have access to the quality care they need. The current authorization will expire at the end of the current fiscal year, so it is important that we reauthorize this important program.” “Our children deserve the best care available to them, and ensuring we have an adequately-prepared pediatric workforce is the first step in providing quality health care,” said Dr. Burgess. “The bipartisan Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018 will ensure that children in Texas and around the country continue to have access to these specialized physicians. It is an honor to sponsor this vital legislation named for Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks – an iconic North Texan pediatric surgeon who broke barriers each day with her work to help children, train future physicians, and provide innovative care.” Similar legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA). Text of the bill can be read HERE. Background on Dr. Benjy Frances Brooks Dr. Brooks who was the first pediatric surgeon in Texas in 1958. She was raised in Lewisville, Texas, and received her M.D. from the UT Medical Branch in Galveston and performed pediatric surgery at Texas Children’s Hospital and St. Joseph’s Hospital in Houston. In 1973, she joined the newly formed University of Texas Medical School as a tenured full professor and established the Division of Pediatric Surgery, which she headed for the next 10 years. ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement after President Trump held a joint press conference with President Putin: “President Trump’s conduct at his meeting with President Putin marks a humiliating day for America and an easy win for Putin. When tweets by the President of the United States blaming the US is for our poor bilateral relationship, rather than the Russian invasion of Ukraine or their unprecedented interference in our elections, are “liked” on Twitter by the Russian Foreign Ministry, it is all too clear that his weakness has not gone unnoticed by our adversaries. Failing to call out Russia on a national stage for its interference in the 2016 elections and placing America as a moral equivalent to Russia legitimatizes Putin as a global leader when, in fact, he’s not our friend." ###
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Energy and Commerce Committee passed bipartisan legislation that will reauthorize the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program for the next five years at $325 million – a $25 million increase. The bill is sponsored by Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX) and Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Chairman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-TX). The Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program provides direct financial support to children’s hospitals to train medical residents and fellows. The program is administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and is authorized in Section 340E of the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) Hospitals typically receive support for graduate medical education (GME) through Medicare, and those payments are provided to hospitals based on their Medicare patient volume. Because the Medicare program is used primarily by people who are over the age of 65, and children’s hospitals treat primarily people below the age of 18, children’s hospitals have low Medicare patient volume and receive few Medicare GME payments. “A robust pediatric workforce is essential to ensuring that no child lacks access to high-quality medical care,” said Rep. Green. “The CHGME recipient hospitals represent less than one percent of all hospitals, yet train half of all the nation’s pediatricians and pediatric specialists. Reauthorizing CHGME represents a commitment to ensuring that children throughout the country have access to the quality care they need.” Similar legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA). The Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act (H.R. 5385) has been cosponsored by 70 Representatives as of today. Text of the bill can be read HERE. ###
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, in a 5-4 ruling the United States Supreme Court upheld the Trump administration’s decision to ban citizens from seven countries, five of which are majority-Muslim, from emigrating to the United States to work, study, or vacation. Since 9/11, no fatal terrorist attack has been attributed to citizens of the targeted countries. “Since before even taking office, Mr. Trump has made it abundantly clear that this ban, while ostensibly based on national origin, is nothing more than a proxy for a ban on Muslims,” said Green. “This is contrary to core American values and reverses the progress that our country has made since Korematsu v. United States and since President Roosevelt’s shameful rejection of Jewish refugees fleeing Nazi violence during the 1940s. Some of our country’s greatest innovators, entrepreneurs, and community leaders are Muslim, and we must continue to fight the Trump administration’s assault on our most cherished values. We should not repeat history and turn innocent people away that are fleeing violence, terrorism, and genocide in their home countries.” ###
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on his support of H.R. 6, SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, a bipartisan package of opioid-related provisions that passed 396-14: “Congress needs to act urgently to save the tens of thousands of Americans who are dying from the opioid epidemic. I appreciate the efforts of Members on both sides of the aisle to address this crisis and expand access to treatment for Americans suffering from substance abuse. As the Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee, I’ve debated every opioid-related bill that has gone through our committee, and quite frankly, I am concerned that we put quantity over quality.” “Although some of the bills will help people avoid addictions to opioid medications and those already struggling to receive treatment, there is not a sustained, long-term investment that’s needed to fight back. This epidemic took at least 42,000 lives in 2016. People need greater access to care, and there are existing barriers that could prevent Americans from receiving the treatment needed to overcome addictions. The Department of Justice already announced it will not defend the Affordable Care Act’s pre-existing protections in the courts, which could lock out millions of Americans suffering from substance abuse from receiving the treatment they need to overcome their addiction and live a full, healthy life.” “I remain committed to making high quality, affordable health care available for Americans, especially those struggling with opioid abuse. Congress must do better. I hope the majority will seriously consider authorizing more funds and incentivize the remaining 17 states, like my home state of Texas, to expand Medicaid in future legislation.” ###
06.18.2018	HOUSTON, TX – Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement on the Trump administration’s family separation policy: “The inhumane practice of separating families at the border to deter families from immigrating to the United States must end,” said Green. “It is tragic to see the number of children who are forced to deal with anxiety and anguish after they are separated from their families and put into shelters where they do not know anyone and do not understand what is going on.” “The arguments made by the Trump administration to defend this disgusting decision do not stand on any legal ground nor does it make sense. The separation of children from their families could end immediately with a decision by the Trump Administration. The faith community, immigrant organizations, Democrats and many Republicans have called on the President to immediately stop this practice. Family separation goes against everything our country stands for and is not how we welcome immigrants who risked everything to seek a better life.” ###
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed the bipartisan Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act (H.R. 5327), a bill introduced by Reps. Gene Green (D-TX), Brett Guthrie (R-KY), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), and Larry Buschon, M.D. (R-IN). “The bipartisan legislation that passed today is a step forward for millions of Americans who suffer from opioid abuse and need comprehensive treatment at a one-stop shop,” said Green. “Our legislation will require designated centers to provide wraparound services for Americans suffering from opioid addiction, including counseling, recovery housing, and job training. It is our intention to use this new program to identify standards and best practices that can be deployed nationwide.” The Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018 would allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award grants to treatment facilities in order to establish or operate comprehensive centers that provide a full range of treatment services. The bill requires evidence-based practices and data reporting to ensure accountability, allowing for treatments such as detoxification, the use of FDA-approved medications for substance abuse disorders, and a number of other services. Full text of the bill can be read HERE. ###
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health and co-author of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Department of Justice’s announcement that it will to no longer defend the ACA in court: “The latest news of sabotage to the Affordable Care Act comes at a time when states throughout the country are proposing double-digit rate hikes for ACA plans in 2019, as a result of the Trump administration repealing the individual mandate and halting cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments to insurers, which help families afford high deductibles and out-of-pocket health care costs. The administration’s decision to not defend the ACA is devastating. What this means is millions of families and individuals with pre-existing conditions and mental health and substance abuse disorders could possibly lose their health insurance. The actions taken by the administration is bad policy and will do more harm to Texas, which has already the highest population of uninsured people in the nation. As a co-author of the ACA, I will continue to fight against every act of sabotage and stand up for everyone’s right to have access to quality health care. ” ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green announced new grant awards from the Department of Health and Human Services for three Community Health Centers in the 29th Congressional District of Texas: Houston Community Health Centers Inc., Pasadena Health Center and El Centro de Corazón. This Health Center Cluster grant was separately awarded to each center, for a combined $3.54 million to continue providing access to comprehensive, quality health care. Green has been presented the Distinguished Community Health Champion Award annually by the National Association of Community Health Centers for his work to increase access to primary care in the district. “Community health centers are a crucial part of our health care safety net and help provide families access to reliable, affordable health care,” said Green. “This is especially important in the 29th District where we have an underserved community. I am pleased to announce that additional funding has been awarded to these health centers, which provide care to hundreds of patients in our community every week.” Since the Health Centers Program began, more than 1,300 federally qualified health centers operate approximately 10,000 sites in all 50 states and U.S. territories. Health centers represent the nation’s largest primary care system, serving as the medical home for 27 million patients each year, with the mission of providing timely, comprehensive care. Houston Community Health Centers Inc. provides primary care, pediatric, prenatal, mental health and dental services in the Houston area in both English and Spanish. Pasadena Health Center provides similar services, specializing in OB/ GYN, pediatric care, counseling services, and attention to senior citizens for the underserved patients of the Pasadena community. El Centro de Corazón provides pediatric and adult primary care, women’s health services, pediatric and adult dental care, and behavioral health services. ###
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health, and Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health Chairman Michael Burgess (R-TX), M.D held a hearing on the reauthorization of the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education Program. The bipartisan legislation, Children’s Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2018, introduced in March by Reps. Green and Burgess would reauthorize the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program for five years at $330 million for the fiscal year 2019. The CHGME provides needed funding for training the pediatric workforce, including pediatricians and pediatric subspecialists, such as neonatologists, pediatric psychiatrists, and adolescent health specialists, as well as other physician types in non-pediatrics-focused specialists that may rotate through children’s hospitals for a period of time during their residency. “The CHGME Payment Program fills a vital gap in healthcare by providing the funding needed to train pediatricians and pediatric specialists in many hospitals throughout the nation,” said Green in his opening statement. “The physicians trained through the program go on to provide needed pediatric care throughout the nation including to children living in underserved and rural communities.” Hospitals typically receive support for graduate medical education (GME) through Medicare, and those payments are provided to hospitals based on their Medicare patient volume. Because the Medicare program is used primarily by people who are over the age of 65, and children’s hospitals treat primarily people below the age of 18, children’s hospitals have low Medicare patient volume and receive few Medicare GME payments. The CHGME is needed now more than ever to help train the pediatric workforce that will be required to meet the needs of the growing pediatric demographic,” said Green. ###
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed S.204, a bill aimed to weaken the Federal Drug Administration’s (FDA) role in overseeing drugs for terminally ill patients: “The so-called “Right-to-Try” legislation that the House voted on today offers false hope for patients and families. This bill establishes a dangerous and unnecessary pathway for unproven drugs, void of any FDA review or oversight, and threatens our nation’s drug approval system.” “There is already a process for giving terminally ill patients access to experimental drugs, known as “compassionate use.” The current system works – 99% of requests are approved by the FDA. Today’s so-called “Right-to-Try” bill endangers our current system with a dangerous pathway for unproven drugs without any FDA review or oversight.” “My daughter, an infectious disease expert at the University of Nebraska, used FDA’s Compassionate Use pathway to provide an experimental therapy for an American missionary who had contracted Ebola while in Africa in 2014. FDA approved the request for the experimental treatment over the telephone in less than 24 hours." “The new pathway created in S. 204 is not necessary and, in fact, may well endanger the health and safety of seriously ill patients by bypassing FDA’s oversight and expertise.” ###
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House Energy & Commerce Committee held a second full committee markup and passed more than 30 opioid-related bills. During the markup, Congressman Green introduced an amendment to two separate bills, which were both included in the final passage of the SCREEN Act (H.R. 5228) and Health HOME Act (H.R. 5810). The first amendment was added to H.R. 5228, sponsored by Rep. Frank Pallone (D-NJ). The bill would clarify the Federal Drug Administration’s (FDA) authority to consider a drug’s potential for misuse and abuse as part of the approval process. During a March legislative hearing, FDA Director Scott Gottlieb testified that the issue of opioid misuse and abuse is one of the Agency’s highest priorities. “Last year, the FDA acted when it requested to withdrawal an opioid treatment due to the concern that the benefits associated with the product were outweighed by the risks of abuse and manipulation,” said Green. “Clarifying the FDA’s authority to take potential risks for abuse and misuse into consideration is an important step to combat the opioid crisis.” The second amendment was added to H.R. 5801, sponsored by Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA). The bill would require state Medicaid plans to provide coverage for all medication-assisted treatment (MAT). During multiple hearings on the opioid crisis, Members on the Energy & Commerce Committee heard from public health agencies and treatment professionals about the importance of medication-assisted treatment. “This amendment would ensure that Americans struggling with opioid abuse, or another substance use disorder, would have access to the most appropriate MAT for their recovery under Medicaid,” said Green. Today’s markup is the second in which the Energy & Commerce Committee passed legislation to combat the opioid crisis. ###
05.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the Comprehensive TB Elimination Act of 2018, was introduced by Representatives Gene Green (D-TX), Don Young (R-AK), Eliot Engel (D-NY), and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL). While recent data shows that 95 percent of cases and deaths are in developing countries, tuberculosis (TB) cases continue to occur in the United States with more than 9,000 patients diagnosed annually. The Comprehensive TB Elimination Act of 2018 would update and ensure the tools necessary for public health officials to eliminate TB in the United States by providing support to domestic programs that combat tuberculosis, which include: Reauthorization of the National Strategy for Combating and Eliminating Tuberculosis Funding for the CDC’s Division of Tuberculosis Elimination in their domestic TB control efforts Award grants to state and local governments and Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHC) for coordinating programs and services that prevent, diagnose, and treat TB Encourage interagency coordination in identifying new tools and therapeutics for TB control Require the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study the coordination of efforts to prevent, control, and eliminate TB “I’m proud to introduce this legislation, which reauthorizes the Comprehensive Tuberculosis Elimination Act of 2008,” said Rep. Green, original sponsor of the bill and Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health. “We must continue to remain committed to providing the resources necessary to develop new tools, better diagnose TB infections and accurately identify resistant strains of drug-resistant TB.” “In Alaska, tuberculosis is still a prominent issue which is why I’m proud to be a cosponsor of this legislation, said Rep. Young. “In 2016, we had nearly three times the national average cases of TB reported in Alaska. Eliminating TB, and the many stigmas surrounding this infectious disease, is important for the well-being of our most vulnerable communities. This bill will help to equip our public health officials with the necessary resources to effectively manage and decrease the spread of TB.” “TB is a disease we know how to prevent, treat and cure – and yet, it remains the number one infectious killer worldwide,” said Rep. Engel. “Sadly, TB often takes the greatest toll on the most vulnerable among us, including young children. We must do more to defeat this killer once and for all, and I am proud to help lead this effort.” “Tuberculosis should be a disease of the past but, unfortunately, over 9,000 cases are diagnosed in the United States each year,” said Rep. Ros-Lehtinen. “Tuberculosis is a potentially deadly illness that we must continue to fight by innovating improved vaccines and treatments that respond to evolving strains. I’m proud to join with my colleague, Gene, in order to help eradicate the incidences of this disease in our nation.” A copy of the bill is available HERE. ###
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen John Culberson (TX-07) and Gene Green (TX-29) introduced the Tools on Our Local Streets (TOOLS) to Rehabilitate Communities Act to target Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) funds to nonprofit organizations for the revitalization of neighborhoods, housing rehabilitation, and natural disaster recovery. Yesterday, U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), along with Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), introduced the Senate companion of the TOOLS to Rehabilitate Communities Act. “My top priority is ensuring that every Houstonian has the resources and support they need to recover and rebuild from Hurricane Harvey,” said Rep. Culberson. “This bill expands the way in which every community can use CDBG funds, and creates new partnership opportunities to support our neighbors as they rebuild their homes and lives after last year’s storm. Houston is a critical domestic and international economic engine, and I have been working tirelessly to provide funding and common-sense solutions so that our city will emerge from Harvey stronger than before.” “The spirit of Houston Strong has not faded and nor will it as Texans continue to work together to rebuild our communities following Hurricane Harvey,” said Rep. Green. “The bill we introduced today is a commonsense idea that will give local nonprofits the ability to increase their efforts and help revitalize the communities that are damaged by natural disasters. Countless numbers of people and businesses have spent time and resources on serving their neighbors. It’s our job in Congress to ensure that they can continue to do so.” “This bill would provide additional flexibility for localities by allowing them to partner up with nonprofit organizations, especially helping recovery efforts when a disaster happens,” said Sen. Cornyn. “By bringing nonprofit resources and expertise to the table, these grants can be more effective in making America’s neighborhoods better places to live and work.” Background: Strengthens Community Development Public-Private Partnerships with Nonprofit Organizations. The Tools on Our Local Streets (TOOLS) to Rehabilitate Communities Act makes nonprofit organizations (that provide tools, equipment, or other resources used to complete community development or rehabilitation projects) eligible for funding through Community Development Block Grants (CDBG). CDBGs provide federal assistance to state and local governments in support of local neighborhood revitalization, housing rehabilitation, and community and economic development. CDBGs are also used to help localities recover from presidentially-declared disasters. Increases Awareness of New Opportunity. This legislation requires the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to notify current CDBG grant applicants and awardees of the new opportunity. Requires HUD to Identify Improvements for Community Development Partnerships with Nonprofits. This bill requires the HUD Secretary to report on current opportunities for partnerships to complete community development, revitalization, or rehabilitation projects and existing challenges.
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), released the following statement after voting to support the bipartisan Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2017, which passed 340-72: “Congress, back in 1982, passed the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, directing U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to open a permanent repository for our nation’s spent nuclear fuel,” said Green. “Over three decades later, America is still without a repository, leaving tens of thousands of nuclear waste vulnerable to acts of terror or other catastrophes. The reasons behind this failure are well known and it is imperative that this Congress and the present administration act to open a safe, permanent storage facility. Until that day, we must find interim storage to ensure that 70,000 tons of spent fuel sitting at our nation’s nuclear plants are safe from harm’s way at an interim storage facility, such as the one proposed by WCS in Andrews, TX.” ###
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House Energy & Commerce Committee held a full committee markup and passed more than 30 bills, including the bipartisan Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act, which was introduced by Reps. Gene Green (D-TX), Brett Guthrie (R-KY), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), and Larry Buschon, M.D. (R-IN). “The bipartisan legislation that passed today is a step forward for millions of Americans who suffer from opioid abuse and need comprehensive treatment at a one-stop shop,” said Green. “Our legislation will require designated centers to provide wraparound services for Americans suffering from opioid addiction, including counseling, recovery housing, and job training. It is our intention to use this new program to identify standards and best practices that can be deployed nationwide.” The Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018 would allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award grants to treatment facilities in order to establish or operate comprehensive centers that provide a full range of treatment services. The bill requires evidence-based practices and data reporting to ensure accountability, allowing for treatments such as detoxification, the use of FDA-approved medications for substance abuse disorders, and a number of other services. Other bills that were introduced or originally cosponsored by Congressman Green and passed the committee include: The Ensuring Small Scale LNG Certainty and Access Act (H.R. 4606), which will allow small-scale liquid natural gas applications for exports to be granted without modification or delay. Congressman Green worked with the bill’s original author, Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH), to include language that will ensure the Department of Energy must comply with the evaluation of potential direct and indirect environmental impacts. Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act of 2018 (H.R. 5333), which will enhance FDA’s ability to respond swiftly and effectively to safety concerns, review OTC ingredient applications in a timely manner, and encourage sponsors to submit OTC innovations. The Animal Drug and Animal Generic Drug User Fee Amendments of 2018 (H.R. 5554), which will reauthorize animal drug and generic drug programs. All pieces of legislation will now go to the House of Representatives for a final vote. ###
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, spoke on the House floor to call attention to the Trump administration’s new rule that will allow skimpy, short-term health insurance plans to be sold. His statement is below: “Mr. Speaker, I rise to call attention to the rule that the Trump Administration is expected to release shortly, which will allow skimpy short-term health insurance plans to be sold. During the 115th Congress, the Republican majority has taken every action possible to undermine and sabotage the Affordable Care Act. I expect these new regulations will be no different. No matter how the Trump Administration and our Majority try to sell short-term health insurance plans to the American people, the devil is in the details. These junk plans, as I call them, are just that. Junk. According to a Kaiser Family Foundation report, these plans are likely to exclude coverage for pre-existing conditions and not cover essential services such as maternity care, mental health and substance abuse treatment, and prescription drugs. The people need to know what’s covered – and what is not covered – if they’re sick. AARP, the American Heart Association, the American Medical Association, and many more health and patient advocacy organizations have urged the President to withdraw this proposed rule. I ask my colleagues to join me and urge President Trump to withdraw this harmful rule. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield back.” ###
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the City of Houston’s Fifth Ward was awarded $300,000 from the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Brownfields Community Environmental Assessment Grants. The Brownfields Program, an important program created by Congress and the U.S. Environmental Protect Agency in 2002, assists communities with the cleanup of brownfields sites and encourages economic redevelopment. “Houston and Harris County, Texas have a number of former industrial sites that have become brownfields programs or have potential to be. Grants through the Brownfields Program have been instrumental in transforming some of these underutilized and abandoned sites into productive properties in our community. Minute Maid Park, home of the World Series Champion Houston Astros, is one of the country’s best-known brownfields success stories. There are many benefits to investing in smaller and disadvantaged communities through the brownfields programs, jobs are created and communities are revitalized.” To date, the Brownfields Program has leveraged nearly $24 billion and created over 124,000 jobs across the United States. ###
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), Ranking Member on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, and several Democrats of the congressional Texas delegation sent a letter to Texas Gov. Greg Abbott addressing the high uninsured health care rate in Texas and calling on Gov. Abbott to take action at the state level to increase coverage and improve the affordability of care for Texas families. Six potential options Congressman Green suggested in the letter to ensure stability and lower costs include: Protect state residents by limiting the sale of sub-par junk insurance plans. Boost coverage (and lower costs) by increasing outreach, enrollment and marketing. Strengthen state oversight of the individual market to improve plan participation and lower costs. Protect consumers by ensuring their health plan provides essential health benefits, like hospital care or prescription drugs. Use existing Affordable Care Act (ACA) authority to craft a reinsurance program to reduce health insurance premiums. Expand Medicaid in the State of Texas. The letter from Congressman Green reads, in part, “Together we can help more Texans keep their insurance and limit the burden on taxpayers. Texas is among 18 states that have yet to expand Medicaid to a greater number of its residents. I encourage you to work with the Texas legislature to expand Medicaid to those Texans who most need it, but oftentimes can least afford it.” Full text of the letter is available below: April 25, 2018 The Honorable Greg Abbott Governor State of Texas P.O. Box 12428 Austin, Texas 78711-2428 Dear Governor Abbott, In the past few years, Texas has made great strides in decreasing the number of uninsured individuals in the state, but we can do better. Despite the gains made in recent years, Texas still has the highest number of uninsured individuals in the nation. Since passage of the Affordable Care Act, over 1.7 million Texans have obtained healthcare coverage, yet those gains made have declined with only 1.1 million Texans enrolling in 2018, and even more Texans are at risk of losing coverage for various reasons. The current administration is working to advance policies that depress enrollment in the individual health insurance market, and raise premiums and out of pocket costs for middle class families. In addition, the current administration cut funding for Marketplace advertising by 90 percent, slashed in-person assistance through the navigator program and increased premiums for middle class families by unilaterally refusing to pay cost sharing reductions. These actions have had devastating consequences for hardworking families. According to the latest data from Gallup, 3.2 million fewer Americans had health insurance coverage during the first year of the Trump Administration, relative to 2016. The repeal of the individual mandate beginning in 2019 and proposed regulations on short-term limited-duration (STLD) plans and association health plans will further destabilize the individual market and raise costs for American families. According to a recent analysis conducted by the Urban Institute, the elimination of the individual mandate, coupled with the Administration’s efforts to repeal and replace the ACA, will increase 2019 premiums by 18.2 percent on average (in states that do not prohibit or limit short term plans), and will result in 6.4 million more people uninsured in 2019. The analysis estimates that the state of Texas will see an estimated 4.4 percent increase in the number of uninsured. In addition, premiums in ACA compliant plans in Texas would increase by 20.2 percent due to the expansion of STLD plans and the elimination of the individual mandate. Together we can help more Texans keep their insurance and limit the burden on taxpayers. Texas is among 18 states that have yet to expand Medicaid to a greater number of its residents. I encourage you to work with the Texas legislature to expand Medicaid to those Texans who most need it, but oftentimes can least afford it. There are a number of other actions at the state level that would help increase coverage and improve the affordability of care for families in our state. I urge you to work to implement some or all of these options to help ensure stability and lower costs for our residents. Six potential options are listed below: Protect state residents by limiting the sale of sub-par junk insurance plans. The current administration has weakened consumer protections by allowing plans to be sold that do not meet basic benefit or financial protection standards. These plans would return patients to the days where only upon illness did they discover their plans imposed unreasonable limits on coverage and excluded needed benefits. In the past, consumers faced more than $100 million in unpaid claims when companies purporting to sell insurance became insolvent. In addition, expanding access to such insurance plans negatively affects the risk pool in the ACA-compliant market, thereby increasing premiums for middle-class families. While federal regulations have loosened, strong state protections can prevent such plans from appearing in the state market to scam unknowing customers. For example, states could blunt the destabilizing effect of a proposed regulation on short-term limited duration plans by requiring that these plans comply with key consumer protections, or by limiting the duration of these plans and preventing renewals. Governors and Insurance Commissioners can act pre-emptively to keep bad actors out of the insurance market. Boost coverage (and lower costs) by increasing outreach, enrollment and marketing. States can increase efforts to connect consumers to coverage and increase awareness of the insurance marketplaces. While the current Administration dramatically cuts the budget for marketing and outreach, and has refused to use funds designated for these purposes, states can and should boost on the ground efforts, including marketing targeted at hard to reach groups. Awareness of the marketplaces and available financial assistance remain very low, and younger and healthier consumers are more likely to remain uninsured without significant advertising campaigns. Investments in outreach, enrollment and marketing help ensure a diverse risk pool, bringing premiums down for consumers. For instance, Covered California estimates that its extensive investment in marketing and outreach has translated into 6-8 percent lower premiums. States interested in conducting outreach could ask that federal funds currently not being used for their intended purposes be sent directly to the states for their own outreach and marketing efforts. Strengthen state oversight of the individual market to improve plan participation and lower costs. State regulators in all states can work with plans to ensure that every rating area has a plan available and increase competition to reduce costs and increase choice. Demonstrating this commitment and increasing communication with issuers at the state level has the potential to reverse the current Administration’s ongoing efforts to limit the individual market. Protect consumers by ensuring their health plan provides essential health benefits, like hospital care or prescription drugs. While current legislative attempts to weaken critical health benefits like maternity care and prescription drugs have not succeeded to date, the current Administration is considering steps that would allow plans to charge more for certain life-saving benefits or allow plans to exclude certain needed items from coverage altogether. States and localities have the opportunity to demonstrate the importance of these essential health benefits and ensure equal access to needed care by passing their own requirements to protect residents and bolster the intent of current law and regulations. Use existing Affordable Care Act (ACA) authority to craft a reinsurance program to reduce health insurance premiums. A number of states have sought State Innovation waivers under Section 1332 of the ACA to create reinsurance funds to stabilize the individual market. These funds protect consumers from dramatic premium increases by paying claims above a certain limit or paying for claims for certain specific high-cost conditions. Removing these claims or conditions through reinsurance allows plans to reduce premiums for other consumers. Expand Medicaid in the State of Texas Since the passage of the ACA in 2010, more states are deciding to expand Medicaid coverage for its constituents. Texas is one of 18 states that have yet to expand Medicaid. Yet, among the 18 states, Missouri, Nebraska, Idaho, and Utah are working toward putting Medicaid expansion on the November ballot, and states such as Virginia and Utah are moving Medicaid bills forward according to the University of Montana’s Bureau of Business and Economic Research. A replacement for the ACA that would increase coverage and lower costs for American families does not yet exist, but we in Texas can work together on behalf of Texans. One step we can take now is to expand Medicaid to those Texans who need it and are eligible for coverage. For the sake of our constituents, I ask that you take action to mitigate the impact of their harmful actions and inability to solve the problems that exist in our insurance markets today. Texas can develop a program for Texans that increase health care for Texans. I stand ready to work with you and your administration to help make these options a reality. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Gene Green Member of Congress ###
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) announced the winner of the 2018 Congressional District Art Competition for high school students at an exhibition on Monday, April 23, 2018, at Houston Community College –Southeast Campus. The winners of the competition include: First Place – Melissa Sosa, Sam Rayburn High School Second Place – Emilio Recio, Sam Rayburn High School Third Place –Brenda Castillo, Pasadena High School “What I enjoy most about the art competition is seeing the artwork of all of the talented students across the district,” said Green. “I’m glad we have this opportunity to recognize and encourage their artistic abilities. Congratulations to all the students who participated and entered their work. What they did is not easy and they deserve to be recognized.” Sosa and her parents will travel to Washington, DC in June to attend the national ceremony that recognizes the first place winners from across the country. For years Each young artist will be joined by their Member of Congress and his/her artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol through May 2019. ###
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Green was honored by the Biotechnology Innovation Organization (BIO) for his leadership as an Innovator in Biotechnology. The biotechnology industry supports 89,746 jobs across 5,578 establishments in Texas. “I am happy to accept the Innovator in Biotechnology award on behalf of BIO. As the Ranking Member on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, I was happy to work with my Republican and Democratic colleagues on the committee to pass into law the FDA Reauthorization Act, which reauthorized critical user fee programs that contribute to the success of many biotechnology products and advances patience are.” The biotech and life science industry is an integral part of the U.S economy – creating high-skill, high-wage jobs that are innovating in the health, energy, agriculture and environmental industries. “Rep. Green’s leadership in supporting the biotechnology industry has supported 89,746 jobs in Texas. As we continue to grow and innovate, these good-paying jobs will not only strengthen the economy, but they will help to heal, fuel, and feed the world,” said BIO President and CEO Jim Greenwood. “We look forward to continuing to work with Rep. Green to support these workers and the critical, life-saving work that they do in Texas.” ###
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement before the House of Representatives vote on a ‘balanced budget amendment’ that would cut federal programs like Social Security and Medicare: “This Monday, we heard that federal deficits are going to be almost $2 trillion more over the next decade than previously projected. While there is more than one reason for our exploding deficit, the GOP’s tax reform bill increased our deficit by almost 20%. Last fall, I and many of my colleagues voiced our fears that the so-called party of fiscal conservatism was going to try to pay for their tax bill by gutting Medicare and Social Security. I agree with the amendment’s authors that Congress urgently needs to address our debt. If Congress advanced a carefully structured balanced budget amendment, with waivers to allow fast action to stabilize the markets in the event of a financial crisis like the one we faced just a few short years ago, and with waivers to allow us to fulfill the promises that we have already made to our country’s senior citizens, I would support it. But this amendment does not do that. It endangers our long-term prosperity in order to pay short-term lip service to fiscal responsibility. I do not support potentially pulling the rug out from under Americans counting on their Medicare and Social Security benefits, who have been relying on the promises our government made to them for their whole lives. I do not support action that increases the likelihood that our country will be plunged once again into recession, endangering markets and economies worldwide. And I do not agree that the cost of larger tax breaks for multinational companies or of other fiscal decisions made by Congress should be borne by our country’s elderly and sick.”
04.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement in response to U.S. Department of Housing and Development (HUD) announcing it would award Texas more than $ 5 billion, and $62 million for the City of Houston, in community development block grants to support long-term disaster recovery. The grants come from a $28 billion disaster relief fund created by Congress under the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018. “I am glad that HUD has acted and awarded Houston and Texas with these critical block grants to help our communities rebuild from Hurricane Harvey. Tens of thousands of Texans in Houston and Harris County are still in great need for housing and assistance, months after Harvey made landfall. Federal and state officials need to ensure that these resources will be deployed as soon as possible to help disaster victims in greatest need and help prepare Houston and Harris County for the next major storm.” “There is still more that we can do for our communities affected by this disaster. I will continue to work with my colleagues to assure that our hardest hit communities receive the assistance they need from all levels of government.”
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, two Energy and Commerce Committee members introduced bipartisan legislation that would reauthorize the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program for five years at $330 million for the fiscal year 2019. The bill is sponsored by Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX) and Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Chairman Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-TX). The Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program provides direct financial support to children’s hospitals to train medical residents and fellows. The program is administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and is authorized in Section 340E of the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) Hospitals typically receive support for graduate medical education (GME) through Medicare, and those payments are provided to hospitals based on their Medicare patient volume. Because the Medicare program is used primarily by people who are over the age of 65, and children’s hospitals treat primarily people below the age of 18, children’s hospitals have low Medicare patient volume and receive few Medicare GME payments. “A robust pediatric workforce is essential to ensuring that no child lacks access to high-quality medical care,” said Rep. Green. “The CHGME recipient hospitals represent less than one percent of all hospitals, yet train half of all the nation’s pediatricians and pediatric specialists. Reauthorizing CHGME represents a commitment to ensuring that children throughout the country have access to the quality care they need.” “Children’s access to quality healthcare is a key priority for me, and reauthorizing the Children’s Hospital Graduate Medical Education is yet another step in our bipartisan commitment to ensure children’s teaching hospitals have the resources to train the next generation of pediatricians and pediatric specialists,” said Rep. Burgess. “Strengthening the pediatric workforce and propelling innovative pediatric research are critical components realized through this program. Throughout his time in Congress, Rep. Green has been a tireless advocate for children’s health care, and I appreciate my fellow Texan’s work on this important issue.” Similar legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA). ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a $1.3 trillion package that will fund the government for the remainder of the 2018 fiscal year: While the bill is not perfect, it does invest in critical priorities like child care, transportation and infrastructure, medical research, opioid abuse, veterans’ health insurance, and much more. Community Health Centers, which provide essential help all throughout my district will receive an extra $135 million increase over last year’s total to expand addiction prevention and treatment services. Also, children’s providers will get a boost in their reimbursement rates under the Child Care and Development Block Grant. Protecting the health of our children should be one of our first priorities as Members of Congress and I am glad to see this bill do so. That National Institute of Health will also receive a $3 billion boost in funding, allowing new research that could lead to cures for ailments and disease that have gone untreatable. The bill also includes $500 million to drive the development of alternative pain medicine, so that people may one choose a pain management treatment that does not involve the risk of opioids. While I am disappointed that this bill does not address DACA recipients, I will continue to push my colleagues to come together to address this pressing issue. President Trump’s campaign promise to deport 2-3 million people is contrary to the values that make this country great. Not only will his empty promise separate families, but it’ll negatively affect the future of our economic stability. Our country depends on the hard-working young men and women who are pursuing their dreams to become doctors, engineers and members of the Armed Forces. We are stronger as a nation when we embrace immigrants and their contributions to our communities and shouldn’t vilify them. I am also pleased to see that the bill does not include any funding for construction of new sections of a border wall. Texas has seven hundred miles of border with Mexico and trade with Mexico drives much of our economy in the region. While border security is essential, and this bill addresses that with money for the refurbishment of existing structures and fencing, the President’s proposal would simply amount to a large waste of money. ###
03.21.2018	Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX) delivered the following opening remarks today at the Subcommittee on Health hearing on “Combatting the Opioid Crisis: Prevention and Public Health Solutions:” “Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding today’s hearing on the opioid crisis and public health solutions. I thank our witnesses with the Department of Health and Human Services and engaged stakeholders for joining us today on this snowy morning. One-hundred fifteen (115) Americans die from overdosing on opioids every day. The misuse of, and addiction, to opioids – including prescription pain relievers, heroin, and synthetic opioids like fentanyl – is a serious national crisis that affects public health, as well as the social and economic welfare of communities throughout America. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that the total “economic burden” of prescription opioid misuse in the United States is $78.5 billion a year, including the costs of healthcare, lost productivity, addiction treatment, and criminal justice involvement. It is imperative that Congress and our federal public health agencies advance policies that will help our fellow Americans struggling with opioid addiction and prevent abuse and misuse from happening in the first place. Bills Introduced to Combat the Crisis One of the bills I am working on, currently a discussion draft, would authorize the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to consider the potential for misuse and abuse when assessing the risks and benefits of controlled substances for purposes of approval. It is important that as our committee crafts legislation on the opioid crisis, we give FDA clear authority to consider potential misuse and abuse of a product when the risks outweigh the benefits. I hope to hear from our panelists today how we can best tailor my proposal that will clarify FDA authority while ensuring that it is targeting the controlled substances that are fueling the opioid crisis. Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act, H.R. 5327 The second bill I am working on, with Congressman Guthrie, Lujan and Bucshon, is the Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act, H.R. 5327. This bill creates a grant program administered through the Department of Health and Human Services to fund designated centers where individuals can obtain comprehensive patient-centered care for the treatment of opioid addiction and other substance use disorders. Under the Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act, each grantee would be required to provide, either directly or through agreement with other entities, a set range of coordinated evidence-based treatment and recovery services. Grantees would also be required to monitor and report on the effectiveness of these programs as well as provide outreach to their communities on the services they are providing. I’ve been a longtime proponent of increasing access to health care in our communities. It was surprising to me to learn how confusing and limited the options are for patients with substance use disorder. I’m hoping this piece of legislation will help transform our treatment system and help patients more easily navigate their options for care. I look forward to asking questions of our panelists as to how to make sure the purpose of this bill is carried out in the most effective way. While our committee is examining how best to combat opioid abuse, I need to remind my colleagues on the critical importance of ensuring affordable health care coverage with essential benefits as part of the solution to this crisis. We cannot help American struggling with opioid abuse if they do not have health coverage, or have coverage that does not provide the full range of essential health services that are supposed to be guaranteed under the Affordable Care Act. I would like to share some concerns before I conclude. Many Members of our committee, including myself, are concerned about the number of bills we are considering during our two-day hearing. While we all agree on the magnitude of the opioid crisis and the importance of concrete congressional action, I am concerned that we will only be able to give brief attention to many of the bills before us today and tomorrow due to the number of bills we are considering, 25 in total. While many of bills are non-controversial and bipartisan, there are bills that need to be improved before they are ready for consideration before the full House of Representatives. I hope the Chairman will commit to work with us on our concerns before bringing these bills to a markup. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield the remainder of my time.”
03.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Bob Latta (R-OH) has introduced bipartisan legislation with members of the Energy and Commerce Committee to reform the outdated over-the-counter (OTC) monograph system. The legislation, the Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act, modernizes the monograph framework and allows new, safe products to come to market more quickly while addressing safety issues and expanding consumer choice. This would allow the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to make scientific determinations for OTC ingredients through an administrative order process, which is much more efficient than the current rulemaking system. Introducing the legislation with Rep. Latta are Rep. Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY), and Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI). “Nearly every American uses over-the-counter products in some way,” said Latta. “Whether it’s treating allergies, helping with a cough, or seeking relief for a headache, consumers want medicine that is safe, reliable, and affordable. It’s time to create a pathway for industry to enhance over-the-counter medicines and develop new, innovative products that will be a welcome addition to the current products so many American’s depend on today. By modernizing the decades-old monograph system and improving the way OTC drugs are approved, this bill will provide more certainty for manufacturers, ensure consumer confidence, and foster innovation. The legislation introduced today was the result of bipartisan collaboration and discussion, and it’s a big win for the countless consumers that purchase over-the-counter products.” “As a physician and more recently as a congressman, I have witnessed much change in the health care industry over the last 40 years; however, the over-the-counter monograph system has not had a significant update since 1972,” said Burgess. “With more than 300,000 over-the-counter products on the market, that is far too long to wait. The bill introduced today will ensure that American development remains at the helm of over-the-counter drug innovation. I am grateful to Congressman Latta for his leadership on this issue, and I look forward to bringing our over-the-counter monograph system into the 21st century.” “I’m pleased to work together with my colleagues on a very important bipartisan bill that will streamline and modernize FDA’s Over-the-Counter (OTC) monograph system and create user fees to provide much needed resources to improve the oversight and approval of OTC products,” said Green. “The monograph system will become more flexible, better reflect the top science we have, and be more responsive to public health concerns when they emerge. I believe it will also encourage innovation in OTC products by assuring sponsors of future applications that they will not be faced with unhelpful administrative burden or delay.” “I’m proud to have shepherded this legislation along from research to writing to this latest step,” said DeGette. “It will modernize how the FDA reviews over-the-counter medicines, a process that has not been updated since the 1970s. The current system simply has not kept pace with science, innovation and growth in the OTC market. Most importantly, this bill takes commonsense steps that will help the FDA prevent and address safety issues rapidly and efficiently.” “Over-the-counter drugs provide an affordable way for Americans to seek medical treatment,” said Guthrie. “Unfortunately, the current FDA approval process for over-the-counter products is too slow, delaying important innovations that can help patients more quickly. The Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act will reform and modernize the antiquated monograph approval system and allow more innovative drug treatments to enter the market safely. I was proud to work with Representatives Latta, Burgess, Green, DeGette, and Dingell on this bill, and I am working with all of our colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee to move this bill as soon as possible.” “Americans rely on over-the-counter medicines to treat everything from colds to headaches,” said Dingell. “As scientific research advances, we must ensure that the approval process for these products keeps pace with innovation. Unfortunately, the over-the-counter drug system hasn’t been updated in decades, delaying innovative treatments and making it harder for FDA to do its job of keeping people safe. I’m pleased to introduce this bipartisan legislation with my colleagues to modernize this broken system so we can ensure that new, safe and reliable products get to those who need them.” The OTC monograph system was established in 1972 by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to review the safety and efficacy of the OTC medicine ingredients then on the market, including doses, formulations, and labeling. Any OTC that conforms to a monograph may be manufactured and sold without an individual product approval. In the 45 years since the system was created, the process has not been completed and movement on unfinished items has been slow. The system has become a hindrance that does not allow for advances in science and new information concerning the safety of an ingredient. The draft legislation updates the monograph process by specifically adding a new section to the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to: • Move away from the cumbersome current monograph finalization process to an administrative order procedure. Additional processes will be in place to ensure recourse should issues arise. • Create new pathways to innovation for monograph products benefiting consumers, where none currently exits. • Ensure the new drug approval pathway and other nonprescription drugs otherwise lawfully marketed are not affected. • Include by reference existing OTC Review Final Monographs and deem final Tentative Final Monographs by statute. ###
03.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Brett Guthrie (R-KY), vice chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Health Subcommittee, and Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), ranking member of the Health Subcommittee, today introduced the Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018 (H.R. 5327). Guthrie and Green were joined by colleagues Congressmen Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM) and Larry Bucshon, M.D. (R-IN), in support of this bill. Today many Americans are suffering from addiction and have few options for comprehensive treatment. The current addiction treatment system in the United States is fragmented, made up of numerous types of settings providing varying degrees of treatment services. The Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018 would allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award grants to treatment facilities in order to establish or operate comprehensive centers that provide a full range of treatment services. The bill requires evidence-based practices and data reporting to ensure accountability, allowing for treatments such as detoxification, the use of FDA-approved medications for substance abuse disorders, and a number of other services. “Opioid addiction is taking a terrible toll across the country and especially in Kentucky,” said Guthrie. “Just like there is no single reason why someone may become addicted to opioids, there cannot be a one-size-fits all approach to treating addiction. Unfortunately, too many treatment centers only offer one type of service, but that service might not be the best approach for all of their patients. The Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act will help provide services that encompass more available options for treating opioid addiction, allowing patients to receive better-tailored treatments that match their specific needs. I was proud to work with Congressmen Green, Lujan, and Bucshon to introduce this bill, taking another important step forward in combating our nation’s opioid epidemic.” “We all want to end the opioid epidemic and save as many lives as possible,” said Green. “What we need is a comprehensive plan that employs proven public health strategies and spans the entire spectrum from prevention to treatment and recovery. I’m proud to work with Congressman Brett Guthrie on a bipartisan solution that will create a grant program for comprehensive opioid recovery centers. Our legislation will require designated centers to provide wraparound services for Americans suffering from opioid addiction, including counseling, recovery housing, and job training. It is our intention to use this new program to identify standards and best practices that can be deployed nationwide.” Background: The Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018 would award grants on a competitive basis to eligible entities to establish or operate Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers. Grants can be renewed for additional periods of time with the Secretary’s approval following consideration of treatment results data required to be submitted by all participants. Either directly or through coordination with other entities, every Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Center must provide the following services: Intake evaluations that meet the individual clinical needs of patients. Periodic patient assessments. A full continuum of treatment services, including: FDA-approved medications for the treatment of substance use disorders, including opioid use disorder and alcohol use disorder; Detoxification; Counseling; Residential rehabilitation; Recovery housing; Community-based and peer recovery support services; Job training and placement assistance; and Other best practices as determined by the HHS Secretary. Pharmacy and toxicology services. A secure and confidential electronic health information system. Each center must have an outreach team to disseminate resources to educate professionals and the public on opioid use disorder and other substance use disorders. Each center must submit data to the HHS Secretary, and the HHS Secretary must submit a preliminary report to Congress analyzing data collected by the centers three years following enactment. ###
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Gene Green (TX-29), issued the following statement after voting against legislation that would weaken the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA): “I am deeply disappointed that my Republican colleagues voted today to roll back basic rights for disabled Americans, taking a major step backward as a country. Ensuring basic accommodations for all Americans, including Americans with disabilities, ought to be a bipartisan issue. Despite being aimed at the very small number of abusive ADA suits brought by lawyers rather than disabled persons, this bill makes no attempt to distinguish between legitimate ADA suits and suits brought by non-disabled, repeat complainants. All it does is remove any incentive for businesses to proactively comply with ADA access requirements, and weaken the access standard under the ADA while having no effect on lawsuits that seek damages under state, not federal, laws.” ###
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Gene Green (TX-29), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Al Green (TX-9), Filemon Vela (TX-34), and Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) issued the following statement regarding their support of the continuing resolution that contains a bipartisan budget agreement, funds the government through March 23 and provides relief for Hurricane Harvey victims: “Communities in our districts and along the Texas Gulf Coast have waited for more than five months for Congress to pass a comprehensive relief bill aimed at funding recovery efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. Today’s legislation will deliver $89 billion in hurricane relief for Texas and other states impacted by last year’s major disasters, allowing our communities to continue rebuilding schools, businesses, and homes that suffered severe damage last August. This disaster relief package additionally includes $15 billion for flood control projects through the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The Bipartisan Budget Act will very likely be the most significant bipartisan legislation to pass Congress this year. The health and well-being of families and children we represent are among our top priorities. By extending and increasing funding for critical programs like community health centers for the next two years, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for the next 10 years, and Medicaid provisions that allow our rural hospitals to continue to provide critical access to healthcare, we can give our constituents certainty that they have access to reliable and affordable healthcare – no matter their socioeconomic status. Families should never have to receive letters from the state informing them that they might lose their healthcare coverage. Additionally, the funding for our military in The Bipartisan Budget Act will help address critical shortfalls in US Navy readiness, such as the tragic USS John S. McCain and USS Fitzgerald collisions, the latter of which resulted in the death of Gunner’s Mate 2nd Class Noe Hernandez, a South Texas native. The funding portion of the Bipartisan Budget Act excludes border wall funding, signifying a victory for Texans along the US-Mexico border. We will continue to push so that landowners along the southern border can keep their property safe from seizure by the federal government. Our views align with those of a majority of Americans who favor protections for DREAMers and we will not give up until the Republican majority opens debate on a permanent fix for DACA recipients. It is our hope that we can address immigration legislation in a fair, bipartisan manner and give certainty to our DREAMers." ###
01.23.2018	HOUSTON, TX - "The government shutdown could have been avoided, but the fact is the Republican majority is in control of the House, Senate, and White House. We are five months into the 2018 fiscal year and have passed four short-term spending bills. Our country isn’t winning when our military, government agencies, and important federal programs are operating under short-term spending bills. Unfortunately, we continue to kick down the road and avoid addressing funding for important priorities like disaster aid for Harvey victims, reauthorizing community health centers, protections for DREAMers, and the opioid epidemic. The American people are tired of the partisanship that has kept Washington from doing its job. They expect results and it’s our job to deliver."
01.16.2018	HOUSTON, TX – Today, Rep. Gene Green, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement in response to a Gallup survey that estimated 3.2 million Americans became uninsured under President Trump’s first year: “During the first seven years under the Affordable Care Act, the uninsured rate dropped to a record low of 10.9% in the third and fourth quarters of 2016. Instead of building on the successes of the ACA, the Republican majority and the Trump Administration tried everything possible last year to undermine the ACA and sabotage the marketplaces, causing confusion and uncertainty for millions of Americans. By looking at the numbers for the 2018 ACA open enrollment period, approximately 8.82 million beneficiaries who enrolled in a health plan believe they deserve access to affordable healthcare. Healthcare is a right and not a privilege, and I will continue to defend the ACA and work to increase access for all Americans.” ###
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Gene Green, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement in response to the Trump Administration issuing guidance to states to allow work requirements for Medicaid recipients: “Work requirements for Medicaid recipients are a cruel and counterproductive policy. The Trump Administration needs to work with Congress to keep Americans healthy and able to work, instead of making it harder for Americans to obtain and keep their health insurance. Terminating Medicaid coverage for someone who does not meet a work requirement will simply make it harder, not easier, to get or keep a job.” “The lives of more than a million Texans who are enrolled in Medicaid would be impacted by a work requirement. I would also argue that the guidance is a misuse of the 1115 waiver allowed under federal law. 1115 waivers are intended to promote the objectives of the program. A work requirement would clearly be contradictory to that claim.” ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Gene Green issued the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to advance a partisan tax bill that will negatively impact middle-class Americans: “This bill will do more harm than good for middle-class families and individuals who live paycheck-to-paycheck. It’s a shame that the Republican majority used a closed legislative process to rush this bill through instead of including Democrats in the discussions to work on a bipartisan bill. Republican leadership chose a partisan path that will raise taxes on 86 million middle-class households and give 83 percent of its tax cuts to the wealthiest 1 percent The American public won’t be fooled by Republicans’ disingenuous claims about tax cuts. What Republicans aren’t mentioning is that the benefits they boast about only go until 2025. The corporate tax cuts, on the other hand, are permanent. The cost of those cuts to the American people will be with us long past 2025. The tax bill may result in significant cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, and will cause 13 million people to lose their health insurance. This bill is fiscally irresponsible and will saddle future generations with $2 trillion added to our deficit. The last time America’s tax system was overhauled was in 1986, but it was done on a bipartisan basis and was completely transparent. The Republicans this time around decided to jam a strictly partisan bill and shutout Democrats from the entire process. Americans deserve A Better Deal." ###
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Gene Green issued the following statement after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) voted to roll back Obama-era net neutrality protections: “American consumers need to be assured that the online content of their choosing will not be unfairly slowed down or blocked. That assurance was stripped away in a partisan 3-2 vote by the FCC today. I am very disappointed in the FCC’s actions and hope Congress will act and work on passing legislation that will make these critical net neutrality protections permanent.” ###
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Gene Green (D-TX-29) reiterated his support for H.R. 4563, the Georgian Fair Business Practices Sanctions Act of 2017. Congressman Green is a co-sponsor of the legislation, which would commission semiannual reports on the business environment for U.S. companies in Georgia. If it is determined that the Georgian government is acting to undermine contractual agreements with U.S. companies, H.R. 4563 would impose sanctions on the Government of Georgia. “An unfair or corrupt business environment hurts the Georgian economy and the people who rely on it, as well as investors,” said Rep. Green. “All who work and live in Georgia, foreigners and Georgians, ought to be able to rely on robust respect for the rule of law, without interference from powerful actors unbound by contractual commitments.” The Georgian Fair Business Practices Sanctions Act of 2017 was introduced in response to multiple reports of the Government of Georgia undermining contracts with foreign businesses. ###
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Donald Trump signed into law the fiscal year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which includes provisions from the Domestic Maritime Centers of Excellence Act (H.R. 2286), introduced by Congressman Gene Green (D-TX-29). The Domestic Maritime Centers of Excellence Act authorizes federal designation of community and technical college “centers of excellence” to help provide technical education and training programs that will secure the talent pipeline for the nation’s maritime workforce. A shortage of qualified maritime workers has been identified by U.S. industry leaders as the primary challenge to growth in the domestic maritime sector. The maritime industry requires technical skills training and licensing – even for entry-level positions. To earn appropriate credentials for each level of maritime industry employment, workers must complete regular training. Community and technical colleges can provide this training – on an affordable basis. “In our district, we have a surplus of maritime jobs and not enough people with the skills and training to fill them,” said Rep. Green. “The industry is continuing to invest and grow along the Port of Houston, and we want to make sure that our constituents have the opportunity to take these high skilled, middle-class jobs. This bipartisan legislation will help bridge the gap. It’s good for our local community, it’s good for our businesses, and it’s good for the American economy.” Unless action is taken to expand the availability of domestic maritime workforce technical training, the continued lack of federal government focus on domestic maritime industry technical training, the aging- out of the maritime workforce, technological advancements, and the expansion of the Panama Canal are all factors that will compound the domestic maritime workforce shortage in the years ahead. Numerous community and technical colleges across the country are capable of providing leadership in domestic maritime workforce training. Two-year public colleges with maritime and marine technology workforce technical training programs, such as San Jacinto College, serving eastern Harris County, Texas, are capable of working with the U.S. Maritime Administration (MARAD), and U.S. industry to secure the domestic maritime workforce talent pipeline. San Jacinto College and other community and technical colleges seek federal designation as centers of excellence to expand their capacity to train greater numbers of U.S. workers for maritime industry jobs. “We are truly grateful to Rep. Gene Green for supporting the important role community colleges hold in the training of mariners for the workforce,” said Brenda Hellyer, Ed.D., Chancellor of San Jacinto College. “San Jacinto College’s maritime program is located along one of the busiest ports in the United States. We commit to producing highly qualified mariners and aim to alleviate the shortages occurring due to retirements and the expanding global market.” Under the provisions of Congressman Green’s Domestic Maritime Centers of Excellence Act, which has become law as part of the NDAA, MARAD can support community and technical college centers of excellence by providing funding and support, technical assistance, and donating surplus federal assets for maritime education – such as marine vessels for use in training programs. The centers of excellence designation will enable colleges to expand their capacity to train domestic maritime workers by admitting more students, training faculty, expanding facilities, creating new maritime career pathways from associate degree to baccalaureate degree programs, and awarding credit for prior learning experience – including military service. ###
12.07.2017	Congressman Gene Green today delivered the following statement on the House floor on the Republican majority’s 2-week Continuing Resolution: "Mr. Speaker, I rise to urge my colleagues to act and pass much needed supplemental appropriations to help victims of the recent hurricanes in Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Hurricane Harvey brought unprecedented destruction to the Texas Gulf Coast, dropping a record 52 inches of rain and causing catastrophic flooding in Houston and all along the Gulf Coast. Earlier this week, a report released by the Kaiser Family Foundation and Episcopal Health Foundation found that one in nine Texas Gulf Coast residents remain displaced, three months after Harvey’s landfall. Four in ten Texas Gulf Coast residents report sustained damage to their homes and nearly half of affected Texas Gulf Coast residents said they are not receiving the help they need to recover from the hurricane. To date the federal government has provided $10 billion in aid to Harvey victims in Texas, mostly advance payments through the National Flood Insurance Program. However, far more federal aid is needed to rebuild Houston, Harris County, and the Texas Gulf Coast. After Hurricane Katrina hit Louisiana and Mississippi, and Hurricane Sandy impacted New York and New Jersey, Congress responded by passing substantial disaster supplemental bills. In 2013, Congress provided over $50 billion for recovery and rebuilding efforts as a result of Sandy, and $120 billion to rebuild New Orleans and surrounding areas. I cannot and will not vote for a continuing resolution until House leadership puts disaster relief front and center and passes a substantial supplemental disaster bill that will help Texans fully recover from Harvey’s destruction and prepare the Texas Gulf Coast before the next major storm strikes. We cannot continue to kick-the-can down the road while thousands of families in Texas and other parts of our country continue to suffer, months after these terrible storms made landfall. I urge my colleagues, regardless of state and party, to join me in standing up for disaster victims and calling on House leadership to pass a substantial emergency supplemental. Thank you, Mr. Speaker."
12.06.2017	Congressman Gene Green released the following statement about his decision to vote to table Congressman Al Green’s resolution calling for the impeachment of President Trump: “While I disapprove President Trump and most of his policy actions since he has been in office, I believe that we should allow our judicial institutions to do their job before we begin to debate impeachment of the president. Rep. Al Green and I are good friends and I’m proud to serve with him in the Houston-area, but impeachment is a process that should not be rushed. During the impeachment proceedings of Presidents Nixon and Clinton, it took several months to investigate before a final vote. This time around, we have Special Counsel Robert Mueller and Select Committees on Intelligence in both chambers investigating President Trump and his top associates for possible collusion with Russia during the 2016 elections. If the investigation from the Special Counsel or select committees leads to findings of obstruction of justice or other impeachable offenses, then we can begin that conversation. But now is not the time for impeachment.” ###
11.27.2017	I want to thank every constituent who has called, emailed, or sent a letter to our office to oppose Federal Communications CommissionChairman Pai’s proposal. I, too, oppose the FCC’s awful plan. Net neutrality is important for several reasons: It protects Internet freedom, drives innovation, and protects American consumers. There could be adverse consequences for American consumers and our economy if the current net neutrality rules are eliminated, which protect consumers from having content of their choice being blocked or slowed down. These protections have allowed a whole new sector of our economy to develop and create thousands of jobs in Texas and throughout our country. There must be rules in place that protect the Internet for small businesses, consumers, and innovators from potential abuse. This is why I oppose this proposal and urge FCC Chairman Pai to reverse his proposal.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Gene Green released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “It’s a shame that the House Republican majority rushed to pass a tax bill knowing it will increase taxes for middle-class Americans and deliver a huge tax cut to the wealthiest households and multinational corporations. Republicans may pretend to hope that the money will trickle down to average Americans, but we know it didn’t work in 1986, 2001, or 2003, and it surely won’t work today. To pay for the tax cuts for the rich, the Republican majority plans to eliminate tax deductions that millions of middle-class families claim annually and make deep cuts to Medicare and Medicaid, which will lead to 36 million middle-class families paying more. I am particularly concerned about the elimination of the casualty loss deduction, which currently allows disaster victims in Houston and Harris County to write off the loss of their home, car and other property caused by Hurricane Harvey. The Republican majority has thrown out its fiscal conservatism by irresponsibly adding to our nation’s deficit by $1.5 trillion. And if that isn’t bad enough, the Senate version will increase the number of insured Americans by 13 million simply by repealing the individual mandate under the Affordable Care Act. The last time America’s tax system was overhauled was in 1986, but it was done on a bipartisan basis and took at least a year before there was a final vote. The Republicans this time around decided to jam a strictly partisan bill and shutout Democrats from the entire process. Americans deserve A Better Deal." ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, the House of Representatives passed the Conference Report on the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), a bipartisan defense policy bill that authorizes $692 billion in defense spending in fiscal year 2018. Included in the authorization is a provision based on legislation introduced by Reps. Green (D-TX) and Rob Wittman (R-VA), H.R. 2286, the Domestic Maritime Centers of Excellence Act. The Domestic Maritime Centers of Excellence Act was introduced in May 2017 and was successfully added as an amendment to the NDAA during the committee markup. It will authorize the U.S. Maritime Administration to designate and provide assistance to certain community colleges and workforce training centers as “centers of excellence” that provide valuable skills in the maritime sector. The provision, Section 3507, will advance the capabilities of two-year community and technical colleges to expand the talent pipeline for domestic maritime industry jobs at the Port of Houston and other ports around the country. “We have a surplus of good-paying maritime jobs in our district and not enough people with the skills and training to fill them,” said Green. “The industry is continuing to invest and grow along the Port of Houston. We need to make sure that members of our community have the opportunity to secure these highly skilled jobs. This bipartisan legislation will go far to help bridge the gap. It’s good for our local community, it’s good for our businesses, and it’s good for the American economy.” Other provisions in the 2018 NDAA include: A much deserved 2.4 percent pay increase and extension of special pay and bonuses for service members. Support for military families by prohibiting the proposed reduction in inpatient care for military medical treatment facilities located outside the United States. Provisions to strengthen deterrence against Russian aggression Acknowledging climate change is a direct threat to U.S. national security interests and requires a report on vulnerabilities to military installations and commands. A copy of the Domestic Maritime Centers of Excellence Act can be found HERE. ###
11.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Green (D-TX) released the following statement on his decision to not seek reelection: “Serving as an elected official is one of the greatest honors our country can bestow on a person. I have been blessed and fortunate to serve almost 46 years in elected office. Since 1973, I have served as a Texas State Representative for 13 years, Texas State Senator for seven years and since 1993 as a member of the United States Congress. Our family has known politics and public service throughout their lives. My wife, Helen, has been a partner every step of the way for our 47 years of marriage. The goal of every elected official should be to serve and help your constituency to have a better life for their families. I am proud of sponsoring events in our district such as having Immunization Day each year for the past 20 years to provide free vaccinations for children and Citizenship Day each year for the past 22 years to help legal residents to become citizens of our great country. We have also held Job Fairs twice a year to help people find employment and Paying for College Workshops to help students find the resources to allow them to afford to go to college. At home or in Washington my goal is to impact legislation for the benefit of our constituents. Serving on the Energy and Commerce Committee helped to put a Texas view on the expansion of Health Care access and expand job opportunities in our district. We have held many town hall meetings each year and have been accessible to people in our district. Our staff in Houston and Washington has been dedicated to helping our constituents with problems in many different areas such as Social Security, Veterans Affairs, and Immigration. I have been blessed to have such a dedicated staff to help me do the job of a Member of Congress. I have been fortunate to have never lost an election since 1972 and I am confident that I still have the support of my constituents and would be successful if I ran for another term in Congress. However, I have decided that I will not be filing for re-election in 2018. I think that it is time for me to be more involved in the lives of our children and grandchildren. I have had to miss so many of their activities and after 26 years in Congress it is time to devote more time to my most important job of being a husband, father, and grandfather. I and our staff will continue to serve our district until our term is over at the end of 2018.” ###
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Following a state-by-state assessment conducted by the non-partisan Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, Congressman Green today released information finding that the Ryan-McConnell tax bill will increase taxes for 1.2 million households in Texas earning $75,180, an average of $650 increase per household. “After looking at the tax plan released by my GOP colleagues, I do not believe it will be good for the country or for the 29th District of Texas, and I cannot support it,” said Green. “While there may be some short-term, slight tax decreases for some, most of the benefit by far will go to the wealthy and to large businesses. In the long term, I fear the bill’s impacts will be even worse for the low-income and the middle class.” The Ryan-McConnell tax bill eliminates vital tax deductions used by millions of middle-class families nationwide. The GOP bill would begin double taxing families’ income by dismantling the State and Local Tax Deduction, impose a new cap on the mortgage interest deduction that hurts future homebuyers and drives down home values, eliminate the student loan interest deduction and critical job training credits, and eliminate the vital medical expense deduction relied on by families with sick children and by seniors with long-term care needs. Meanwhile, under the Ryan-McConnell bill, corporations would get new incentives for shipping American jobs overseas. Corporate America would also get vast, permanent tax breaks, in addition to being allowed to keep certain deductions that Republicans eliminate for individuals and families – such as the State and Local Tax Deduction. “I’m also afraid of where the GOP thinks they can find the money to help pay for this plan,” said Green. “More than likely, that money will come from programs for the low-income and the elderly. Where is that concern about the deficit now? I’d like to know what programs the majority plans to eliminate to pay for this $1.5 trillion tax break.” ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Representatives Gene Green (TX-29) and Pete Olson (TX-22) introduced a resolution Friday congratulating the Houston Astros on winning the 2017 Major League Baseball World Series, the first World Series title for the franchise, which began as the Houston Colt .45s in 1962. “After everything Houston has experienced since Hurricane Harvey, it was a true joy to see our Astros unify the city and bring home the championship,” said Green. “Every single player and coach who contributed to the success of this season deserves to be recognized. The team put the city on their backs and played as hard as they could, every inning, and every game throughout the season and playoffs. We have been waiting for a long time for a World Series title and are proud of what our team accomplished. Thank you to the Astros for bringing Houston a sense of hope. Together, we all earned history.” “All of Houston is incredibly proud of our Astros baseball team who delivered a stunning victory for our city,” said Olson. “The resiliency of this team reflects the resiliency of our city and region in the wake of Hurricane Harvey. This team never quit and delivered the inspiration we needed to get us through some dark times. As we continue our rebuilding, we’ve watched a young team with talent and heart rack up win after win, beating stellar teams like the New York Yankees and the Los Angeles Dodgers to bring home our first World Series title. This victory is a shared victory by the team and a city that has stood by our team through good and bad. We are immensely proud of this victory and honored to share this moment with this organization! The Astros and everyone from our region are #HoustonStrong and this is truly #EarnedHistory.” Cosponsors of the resolution include Reps. Jodey Arrington, Brian Babin, Joe Barton, Michael Burgess, Kevin Brady, John Carter, Michael Conaway, John Culberson, Lloyd Doggett, Blake Farenthold, Bill Flores, Louie Gohmert, Vicente Gonzalez, Kay Granger, Al Green, Jeb Hensarling, Will Hurd, Sheila Jackson Lee, Kenny Marchant, Michael McCaul, Ted Poe, John Ratcliffe, Pete Sessions, Lamar Smith, and Randy Weber. Full text of the resolution below and PDF can be read HERE: RESOLUTION Congratulating the Houston Astros on winning the 2017 Major League Baseball World Series. Whereas the Houston Astros, having proudly represented the City of Houston, Texas, in professional baseball since 1962, won their first World Series title in 55 years; Whereas the Houston Astros capped off a thrilling series to defeat the National League Champion Los Angeles Dodgers in game seven, by a score of 5 to 1; Whereas the 2017 Houston Astros championship team demonstrated grit, sportsmanship, tenacity, and resolve in winning 101 regular season games and their first American League Central Division championship; Whereas the 2017 Houston Astros demonstrated steadfastness and pluck when faced with playoff elimination, winning the American League Championship Series in seven games over the New York Yankees, and the American League Division Series in four games over the Boston Red Sox; Whereas the 2017 Houston Astros rode the strength and unity of communities across the Texas Gulf Coast in the wake of Hurricane Harvey’s flooding and devastation, and delivered hope to Texans and Americans everywhere; Whereas the 2017 Houston Astros further galvanized the City of Houston to come together and root the Astros to victory; Whereas Houston Astros Manager, A.J. Hinch, provided vital leadership and guided the team to its second playoff berth in his three seasons with the team; Whereas President of Business Operations, Reid Ryan, and General Manager, Jeff Luhnow, and their baseball operations staffs assembled a championship-caliber team with a Major League-best offense and a deep starting rotation; Whereas Jim Crane, the Houston Astros’ Chairman and Owner, and the rest of the Astros family never wavered in their quest to bring a World Series championship to Houston; Whereas the Houston Astros beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 4 games to 3 thanks to a historic performance by outfielder George Springer, who was awarded the Willie Mays World Series Most Valuable Player Award after garnering a Major League record eight extra-base hits and homering in a record four straight games in theWorld Series; Whereas the Houston Astros beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 4 games to 3 thanks to the dominant starting pitching performances of Justin Verlander, and the timely hits by second baseman Jose Altuve, shortstop Carlos Correa, and third baseman Alex Bregman; Whereas the Houston Astros’ World Series roster included players Jose Altuve, Carlos Beltran, Alex Bregman, Juan Centeno, Carlos Correa, Chris Devenski, Derek Fisher, Evan Gattis, Ken Giles, Marwin Gonzales, Luke Gregerson, Yuli Gurriel, Will Harris, Dallas Keuchel, Cameron Maybin, Brian McCann, Lance McCullers, Jr., Collin McHugh, Charlie Morton, Joe Musgrove, Francisco Liriano, Brad Peacock, Josh Reddick, George Springer, and Justin Verlander: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— recognizes the Houston Astros for their dis tinguished history, contributions to the baseball world, and their drive to help the Houston commu nity heal after Hurricane Harvey; congratulates the Houston Astros on American League Central-best regular season and 2017 World Series Championship; recognizes the contributions of the Houston Astros’ players, coaches, and leadership of the organization; and joins with all the people in the United States and baseball fans everywhere in celebrating Houston’s long-awaited, first-ever World Series championship. ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green, Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on the partisan House Republican bill to reauthorize funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program and Federally Qualified Health Community Centers: “While I strongly support extending funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs), delaying cuts to Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) payments, and advancing other critical healthcare programs, this legislation includes offsets that undermine access to coverage and services and shortchanges the American citizens in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Both CHIP and FQHCs are bedrocks of our health care system, providing health insurance to almost 9 million lower-income children and serving on the front lines by providing high-quality primary and preventative care to more than 25 million Americans, respectively. Rather than continuing bipartisan negotiations and looking for a compromise, the GOP moved forward with offsets that undermine health coverage for people who rely on Medicaid and Medicare and dramatic cuts the Public Health Prevention Fund, which supports vaccination programs, infectious disease detection and prevention, and chronic disease prevention. The notion that we have to cut important programs and take insurance away from one group to give it to another is a false choice. I hope my colleagues in the Senate can work on a bipartisan compromise that will provide full and stable funding for these programs for five years in a way that does not reduce care or kick other people off their health insurance.” ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green released the following statement on the release of the Ryan-McConnell tax plan: “From what I’ve read so far, it’s clear that the president and the Republican majority want to cut tax deductions for middle-class families to pay for tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations. It’s alarming that the plan will eliminate the deduction for personal casualty losses, which will be a big blow for many hurricane Harvey victims whose homes were damaged after one of the largest disasters in Texas’ history. It’s even more alarming that taxes for the smallest earners will increase from 10 percent to 12 percent while the tax brackets for high earners stay the same. And for those who graduated college and are paying off their student loans debt, the tax plan will eliminate the student loan interest deduction. It’s estimated that the GOP plan will save the bottom 80 percent of earners between $50 and $450 in taxes per year, but that it saves each person in the top 1 percent of earners an average of $129,000 a year. For people at the very top, the tax cuts are enormous. It’s also not clear to me where the money to pay for these tax cuts will come from, and how we will continue to pay for infrastructure and social services when we add so much to the deficit with this plan. Overall, I am not confident my constituents will be better off with this plan. There’s more to learn about the details of this bill, but once we receive a score from the Congressional Budget Office we’ll know more about the impacts of this bill.” ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green, Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on President Trump’s announcement declaring the opioid epidemic as a public health emergency: “We are in the midst of the largest public health crisis our country has known. I am hopeful that President Trump’s declaration will lead us in the direction toward confronting the epidemic, but in order to seriously address the issue more funding is absolutely necessary. In 2015, more than 52,000 people died of drug overdoses in America — about two-thirds of which were linked to opioids. We need a comprehensive solution to the crisis that includes real dollars and targets the entire spectrum of addiction: prevention, crisis response for those who fall through the cracks, expanding access to treatment, and providing support for recovery. As a co-author of the 21st Century Cures Act, we provided $1 billion through 2018 to states to address the epidemic. Extending this money is a critical part of any continued federal effort to respond to the epidemic. The E&C Committee has taken some steps to address the crisis, but so much more is needed to combat it when families and communities across the country are being torn apart. I look forward to continuing the conversation and advancing new strategies to help families who are in desperate need of a comprehensive, long-term solution.” ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement in opposition to the Republican FY 2018 Budget Resolution: “The budget resolution that passed today is a clear indication that the Republican majority is more interested in giving tax cuts to the wealthy instead of investing in good-paying jobs, infrastructure, and education for middle-class and low-income families. The devastating budget would cut Medicare and Medicaid by a total of $5 trillion over 10 years, slash investments in education, including money for the Pell Grant and Head Start program, and cut money for housing assistance and SNAP – all to fast-track a tax plan that’ll increase our country’s deficit by $1.5 trillion. The Republican majority needs to be honest with the American people and admit that their budget and soon-to-be-released tax plan will raise taxes on hard-working families and favor millionaires, billionaires, and corporations.” ###
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green, Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement today after President Trump announced his decision to end cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments for working-class Americans: “President Trump promised to make healthcare more affordable and increase access for millions of Americans. Unfortunately, his decision to end subsidy payments that help almost 7 million people afford out-of-pocket costs and premiums will have an opposite effect. Ending the CSR payments is a spiteful act that will lead insurers to either leave the Affordable Care Act marketplace or increase Americans’ healthcare premiums by 20 percent or more. I am sure the President will continue to say that the ACA is imploding, but he’s the one who will be held accountable for destabilizing the marketplace. It’ll be up to Congress to take legislative action, and as the Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health I hope that my Republican colleagues will work with us to protect consumers and provide stability to the markets.” ###
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Representative Gene Green released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed $36.5 billion in disaster aid for hurricane victims and those fighting wildfires in western states: “The disaster package that passed is a second effort toward rebuilding communities, small businesses, schools and infrastructure in Texas and other states and territories that have been damaged by natural disasters. In Texas, it’s estimated that Harvey caused at least $150 billion in damage. Although the emergency aid will be shared among the areas hit, the Congressional Texas Delegation will continue to work with Governor Abbott and local officials to ensure that Texas receives the full amount of federal aid that is needed to get Texans back on their feet.” ###
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Representative Gene Green, Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the statement below on President Trump’s actions to sabotage the Affordable Care Act and healthcare markets: “If President Trump really wanted to lower premiums in the individual market and encourage participation and competition among insurers, he would fully fund the cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments and give insurers long-term certainty. The Executive Order that he proposed today could lead to many association health plans being exempted from core ACA requirements like the coverage of certain essential health benefits, exposing consumers to junk plans and likely destabilizing the markets. From slashing funding for the Open Enrollment outreach to threatening to stop CSR payments to insurers, this Executive Order is just the latest step President Trump has taken to harm Americans by sabotaging the Affordable Care Act. I urge the President and the Republican Majority to quit the sabotage and work with Democrats to improve the ACA though bipartisan solutions.” ###
10.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced its final decision to remove over 200,000 cubic yards of highly contaminated material from the San Jacinto River Waste Pits Superfund site in Harris County, Texas. “I thank the EPA for making the right decision to remove the toxic waste pits out of the San Jacinto River,” said Green. “Our communities in eastern Harris County have been fighting for over a decade to have the dioxin and other cancer-causing toxic waste fully removed and disposed of safely. We will be monitoring the remediation process closely and call on the EPA to move as quickly as feasibly possible before additional dioxin is exposed into the environment.” According to the EPA press release, “EPA’s cleanup plan includes installing engineering controls such as cofferdams before excavating almost 212,000 cubic yards of dioxin contaminated material for disposal. A small amount of material will stay on the site where controls will prevent access, eliminate off-site migration and monitor the natural recovery into the future.” Congressman Green urged the EPA to designate the San Jacinto River Waste Pits as a Superfund site in 2007. The site’s temporary protective cap has sustained damage on several occasions since its completion in 2011, most recently last month, when the cap was damaged during Hurricane Harvey, releasing highly toxic material into the San Jacinto River. Following a report of dioxin exposure at the San Jacinto River Waste Pits last month, Congressman Green sent a letter to the EPA requesting answers. Currently, the San Jacinto Waste Pits are partially submerged, and contained under a temporary cap near the western bank of the San Jacinto River, immediately north of the I-10 Bridge. The pits were created in the mid-60’s by Champion Paper and McGinnes Industrial Maintenance, who filled the ponds with waste paper sludge from a local paper mill until 1968, when they were abandoned. A copy of the EPA press release can be found HERE. ###
10.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), released the following statement today after Administrator Pruitt of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced his decision to rescind the Clean Power Plan: “The Clean Power Plan was a big step in the regulation of the power sector. Although I’ve had concerns with parts of the plan, wholescale repeal of the plan will hurt our environment and isolate us on the international stage, seceding American leadership abroad. While I believe in giving states the flexibility to meet emission standards their own way through State Implementation Plans, we must do more as a country to address greenhouse gases and global warming, especially after the devastating natural disasters that took place this summer. The actions today by EPA Administrator Pruitt do not move us in the right direction toward protecting the planet for our grandchildren and future generations.” ###
09.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Representative Gene Green (D-TX) sent a letter to Administrator Scott Pruitt of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) addressing the dioxin exposure that was found at the San Jacinto River Waste Pits Superfund site. Thursday evening the EPA Region 6 office sent a news release, which stated that the protective cap at the San Jacinto River Waste Pits was damaged. The EPA has ordered responsible parties to make immediate repairs and conduct supplemental sampling to ensure exposed waste material is isolated. “The health of the people and the communities impacted by Hurricane Harvey are my upmost concern,” said Green. “The San Jacinto River Waste Pits continue to be a threat to public health and the environment for communities near the site. The damage to the cap and exposure of dioxin, a cancer-causing pollutant, in the San Jacinto River is unacceptable. After this announcement, it is clearer than ever, that Administration Pruitt must follow through on the EPA’s recommendations last year and fully remove the waste pits.” Full text of the letter is available below: September 29, 2017 The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt: I am writing to follow up on my last letter in light of alarming new reports of dioxin exposure at the San Jacinto River Waste Pits Superfund site in Harris County, Texas. Despite assurances from your staff that the protective cover at the site was intact and that none of the toxic waste was exposed, it is now clear that the cover was damaged and waste escaped. I am particularly troubled that it has been one month since Harvey’s landfall and the public is just being informed of the release of dioxin and other cancer-causing agents into the San Jacinto River. I request your immediate response to the following questions: When did divers first inspect the cover, and when was the damage detected? Why did so much time pass before divers were deployed, and why did so much additional time pass before the damage was discovered? What monitoring is being done to assess the extent of migration of dioxin from the breach in the protective cover? Why did the previous protective measures taken at the site, including after damage was discovered to the protective cap in December 2015, fail? When will you and your staff meet with the affected communities to discuss these delays and the possible risks they now face? It is now clearer than ever that the toxic waste at this Superfund site must be fully removed, as the EPA proposed last year. It cannot safely be capped in place. Will you commit to require the full removal of the waste pits, and what is your timeline for doing so? Thank you for your time and assistance on this pressing matter. Should you have any questions, please contact me at (202) 225-1688. Sincerely, Gene Green Member of Congress ###
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Representative Gene Green (D-TX) released the statement below after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3823 – Disaster Tax Relief and Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2017 – to provide temporary tax relief for hurricane victims impacted by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria: “Our communities in Houston and Harris County are hurting and need immediate relief to rebuild and fully recover. Today’s bill is one part of Congress’s commitment to rebuilding our communities by allowing Harvey victims to access their retirement funds penalty-free, allowing victims to easily write off property losses caused by Harvey, providing a tax credit of up to $6,000 for employers who hire in a declared disaster area like Harris County, and incentivizing charitable giving by waiving deduction limits.” “Today’s bill is a second step toward providing relief for families impacted by hurricanes in Texas, Louisiana, Florida, and Puerto Rico. The Texas Congressional Delegation is working on additional emergency funding for next month that will help ensure that victims receive the aid they need to be made whole.” ###
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC —Today, Representative Gene Green (D-TX) sent a letter to Secretary Scott Pruitt of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) addressing human health and environmental concerns following Hurricane Harvey. Recent news stories reported that the EPA was alerted of toxic spills and provided aerial photos of dark-colored water surrounding the U.S. Oil Recovery Superfund Site in Pasadena, Texas. Despite the risks posed by the site, EPA staff did not immediately investigate the spills. Rep. Green’s letter reads, in part, “It is my fear that the reported toxic spills from U.S. Oil Recovery, a site that received industrial hazardous waste for decades, will harm communities and the environment downstream from the site. The apparent slow response and lack of transparency from your agency is already causing harm, by fostering fear and distrust.” Full text of the letter is available below: September 26, 2017 The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt: I am writing in regards to the growing public concerns over the impacts of Hurricane Harvey on human health and the environment on Harris County, Texas, and troubling reports of toxic spills originating from the U.S. Oil Recovery Superfund site in Pasadena, Texas. On September 19, the Associated Press (AP) reported that the PRP Group, the designated Potentially Responsible Party for the site, informed the EPA on August 29 that there was a toxic spill originating from U.S. Oil Recovery into Vince Bayou. The AP reported that the PRP Group made reports of separate toxic spills to the EPA on September 6 and September 7. The same report further states that the Harris County Pollution Control Service Department sent photos to the EPA on August 29 of three large concrete tanks that were flooded with water, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) provided aerial photos to the EPA on August 31 of “dark-colored water” surrounding U.S. Oil Recovery, two days after the initial reports. None of these reports provide information about how much toxic material leaked from the tanks. Despite the risks posed by this site, your staff did not immediately investigate the spills. On September 22, the Federal Emergency Management Agency issued a press release indicating that EPA has recovered 517 containers of unidentified, potentially hazardous material. On Sunday, EPA clarified this statement by indicating that those containers were not collected at or released from Superfund sites. While I appreciate your clarification, waiting more than two days to address this report worsened the fear and worry of the communities around these Superfund sites. It is my fear that the reported toxic spills from U.S. Oil Recovery, a site that received industrial hazardous waste for decades, will harm communities and the environment downstream from the site. The apparent slow response and lack of transparency from your agency is already causing harm, by fostering fear and distrust. In order to address the risks from these spills and the very real fears of communities I represent, I request the following: When was the EPA initially informed of the toxic spill at U.S. Oil Recovery? Who was informed initially, and when was notification provided to headquarters and regional staff? EPA requires spills of oil or hazardous substances in quantities that may be harmful to public health or the environment to be immediately reported to the 24 hour hotline when public waterways are threatened. How much time expired between the initial notification of the toxic spill and when the EPA began its assessment of the site? Do you believe this delay compromised EPA’s assessment of contamination from the site? What is the average response time for the EPA to begin assessing potential spills, and how long does it usually take to complete these assessments? If the response time for the U.S. Oil Recovery site was longer than average, explain why. Why did the EPA’s press released on September 5 exclude notification of the PRP Group’s toxic spill report at U.S. Oil Recovery? Why have the EPA’s updates to Congress excluded notification of the PRP Group’s toxic spill reports at U.S. Oil Recovery? What steps has the EPA taken to date to address the toxic spills at U.S. Oil Recovery? What future actions are planned? Has the EPA taken any enforcement actions towards the Potentially Responsible Party for the toxic spills at U.S. Oil Recovery? If not, at what point will the EPA take an enforcement action? Regarding the 517 containers of potentially hazardous material collected, I request a map of where the containers were required along with an inventory of their contents and the potential risks to surrounding communities. In addition, I am requesting that the EPA provide to my office, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, a copy of all soil and water lab tests, as well as a copy of all correspondence relating to the toxic spills at U.S. Oil Recovery. Please respond to this inquiry as soon as possible, but no later than October 10, 2017. Thank you for your time and assistance with this request. Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact me at (281) 999-5879, or have EPA staff contact Sergio Espinosa with our DC office at (202) 225-1688. Sincerely, Gene Green Member of Congress ###
09.15.2017	HOUSTON, TX - Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement in honor of Hispanic Heritage Month: "Every fall from September fifteenth to October fifteenth we observe the contributions of the Hispanic community in our country. From serving as first-responders and healthcare workers during Hurricane Harvey to protecting our freedoms by bravely serving in our Armed Forces, to starting millions of small businesses, our Hispanic communities have played an important role in shaping our nation. In Congress, we must do our part to truly honor these contributions by ensuring that we support policies that create open and inclusive environments where Hispanics have the opportunity to raise and provide for their families, have access to quality education and healthcare, and where barriers are lifted so that dreams can be realized. We must also continue the fight to fix our broken immigration system and protect the more than 800,000 bright, young DREAMers against President Trump’s immoral decision to end the DACA program. Whether you’re a citizen or immigrant, in a blended family or multi-generational family – your contributions are part of the fabric that makes this country whole. This Hispanic Heritage Month let us reflect upon the incredible role our Hispanic communities have held in the past and work toward a better future."
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Representative Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3354, an omnibus appropriations bill to cut funding for domestic federal agencies for the fiscal year 2018. “I voted against today’s short-sighted, partisan bill that will hinder job creation and economic growth. Congress needs to focus on supporting families in Houston and Harris County and throughout our country with reliable funding for schools, health care, and job training. Instead, the House Republican Majority passed a bill that makes significant cuts to apprenticeship programs, Pell grants, and would block the federal government from administering the Affordable Care Act after September 30th, leading to lost coverage and higher costs for millions of Americans." "Today’s bill is not in the best interest of the American people. I hope the Senate Republican Majority will do what’s right and join Senate Democrats in adopting a spending bill that grows the economy and creates jobs.” ###
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Representative Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed $7.9 billion in emergency funding for Hurricane Harvey relief efforts: “The emergency funding that passed today is the first step toward rebuilding our communities. Countless lives in Houston and Harris County have been put on hold – families who cannot return to their flooded homes, children whose schools were damaged, mothers and fathers who cannot go back to work. Hurricane Harvey was heartbreaking and traumatizing, but I am confident we will be stronger than before because we’ve already seen first-hand that we’re in this together.” “Houstonians and Texans are a proud and independent people. We take pride in our can-do attitude, as witnessed by our brave first responders and countless volunteers who rescued neighbors during the worst of the flooding. The rebuilding of our communities will take years, and will require passage of a substantial aid package from Congress, but I am confident we’ll get there. I will continue to work with the Texas Delegation, Democrats and Republicans, to ensure our schools, businesses, and communities receive the help they need to get back on their feet. We don’t know how much recovery will cost at this point, but we do know Harvey was the most damaging storm to hit the United States, so we need to treat it that way.” ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Representative Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement after President Trump announced that he will terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “I am disappointed in President Trump’s decision to terminate DACA after he pledged to treat these young people with ‘great heart.’ DACA recipients and DREAMERs have grown up in this country for most of their lives and consider themselves to be American. They know no home other than the United States.” “Since DACA was created in June 2012, recipients have been provided with a temporary reprieve from deportation and renewable two-year work permits. Over 124,000 young Texans are benefitting from DACA currently. Terminating this program will force DACA recipients out the workforce and would shrink our national gross domestic product by $433.4 billion over the next decade, according to the Center for American Progress.” “DACA recipients are our neighbors, classmates, and future doctors. The American public, religious leaders, and corporate executives have acknowledged the benefits of the program and support giving these young people a chance to work and contribute to their communities. I will continue to work alongside my colleagues to protect immigrant families in Texas and eventually work toward passing comprehensive immigration reform.” ###
08.28.2017	HOUSTON, TX — Today, Representative Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement after speaking with federal and state officials on the need for additional resources in response to Hurricane Harvey: “Many of our communities in Houston and Harris County have been badly hit by Harvey’s historic rains. Harvey’s wrath has brought out the best in our city, seen through the tireless work of our local first responders and countless Houstonians who are helping neighbors during our time of need. Earlier today, I was given assurances from federal and state officials that additional help is on its way, including more National Guard and urban rescue units, and FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers that will provide wrap-around recovery services in our community for victims once rescue operations have completed. Our local, state, and federal partners are committed to ensuring that our communities fully recover and are made whole.”
08.16.2017	HOUSTON, TX — Today, Representative Gene Green (D-TX) joined Harris County Precinct Two Commissioner Jack Morman, Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) and Port Terminal Railroad Association (PTRA) for a groundbreaking ceremony of the Federal Road Grade Separation Project. “The new overpass on Federal Road will bring an end to the 30 minute long rail crossing delays, benefitting local families, commuters, and nearby companies that have lost time and money as a result of these delays,” said Green. Every day there are freight trains that travel along Federal Road’s grade crossing with a duration lasting between ten to thirty minutes each. Longer waits at the rail road crossing are a safety hazard for the community. First responders such as, firefighters, police officers and EMS, are unable to reach their destinations quickly in emergency situations.” Federal Road is one of the primary roads in eastern Harris County, connecting Galena Park, Jacinto City and communities north of Buffalo Bayou to Pasadena and the Greater Houston Region. The project is expected to improve mobility of passenger traffic, road freight, and rail freight, including mobility on a Hurricane Evacuation route, and also improve the safety of the traveling public and train operations. “Once again Gene Green has delivered,” said Commissioner Morman. “His tireless efforts will also help free up county funds of over $5 million to rebuild Federal Road leading to the overpass which is a huge win for the East Side.” Construction of the overpass is anticipated to begin fall 2017 and to be finished summer 2019. According to TxDOT, the project will cost an estimated $16.38 million. ###
08.14.2017	HOUSTON, TX — Today, Representative Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement on the violence following protests by white supremacists in Charlottesville, Virginia: “I stand with the rest of America and condemn the actions of the white supremacist groups that were responsible for the violence this weekend. The actions that took place in Charlottesville do not reflect the values that America stands for and should not be tolerated. Racism, bigotry, and hate have no place in our country and we must continue to disavow the white supremacists that were responsible for the violence. My thoughts are with the families of Heather Heyer, the two Virginia State Troopers who tragically died defending justice, and the city of Charlottesville.” ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Representative Gene Green (D-TX) joined members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and introduced the American Hope Act, legislation that would provide an opportunity for almost 800,000 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients and undocumented youth to earn a pathway toward permanent legal residency and citizenship. “DACA recipients and DREAMERs are American in every way except on paper and deserve to have a chance to earn permanent residency and eventually citizenship if certain requirements are met,” said Green. “They have grown up in this country and consider themselves to be American, but lack the documents to fully engage in society even though their hard work and social actions unquestionably contribute to our communities and spur economic growth through their successes.” Since DACA was created in June 2012, recipients have been provided with a temporary reprieve from deportation and renewable two-year work permits. Currently, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton is leading a 10-state coalition, calling for President Trump to end the DACA program before Sept 5th or be sued. The end of DACA and stripping DREAMers of their work permits would shrink our national gross domestic product by $433.4 billion over the next decade, according to the Center for American Progress. “Texas is home to over 120,000 DACA beneficiaries and Texas’s 29th District is home to one of the largest immigrant populations in the United States,” said Green. “I am proud to work alongside Rep. Luis Gutiérrez and cosponsor the American Hope Act of 2017. This is a commonsense policy that will help thousands of DREAMers in our community and strengthen our economic future.” The American Hope Act would: Allow DACA beneficiaries and other DREAMers to apply for conditional permanent resident status (“CPR status”). Allow those granted CPR status to obtain full lawful permanent resident (LPR) status (i.e., a “green card”) after passing a background check. Time spent as a recipient of DACA would count toward the required 3 years with CPR status. Provide a 5-year path to U.S. citizenship. Time spent in CPR status would count toward the general 5-year period needed for permanent residents to become eligible for U.S. citizenship. Allow minors to apply for CPR status through a legal guardian or counsel. Improve college affordability for undocumented youth and other immigrants by repealing rules that limit their access to in-state tuition and college loans. Treat all DREAMers brought to the United States as young children the same, regardless of educational level, military service, or work history. ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after the Senate failed to pass an amendment repealing parts of the Affordable Care Act: “The Senate Republican Majority voted on a repeal measure three times this week, and last night they struck out,” said Green. “Democracy is about bipartisanship and listening to what’s in the best interest of the people we serve. The Republican Majority has worked in secrecy since the first day they started crafting legislation to repeal the ACA, and the failed attempts this week are a result of their path toward repeal.” “There are certainly ways the current law can be improved, like strengthening the risk pool, promoting competition among insurers, and requiring states to expand their Medicaid program so that almost 50,000 individuals in our district and millions of lower-income Americans across the country could get insurance. I look forward to working with my Republican colleagues to build on the ACA and improve the law.” ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement after the House Energy & Commerce Committee voted unanimously to advance major drinking water legislation on Thursday afternoon: “All Americans, regardless of income or neighborhood, deserve access to safe, clean drinking water. The Drinking Water System Improvement Act is an important step forward to ensuring this promise.” “I am proud to support this legislation that will increase federal assistance for states and local communities to improve their drinking water infrastructure and provide targeted improvements that will benefit lower-income communities like those in our district in Houston and Harris County. Key improvements include federal funds to replace lead service lines in schools, a minimum set aside for disadvantaged communities, and giving water systems greater flexibility to restructure or consolidate.” “I look forward to supporting this bill when it comes before the full House of Representatives and eventually reaching the President’s desk.” ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Congressman Green (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health praised the FDA’s launch of its Pre-Cert for Software Pilot Program. The program builds on legislation that Rep. Green and Rep. Blackburn (R-TN) introduced in the 114th Congress – The SOFTWARE Act – which eventually became law as part of the 21st Century Cures Act in late 2016. The FDA program will modify the regulatory process for certain medical devices, allowing firms making digital health products such as apps, to get their technology into the hands of patients and consumers so they can reap the benefits of the latest innovations and take an active role in their own health care. “As new technologies emerge, it’s important that federal regulatory agencies like the FDA are properly equipped to provide a common sense level of oversight that is appropriate for the characteristics of the product,” said Green. “This pilot program builds on the progress made by the FDA in their recently released guidance documents and gives certainty to innovators so we can unleash the next generation of health information technology.” “Americans today lean on apps for everything from scheduling to grocery shopping to entertainment,” said Blackburn. “With the speed at which today’s technology changes and updates, the FDA’s traditional, heavy-handed regulatory framework simply isn’t feasible for things such as apps, which can provide a significant benefit to consumers and patients so long as they have access to them before its obsolete.” ###
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation introduced by Congressmen Green (D-TX) and Mullin (R-OK). H.R. 2883, the Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act, would encourage and promote the construction of energy infrastructure across border lines with our North American neighbors. The Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act would establish transparent, reliable procedures to provide regulatory certainty and enable the United States to further expand the mutually beneficial energy relationship with Canada and Mexico. By streamlining the construction and operation of international border-crossing facilities used for the import and export of oil, natural gas, and electricity, the United States can more efficiently continue the trade of energy products with neighboring countries. “The United States is in a great position to lead a unified energy sector with its neighbors and allies that would benefit all three nations,” said Green. “As energy production in the United States continues to grow, it is essential that we have the infrastructure necessary to support the industry. These projects should undergo an effective and responsible process for approval and not be subject to political calculations or obstructions. Our bipartisan legislation will strengthen our alliance and energy independence for the future.” The United States, Canada, and Mexico have always enjoyed the benefits of a firmly united and highly productive North American oil, gas, and electricity trade market. According to the Congressional Research Service (CRS), energy trade among the three nations was valued at over $140 billion in 2015. A copy of the text can be found HERE. ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), a bipartisan defense policy bill that authorizes $696 billion in defense spending in fiscal year 2018. Included in the authorization is a bill sponsored by Reps. Green (D-TX) and Wittman (R-VA), H.R. 2286, the Domestic Maritime Centers of Excellence Act. H.R. 2286 was introduced in May and was successfully added as an amendment to the NDAA during the committee markup. It will authorize the U.S. Maritime Administration to designate and provide assistance to certain community colleges and workforce training centers as “centers of excellence” that provide valuable skills in the maritime sector. The provision, Section 3507 will advance the capabilities of two-year community and technical colleges to assist the federal government and industry in securing the talent pipeline for domestic maritime industry jobs. “In our district, we have a surplus of maritime jobs and not enough people with the skills and training to fill them,” said Green. “The industry is continuing to invest and grow along the Port of Houston, and we want to make sure that our constituents have the opportunity to take these high skilled jobs. This bipartisan legislation will help bridge the gap. It’s good for our local community, it’s good for our businesses, and it’s good for the American economy.” Other provisions in the 2018 NDAA include: A much deserved 2.4 percent pay increase and extending special pay and bonuses for service members. Support for military families by prohibiting the proposed reduction in inpatient care for military medical treatment facilities located outside the United States. Acknowledging climate change is a direct threat to U.S. national security interests and requires a report on vulnerabilities to military installations and commands. A copy of the text can be found HERE. ###
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed by voice vote H.R. 2430, the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017. As the Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, Congressman Green has worked on a bipartisan basis to pass a package of user fee agreements that will reauthorize key FDA capabilities to review and evaluate medical devices, brand and generic drugs, and biosimilar products. “It is critical that these programs be reauthorized in a timely manner. Failure to do so would derail clinical trials, grind research to a halt, and put the new therapy pipeline in jeopardy. Much progress has been made since the first user fee agreement was made in 1992, and I’m pleased we are advancing these reauthorizations,” said Green. Although the current five-year FDA user fee agreements do not expire until September 30, 2017, the FDA would be forced to send layoff notices to more than 5,000 employees if the agreements are not authorized before the August work period. “FDA approval is the global gold standard, and reauthorizing the user fee programs will ensure the agency has the resources – particularly capable, qualified staffers – to fulfill its mission,” said Green. H.R. 2430 includes additional provisions beyond the underlying agreements that are worthy of support. It will promote generic drug development and competition, establish a category of over-the-counter hearing aid, crack down on counterfeit drugs, and foster innovation in medical imaging. A copy of the legislation can be read HERE. ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) issued the following statement after voting against the anti-immigrant legislation, H.R. 3003 – No Sanctuary for Criminals Act: “The legislation passed by the Republican Majority today is another attack against immigrant communities and communities of color in my state and throughout the country. This misguided legislation would strip critical federal funding for local police agencies, such as the COPS grants, that do not comply with federal immigration detainers. Doing so will only undermine public safety in our communities in Houston and Harris County.” “Our local law enforcement officers for Houston PD and Harris County Sheriffs are responsible for protecting the people of our great city and upholding our local laws. They are not, nor should they become, de facto federal immigration agents. The U.S. Constitution is clear that immigration enforcement is the responsibility of the federal government, and not the states or local governments.” “Requiring local police officers to enforce federal immigration law will not only violate our 200-year-old system of federalism but will tear apart the trust our local police and sheriffs have built with our communities. Our police and sheriffs should protect our homes and families, not serve as immigration agents.” ###
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) issued the following statement after Senate Republicans announced they will postpone votes on Trumpcare until after July 4th recess: “It has been irresponsible for Republicans in the House and Senate to work behind closed doors without public input on a bill that will affect one-sixth of the economy. Republicans thought they could jam this mean Trumpcare bill without hearing from their constituents, but today’s news is a result of the American people calling their Representatives and Senators and voicing their frustrations.” “We must continue to work together and fight back against a bill will kick millions of Americans off their coverage, cut protections for people with pre-existing conditions, and, and cause health care costs to skyrocket for working Americans.” “When the Affordable Care Act passed, it was debated in dozens Senate and House committees and followed regular order. If Republicans want to fix healthcare, then they need to stop what they’re doing and work with Democrats to improve the Affordable Care Act.” ###
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office released its score on the impacts of the Senate Trumpcare bill: “The CBO score that was released today further confirms that the actions taken by the Senate Republicans are just as mean as the House Republicans. Protections for millions of Americans with pre-existing conditions will be undermined, hard-working families will be expected to pay more for less coverage, and $772 billion will be cut from Medicaid, a safety net for millions of seniors in nursing homes, pregnant women, children, and people with disabilities.” “The Senate Republicans can change the name of the bill, but as we now know it’s not fundamentally different. I hope this score raises a red flag for Republicans in both the House and Senate and I urge that they reconsider trying to jam their Trumpcare bill through the Senate for a vote. The American people deserve better.” ###
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement after Senate Republicans released their draft of Trumpcare earlier today: “The text that was released is a mean-spirited bill that rips insurance away from millions of Americans, devastates the Medicaid program, cuts key protections for patients with pre-existing conditions, and allows insurers to charge older people five times more than others.” “It’s appalling that Senate Republicans spent weeks behind closed doors to release a bill that is not meaningfully different than the version that Republicans rammed through the House last month. This process has been carried out entirely behind closed doors out of the public eye. The Senate and House Republican Majority have failed to be transparent with their constituents and the American people that this egregious bill affects.” “The American people deserve better and I hope that my colleagues will drop this morally bankrupt pursuit to fulfill an empty campaign slogan and work with us to strengthen the Affordable Care Act.” ###
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON — Yesterday, Representative Gene Green (D-TX) and Democratic members of the Texas Delegation submitted a letter to the Texas Health and Human Services Commission opposing the state’s latest attempt to block lower-income patients from accessing care at qualified family planning providers like Planned Parenthood. If the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) approves the waiver, it will mark an unprecedented departure from a longstanding federal policy that safeguards Medicaid enrollees’ free choice of provider for family planning services and confidentiality protections. “Public family planning programs are designed to increase access to care, reduce unintended pregnancy, and improve a woman’s ability to have a healthy pregnancy. Texas paints a grim picture of what health care access will look like across the country if the Administration bends the rules to allow this latest backdoor attempt to cut off women’s access to care they deserve,” said Rep. Green. Since the inception of the Healthy Texas Women Program, women’s health and well-being in Texas have suffered. In comparison to its previous Medicaid family planning waiver, 30,000 fewer women have received care, 35 percent fewer women have received the most effective methods of birth control, and 27 percent more births have occurred among women who previously had injectable contraception. It is critical that CMS not approve Texas’ 1115 family planning waiver and make clear that states cannot use federal funds to implement programs that harm women’s access to care. A copy of the letter can be read HERE. ###
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON — Congressman Markwayne Mullin (R-OK) and Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) introduced H.R. 2883, the Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act, to encourage and promote the construction of energy infrastructure across border lines with our North American neighbors. The Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act would establish transparent, reliable procedures to provide regulatory certainty and enable the United States to further expand the mutually beneficial energy relationship with Canada and Mexico. By streamlining the construction and operation of international border-crossing facilities used for the import and export of oil, natural gas, and electricity, the United States can more efficiently continue the trade of energy products with neighboring countries. “Energy production in the United States plays a vital role in our country’s job creation and economic growth,” Mullin said. “The Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act simplifies the construction and operation of energy facilities that cross international borders. It restructures the process so that cross-border pipelines can deliver lower costs to consumers and create additional jobs in the energy field, rather than these energy projects being politicized or hung up in regulatory uncertainty.” “The United States is in a great position to lead a unified energy sector with its neighbors and allies that would benefit all three nations,” Green said. “As energy production in the United States continues to grow, it is essential that we have the infrastructure necessary to support the industry. These projects should undergo an effective and responsible process for approval and not be subject to political calculations or obstructions. Our bipartisan legislation will strengthen our alliance and energy independence for the future.” The United States, Canada, and Mexico have always enjoyed the benefits of a firmly united and highly productive North American oil, gas, and electricity trade market. According to the Congressional Research Service (CRS), energy trade among the three nations was valued at over $140 billion in 2015. ###
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House Energy & Commerce Committee held a markup session to examine a package of user fee agreements to reauthorize key FDA capabilities to review and evaluate medical devices, brand and generic drugs, and biosimilar products. During the markup, the committee also passed 11 energy infrastructure bills, and three health bills that will address congenital heart diseases, sickle cell disease research, and controlled substances. “It is critical that these programs be reauthorized in a timely manner. Failure to do so would derail clinical trials, grind research to a halt, and put the new therapy pipeline in jeopardy. We have had hearings on the underlining agreements and the feedback was overwhelming positive. Much progress has been made since the first user fee agreement was made in 1992 and I’m pleased we are advancing these reauthorizations,” said Green. Health legislation that passed the committee and will be sent to the House floor includes: H.R. 2430, FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 FDARA is a package of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fee agreements regarding prescription drugs, medical devices, generic drugs, and biosimilars. H.R. 1222, Congenital Heart Future Reauthorization Act of 2017 H.R. 1222 builds on existing efforts by requiring CDC to enhance and expand its research, surveillance infrastructure, and public outreach and education programs relating to congenital heart disease. H.R. 2410, Sickle Cell Disease Research, Surveillance, Prevention and Treatment Act of 2017 The bill would reauthorize the Sickle Cell Disease Treatment Demonstration Program and allow up to 25 eligible entities to receive grants under the program. H.R. 2410 also would allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct or support research to help increase understanding of sickle cell disease H.R. 1492, The Medical Controlled Substances Transportation Act of 2017 This legislation would allow a physician registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to transport controlled substances to another practice for the purpose of administering the substances. Copies of the legislation can be viewed HERE. ###
06.01.2017	HOUSTON, TX – Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement after President Trump announced that his administration will withdraw the United States from the 2015 landmark Paris Climate Accord: “The fight against climate change is an international priority supported by 195 countries,” said Green. “Until today, the United States has been leading the international community to reduce carbon emissions and protecting our planet for future generations. Thanks to innovation, investment, and smart policies, our nation’s carbon emissions have already declined by 11 percent since 2005. President Trump’s announcement to withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, regretfully, will hand international leadership on climate change to China and other nations who do not share our priorities." “While some Members of Congress continue to deny the progression of human-induced climate change, the majority of Congress does not. Regardless of President Trump’s decision, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure we address climate change and work toward the goals outlined in the Paris Agreement.” ###
05.26.2017	HOUSTON, TX – On Thursday, Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) announced Jessy Ortega, a student at J. Frank Dobie High School, as the winner of this year’s annual Congressional Art Competition, representing the 29th Congressional District of Texas. Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors the nationwide visual art competition to recognize and encourage promising artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Since the competition began in 1982, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated. “Our office is proud to participate in this tradition, which brings together the students, teachers and parents of Texas’s 29th District,” said Green. “Every year I am more impressed with the submissions. We have some talented young people in our district and selecting a winner is never easy.” Ortega will travel to Washington, DC in June to attend the national ceremony that recognizes the first place winners from across the country. Each young artist will be joined by their Member of Congress and their artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol through May 2018. Other winners include: 2nd Place – Brando Hinojosa, Sam Rayburn High School 3rd Place – Emilio Recio, Sam Rayburn High School Honorable Mention – Mia Flores, Sam Rayburn High School Honorable Mention – Bryan Corona, Pasadena High School ###
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative Gene Green (TX-29), Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, joined by Representative Cedric Richmond (LA-02), introduced the Incentivizing Medicaid Expansion Act. Contrary to efforts by Republican-controlled Congress to repeal Medicaid expansion, this language will double-down on the federal commitment to this population by giving all states three years of full federal funding when they expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “Expanding Medicaid is as much of a good deal for states as it is for patients. In our District alone, over 46,000 residents would gain coverage if Texas expanded Medicaid,” said Green. “Under the ACA, expansion comes at a minimal cost to the states with the federal government financing 100 percent of expansion costs for the first three years, and after that, no less than 90 percent on a permanent basis. This bill would allow non-expansion states who expand now or in the future to receive 100 percent funding for three years from the date of expansion, as was envisioned under the ACA.” In choosing not to expand Medicaid, Texas has missed out on $9.22 billion in federal funds. Medicaid expansion would have increased gross state product and led to an increase of 100,000 jobs per year. At the same time, hospitals are baring billions in annual cost for treating uninsured patients. In turn, those uncompensated costs are being covered by taxes and insurance premiums paid by the state's businesses and residents, who are also footing the bill for expanding Medicaid in states that agreed to accept federal funds to offer coverage to nearly all low-income adults. “The results are in and they prove that ACA is working,” said Richmond. “Medicaid expansion has provided more than 428,000 previously uninsured people in Louisiana with the peace of mind of quality health care. We should build on this progress rather than tear it down, and provide states that expanded late with the full federal support intended when the law was written. Our goal should always be to cover more people, not less.” Read the bill text HERE ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) released the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office, an independent, nonpartisan office, released an updated score on the budgetary impacts of the Republican bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “The latest numbers released by the CBO doesn’t change the devastating effect this bill will have on millions of Americans across the country,” said Green. “It only reinforces what we already knew about the House Republicans’ bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act: millions will lose coverage, weaker protections and higher costs.” “I have worked tirelessly to increase health care coverage for my constituents and the American people. The revised bill will only make it more difficult for sicker people to receive affordable care, including older people with lower income and those with preexisting conditions.” “As I’ve said before, we should have never had a final vote without an updated CBO score. Too many changes were made to the original bill behind closed-doors and without any input from stakeholders or the American public. Now we are left with a version of a bill that will leave millions paying more for less.” ###
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Gene Green released the following statement on President Trump’s 2018 budget request: “President Trump’s 2018 budget proposal is dead on arrival in Congress,” said Green. “This proposal would make savage cuts to our nation’s safety net that will disrupt the well-being of families in Harris County living paycheck to paycheck.” “We need a president who will advocate for the interest of the American people, not the millionaires and corporations that will receive massive tax breaks. Although the President didn’t violate yet another campaign promise by gutting Social Security or Medicare, his cuts to the NIH, FDA and CDC and Medicaid threaten the very fabric of our health care system – from cancer drug clinical trials to vaccines for children to care for seniors in nursing homes.” “There is bipartisan, bicameral support for health agencies such as the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and National Institutes of Health. Cuts to these agencies will further undermine the great progress made under the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act that Congress passed last year.” “I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to pass a budget that will protect these critical programs and invest in the American people.” ###
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green released the following statement after the appointment of a special counsel in the Russia investigation: “The appointment of Robert Mueller as special counsel of the Russian government’s efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election is a step in the right direction,” said Green. "As a former F.B.I. director, Mr. Mueller is a well-respected public servant and will help lead the charge of an important investigation. The American people are concerned and want answers about President Trump and his ties to Russia." ###
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green joined the Democratic Caucus and filed a discharge petition to force a vote on H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act. Following recent revelations from the White House and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Congressman Green believes it’s time to vote on this bipartisan legislation that will establish an outside, independent commission to investigate President Trump’s ties to Russia and possible collusion to interfere in the 2016 presidential election. “Over the last week we have learned more about President Trump’s disregard for our democratic institutions,” said Green. “Every Member of Congress has taken the same oath that calls for bearing true faith and allegiance to defending the Constitution of the United States against all enemies. The American people are concerned and want answers about President Trump and his ties to Russia. As lawmakers, we have an obligation to protect our homeland and the democratic government we so proudly serve. House Republican leadership should have a sense of urgency and help us follow the facts. No person is above the law, especially the President of the United States.” The discharge petition filed by House Democrats and joined by Rep. Green will require the House of Representatives to vote on H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act, after a majority of House Members sign the petition. To date, Speaker Ryan has refused to schedule a vote on this bipartisan legislation, and House Republicans have voted seven times to block its consideration in the House. Last July, the FBI opened an investigation into possible collusion between Trump campaign officials and the Russian government. President Trump admitted on national television last week that he fired then-FBI Director James Comey due to the ongoing investigation of Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. On Monday, it was made public that President Trump compromised highly classified intelligence to Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, jeopardizing the security of the American people – just one day after he fired Director Comey. ###
05.10.2017	HOUSTON, TX – Congressman Green (TX-29) released the following statement after President Trump terminated and removed FBI Director James Comey from office: “The timing of Director Comey’s termination is questionable and I am deeply concerned with President Trump’s motive for firing Mr. Comey,” said Green. “Throughout the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 elections and possible coordination with the Trump campaign, Mr. Comey demonstrated the professionalism that his position demanded. The American people deserve an answer from the President for his justification of Mr. Comey’s termination. Moving forward I think it is now more important than ever to appoint a special prosecutor to oversee the ongoing investigation as I and many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle have called for." ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Green released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “TrumpCare is nothing more than broken promises and mean-spirited policy,” said Green. “It will mean higher health costs, more than 24 million hard-working Americans losing health coverage, key protections gutted, older Americans hung out to dry, the end of Medicaid as we know it, and cuts to Medicare.” “In the last few weeks, Republicans have found more than one way to make health care more costly and more punishing to American families. High risk pools don’t protect Americans with pre-existing conditions nor do they guarantee coverage. Segregating those with pre-existing conditions into high risk pools would return patients to the days when individuals with serious mental illness, cancer or other medical conditions could be denied coverage due to their health status.” “Letting the states have the ability to waive Essential Health Benefits - the 10 basic medical care categories plans have to cover, like emergency care, mental health and addiction treatment, and lab tests - is just crazy. Without some minimum requirements, insurance companies can offer plans that are “insurance” in name only and anyone who is actually sick and needs care will be left out in the cold.” “There is an obvious, irresponsible reason why this vote was rammed through without an updated score from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO): Republicans don’t want the American people learning the real-world consequences and the devastation it will mean for American families.” Congressman Green is a member of the U.S. House Energy & Commerce Committee and serves as the Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee. ###
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Green released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a 1$ trillion package that will fund the government for the remainder of the 2017 fiscal year: “After passing a one-week stopgap bill last week, I’m happy my colleagues worked together and reached a compromise that will avert a government shutdown. This agreement increases funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by $2 billion, boost year-round Pell Grants for college students in need, and secures dollars for fighting the opioid epidemic,” said Green. “Houston is the largest recipient in Texas of NIH funding and our health care system employs more than 560,000 people. The budget cuts proposed by the Trump Administration to NIH would have significantly impacted our hospitals and research institutions and stalled the progress that we’ve made in the last 10 years. Our investment in basic and translational research has led to advances that have profoundly improved the health and quality of life of millions of Americans, which is why we increased funding for NIH as part of our 21st Century Cures Act that was signed into law last session.” “I’m also pleased the agreement includes nearly $30 million for Port of Houston dredging operations and $13 million for construction projects for the Buffalo Bayou. Our congressional delegation has worked hard to ensure the Port of Houston and the Bayou system gets its fair share of federal dollars and continues to support local communities in East Harris County.” “Funding the government requires collaboration and compromise and the American people expect Congress to work together to avoid another 2013 shutdown. President Trump threatening a government shutdown is reckless and I hope he will demonstrate presidential governing when Congress considers the FY2018 budget in the coming months." ###
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Representatives Gene Green (D-TX) and Rob Wittman (R-VA) introduced legislation intended to advance the capabilities of two-year community and technical colleges to assist the federal government and industry in securing the talent pipeline for domestic maritime industry jobs. “In our district, we have a surplus of maritime jobs and not enough people with the skills and training to fill them,” said Rep. Green. “The industry is continuing to invest and grow along the Port of Houston, and we want to make sure that our constituents have the opportunity to take these high skilled jobs. This bipartisan legislation will help bridge the gap. It’s good for our local community, it’s good for our businesses, and it’s good for the American economy.” "A well-trained, skilled maritime workforce is critical for our nation's economy and national security," said Rep. Wittman. "Advancing the capabilities of community and technical colleges - such as Rappahannock and Tidewater Community College - to assist the federal government and industry in securing the talent pipeline for the domestic maritime industry will mean more shipbuilders and repairmen to sustain and expand trade and grow our Navy's Fleet. Ship yards in Virginia and around the country will benefit from the injection of workers our new centers of excellence will provide so that we remain a prosperous maritime nation." “There are over 56,000 direct maritime related jobs at the Port of Houston alone,” said Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX). “As the workforce grows, students must be ready to enter the maritime industry with job ready skills. This legislation simply gives local community and technical colleges the resources to effectively prepare their students. As Co-Chairman of the PORTS Caucus, I recognize that this legislation takes an important step forward in ensuring future workforce growth for the Port of Houston and ports across the nation.” “I am pleased to introduce the Domestic Maritime Centers of Excellence Act with my colleagues to bolster our maritime industry, raise up our community and technical colleges, and empower students to find well-paying jobs in this critical sector of the American economy,” said Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA). “Strengthening this workforce is essential to maintaining our nation’s goods movement system and vital to our national defense.” “We applaud Congressman Green and Congressman Wittman for filing this important legislation," said Janiece Longoria, Chairman of Port of Houston Authority. "Commerce is growing at the Port of Houston, which grows the jobs and economic benefits it provides to the national economy. It is imperative that our maritime workforce also grow, be trained, and have the skills to meet the needs of the marketplace.” “The Port of Virginia is handling record cargo volumes, and to meet the growth the port is investing in its terminals to increase the annual capacity by 1 million container units by 2020,” said Virginia Port Authority CEO and Executive Director John Reinhart. “The port and its related industry will need a skilled, educated and expanding workforce to complement this growth. This legislation is important because it would make additional resources available to programs like the Southeast Maritime and Transportation Center at Tidewater Community College to meet the demands of Virginia’s rapidly expanding maritime industry.” "The recruitment and development of shipyard workers is critical to the future of the U.S. shipbuilding and repair industry," said Matthew Paxton, President of the Shipbuilders Council of America (SCA). "Empowering MARAD to recruit, train and develop the next generation of workers will provide a stable workforce and ensure there is sufficient talent to build our commercial and military ships for decades to come." A copy of the text can be found HERE. ###
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green released the following statement on the House Republicans’ new amendment to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “Once again, House Republicans have confirmed that their approach to fixing health care requires gutting key protecting for people with pre-existing conditions, shortening the life of the Medicare Trust Fund, increasing costs and offering fewer protections,” said Green. “If signed into law, this TrumpCare bill will no longer require states to offer care for people with mental health or substance abuse disorders and will allow insurers to charge older Americans five times more than younger people. The devastating effect this amendment will have on working families across the country will make it more difficult to afford high-quality health insurance and will lead to more Americans without the care they deserve. “I’m concerned with the legitimacy of the amendment. If Republicans thought their TrumpCare bill was so great why would they exempt members of Congress and their staff from its effects? The text in the amendment is even more harmful to Americans than the last bill that failed a few weeks ago and I don’t think we should have a vote on the bill until we receive an updated CBO score.” ###
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative Green released the following statement as Congress prepares to vote on a spending bill this week to fund the government and avert a government shutdown Friday at midnight: “We are days away from yet another avoidable government shutdown and once again funding for federal programs might be delayed because of partisan politics,” said Green. President Trump and my Republican colleagues must choose to serve the people or the party.” “Sabotaging the Affordable Care Act by withholding subsidies that allow working families to purchase affordable, high-quality health insurance and threatening to shut down the government if a down payment for President Trump’s border wall is not included is simply irresponsible. I will continue to oppose any funding for the border wall in Congress, which is opposed by a majority of Texans for good reason – it will harm our economy, our border communities, and become a permanent stain on our state’s close ties with Mexico. We already have barriers and protection on our border." “Americans expect Congress to work together and find bipartisan solutions that address real challenges, like discovering cures for the most challenging diseases or rebuilding our aging infrastructure, and not wasting taxpayer’s money on an unnecessary wall. I urge both sides to put politics aside and work together to get the job done.” The last government shutdown in October 2013, lasted 16 days, and led to the furlough of hundreds of thousands of federal workers, closed national parks, shuttered childcare for military families, froze government contracts for large and small businesses, as well as adding billions of dollars to the federal deficit. ###
04.21.2017	HOUSTON, TX — Today, Congressman Green joined the Communications Workers of America (CWA) in front of the Houston AT&T Call Center to call on Congress to stand up against the offshoring of call center jobs and to support the U.S. Call Center Worker and Consumer Protection Act (H.R. 1300) introduced by Representatives Gene Green (D-TX) and David McKinley (R-WV) last month. “The call center industry is a major source for jobs in America today, estimated at around 4 million,” said Green. It is important that American workers continue to have access to good middle class jobs that will provide a livable wage and proper benefits. Unfortunately, we have seen call center jobs moved overseas to India, the Philippines, and other countries. This bipartisan legislation will protect call center workers in Texas and throughout the country, and American consumers from unfair treatment.” H.R. 1300 would deter companies from shipping American jobs overseas and incentivize them to locate in the U.S. by creating a public list of ‘bad actors’ consisting of those that shipped all or most of their service work overseas. Being on the list would make these actors ineligible for federal grants or guaranteed loans, would require overseas call centers to disclose their locations to customers, and would require them to comply with U.S. consumers’ request to be transferred to a service agent physically located in the U.S. "I feel very proud that Gene green is supporting our mission, our ideas and our goals,” said Suleyma Osorio, AT&T Retention Service Representative. “We want to keep jobs in America so we can ultimately continue to give the best customer service. I was born and raised in Houston Texas and I support Congressman Gene green and keeping jobs in America.” A copy of the legislation is available HERE. ###
04.07.2017	HOUSTON, TX — Congressman Green released the following statement after U.S. forces conducted a tomahawk missile strike targeting a Syrian government airfield. “Last night’s airstrike in Syria was a proportional response to the chemical weapons attack carried out by President Bashar al-Assad this week,” Green said. “President Trump publicly stated that “no child of God should suffer such horror” after he saw photos of babies who were harmed by the chemical attack, yet the Muslim ban that he ordered fundamentally discriminates against the same people who have been victims of Assad’s violence .” “If we as a country intend on escalating U.S. military involvement in Syria, Congress must work together to pass an Authorization for Use of Military Force and put a comprehensive strategy in place with clear objectives before we send our brave men and women in uniform in harm’s way.” ###
04.06.2017	U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph, alongside U.S. Rep. Gene Green, D-Texas, introduced H.R. 1920, a bill that would ensure cancer patients across the country continue to have access to life-saving treatments and care. H.R. 1920 addresses a flawed Medicare reimbursement formula that results in some providers not being adequately paid for their services. “Here in Michigan we have 19 dedicated cancer centers including the Lakeland HealthCare Marie Yeager Cancer Center in St. Joseph,” said Upton. “Our common-sense, bipartisan legislative fix corrects the Medicare reimbursement formula that currently threatens the distribution of cancer care drugs across the country. This will ensure patients continue to receive the highest quality cancer care available. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle here in the House and in the Senate to move this bill forward.” “The prompt pay discount is affecting the delivery of treatment to our seniors and having an adverse impact on physicians and their patients in communities across the country,” said Green. “This needed fix of the Medicare reimbursement formula will help maintain the type of robust provider network we need to ensure quality healthcare options for Medicare beneficiaries in the years to come.” Community-based cancer centers provide treatment to more than 80 percent of the nation’s new cancer patients. Ensuring more appropriate payment amounts for cancer drugs under Medicare Part B would help protect these cancer centers. So-called “prompt pay” discounts are contractually provided terms from pharmaceutical manufacturers to drug distributors. Prompt pay discounts compensate distributors for the costs of shipping, handling, and distributing drugs to providers. Under current law, the inclusion of these discounts in Medicare’s payment formula artificially lowers reimbursement rates for providers, which harms patient access to high-quality care. H.R. 1920 would fix the Medicare reimbursement formula by removing customary prompt pay discounts from the calculation to ensure that providers receive fair reimbursement. Other original co-sponsors of H.R. 1920 include Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colorado, Rep. John Shimkus, R-Illinois, and Rep. Pat Tiberi, R-Ohio. These bipartisan efforts enjoy the support of patient groups such as the Association of Community Cancer Centers, the National Patient Advocate Foundation, the American Society of Clinical Oncology, and the Community Oncology Alliance.
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON — Today, Congressman Green (TX-29) received the 2017 American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists’ (AACE) Eugene T. Davidson, MD, Public Service Award. The Public Service Award is presented to a health professional, organization, or individual layperson for outstanding contributions to advancing the mission of AACE in providing quality health care for patients with endocrine diseases and for the betterment of public health. “I am grateful to be recognized by AACE for the long-standing work I’ve fought for in Congress,” said Green. “Diabetes and other endocrine and metabolic disorders affect too many Americans and Texans in my district.” “My constituents have an incredibly high rate of diabetes and other chronic conditions, well above the national averages. In order to improve our overall health and bend the long-term cost curve, we need endocrinologists and other medical professional to be able to perform their great work on behalf of patients. I look forward to continuing to work with AACE, and the full range of health care providers, on legislation to improve care and promote wellness and prevention,” said Green. In this 115th Congress, Congressman Green is the Ranking Member for the Subcommittee on Health. In addition, Green is a member of the Congressional Diabetes Caucus and continues to support initiatives to improve care for patients with diabetes, including the National Clinical Care Commission Act, which he co-sponsored. Additionally, Congressman Green is the author of the legislation attached to the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003, which required Medicare to cover screening for Medicare beneficiaries at risk for diabetes. ###
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON — Congressman Gene Green released the following statement after House Speaker Paul Ryan pulled the American Health Care Act from the House floor Friday evening: “Today is a victory for the American people and all 24 million Americans who would have lost their health care if TrumpCare was signed into law,” said Green. "Republicans tried to repeal ObamaCare for several years, and after today’s decision by Speaker Ryan to pull their disastrous bill, it’s obvious they never had a plan to follow through on President Trump’s campaign promise.” “The bill was an assault on working families from the very beginning. It would have destroyed the Medicaid program as we know it, would have increased deductibles and out-of-pocket costs, and would have shortened the life of the Medicare Trust Fund. I was disappointed the Republicans never followed regular order or held public hearings, but at least the American people and my constituents can sleep tonight knowing they will be able to visit their doctor and receive the quality, affordable health care they deserve.” “I’ve said before that the ACA is not perfect and there are areas for improvement. As the Ranking Member of the Energy & Commerce Health Subcommittee, I look forward to working with my colleagues on bipartisan solutions to improve the ACA.” ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON — Congressman Gene Green released the following statement on President Trump’s 2018 budget request: “The budget blueprint that President Trump revealed today will negatively impact the lives of many hard-working families in Houston and Harris County and across the country,” said Green. “I find it hard to believe that his ‘America First’ budget puts Americans first when medical researchers will lack funds essential to discovering lifesaving cures, first-generation and low-income college students will struggle paying for college, and nutrition and housing assistance will be cut.” “One of my biggest concerns is the $6 billion cut to the National Institutes of Health. President Trump pledged to cure diseases when he was on the campaign trail, but his actions today prove otherwise.” “Patients in Houston and throughout the country will be the ultimate losers by the proposed cuts to HHS and NIH, including completely defunding programs to train nurses and skilled health professionals. These cuts will further undermine the great progress made under the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act that Congress passed last year. “By gutting services that have improved the lives of hard-working families, President Trump will endanger the healthcare and well-being for millions of Americans,” ### Contact: Joseph A. Puente (202) 225-8620 Joseph.Puente@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
03.13.2017	HOUSTON, TX — Congressman Gene Green released the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office, an independent, nonpartisan office, released the budgetary impacts of the Republican bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “The budget analysis that was released by the Congressional Budget Office today confirms why Republicans were so quick to push their bill through the Ways & Means and Energy & Commerce Committees last week,” said Green. “Americans should have known before the markup last week how many will lose coverage and what the costs will be. Instead, Republicans still moved forward knowing their plan will shift costs to the states, ration care, and leave millions paying more for less. “The plan they have put forth clearly does not compare favorably to the ACA, particularly on coverage and affordability. We should go back to the drawing board and work together to improve the ACA, not ram down changes that only benefit the wealthy and the healthy and put the entire system at risk.” The CBO analysis released today estimates nearly 24 million people would be uninsured by 2026, including 14 million being uninsured in 2018 alone. ### Contact: Joseph A. Puente (202) 225-8620 Joseph.Puente@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
03.06.2017	HOUSTON, TX — Congressman Gene Green, member of the Energy & Commerce Committee and Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee, released the following statement after Congressional Republicans proposed a bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “I am deeply disappointed that my colleagues are moving forward with their plan to undo the historic progress we’ve made in expanding health coverage under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) by entirely repealing it and leaving many millions of Americans who gained coverage without a way to maintain it,” said Green. “Since the ACA, the quality of health care has improved for every hard working American, but under Republicans’ repeal plan more Americans will be forced to pay more for less care. Medicaid expansion will be cut, families struggling to get ahead will receive less financial assistance, and the clock will severely roll back to a time when millions of Americans didn’t have health insurance before the ACA was law.” “The bill that was introduced this evening was secretly drafted and introduced less than two days before the committee markup. Americans deserve better. When the House Democrats held the majority in 2009, former Congressman Henry Waxman, Chair of the Energy & Commerce committee during the ACA debates, was transparent with the American people and held multiple hearings. Republicans should follow precedent and hold a 30-day public comment period instead of sitting on their hands. The Energy and Commerce Committee has scheduled a markup of this legislation on Wednesday, March 8, at 10:30 a.m., in room 2123 of Rayburn House Office Building. ###
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Representatives Gene Green (D-TX) and David McKinley (R-WV) reintroduced H.R. 1300, the U.S. Call Center and Consumer Protection Act to deter American companies from shipping call center and service jobs to foreign countries. H.R. 1300 would deter companies from shipping American jobs overseas and incentivize them to locate in the U.S. by creating a public list of ‘bad actors’ consisting of those that shipped all or most of their service work overseas. Being on the list would make these actors ineligible for federal grants or guaranteed loans, would require overseas call centers to disclose their locations to customers, and would require them to comply with U.S. consumers’ request to be transferred to a service agent physically located in the U.S. “There are 54,000 call center jobs in the Greater Houston area alone and 2.5 million nationwide. It is important that American workers continue to have access to good service sector jobs and receive a livable wage. Unfortunately, we have seen call center jobs moved overseas to India, the Philippines, and other countries. This bipartisan legislation will protect call center workers in Texas and throughout the country, and American consumers from unfair treatment,” said Green. In the last decade, there has been an increase in companies relocating their call centers overseas where foreign workers are often exposed to dismal labor conditions and paid cheaper wages. At the same time, communities across the country have committed millions in taxpayer dollars to fund incentives for companies to bring jobs to their neighborhoods, but have been left empty-handed. “Our number one priority in Congress is protecting and creating American jobs,” said McKinley. “Plain and simple, we should not be rewarding companies for moving jobs offshore. This bill does not mandate that companies keep call centers here in America, but simply says if you move call center jobs offshore, you don’t receive funding from the government. This should be common sense.” ### Contact: Joseph A. Puente (202) 225-8620 Joseph.Puente@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement following President Trump’s address to joint session of Congress: “What we heard this evening from President Trump is nothing different than what we heard when he was a candidate,” said Congressman Green. “He’s great at creating slogans, but he’s going to have a hard time legislating and providing solutions without a plan to deliver.” “I was hopeful that he would talk about ways to unite America, but instead we heard rhetoric of division as he embraced and reinforced his promise to build a southern border wall and dismantle the Affordable Care Act (ACA), instilling fear in the lives of immigrant families and millions of Americans whose health improved under the ACA.” “Although he spoke briefly about introducing a $1 trillion infrastructure package, I’m hopeful that we can work together to rebuild our nation’s road and bridges, including the Port of Houston, which is critical for trade and commerce in our state and country. “We owe it to the American public to work together as Americans to make sure our economy grows and people are treated fairly regardless of religion, race or ethnicity.” ### Contact: Joseph A. Puente (202) 225-8620 Joseph.Puente@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
02.22.2017	HOUSTON, TX — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement after Harris County Sheriff Gonzalez opted out of the voluntary U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) 287 (g) program. “I applaud Sheriff Gonzalez for ending a controversial partnership that deputizes law enforcement officers to perform similar functions of ICE agents,” said Green. “Houston and Harris County is home to more than 575,000 undocumented immigrants who are our neighbors and contributing members of our community. It is the responsibility of our officers to protect and serve, not detain and deport.” “Removing violent criminals must always be a priority for Sheriff Gonzalez, but this program has done more harm than good. There are better ways to address public safety concerns and today’s decision will free at least $675,000 in the Harris Co. budget, allowing more officers to safeguard our homes and families. ### Contact: Joseph A. Puente (202) 225-8620 Joseph.Puente@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement after overnight reports found that top Trump associates frequently contacted Russian intelligence officials months before the presidential election: “During the eight years of the Obama Administration, the Republicans in Congress investigated the Department of Veterans Affairs, the role of the Secretary of State, and the Internal Revenue Service. These investigations turned up little information and even less actionable items. Now, faced with hard facts of a link between Trump Administration officials and Russia, the House Majority seems to have turned a blind eye. The fact that the House of Representatives will not even inquire into possible connections between the White House and the Kremlin, let alone hold them accountable, will undermine the American public’s trust in this Administration and significantly harm our nation. Congress must create a bipartisan commission to fully investigate Russia’s influence on the Trump Administration and the 2016 election. It is the only way to clear the Trump Administration of its possible ties to Putin’s regime.” ### Contact: Joseph A. Puente (202) 225-8620 Joseph.Puente@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
02.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Tuesday, February 7th, Congressman Gene Green introduced a joint resolution, H.J.Res. 65, the Every Vote Counts Amendment, in the U.S. House of Representatives to amend the Constitution to abolish the Electoral College and require the President and Vice President be directly elected by the people. “Every important elected office in America today is chosen directly by the people, except the President. The 2000 and 2016 elections have shown us that the Electoral College system is failing, undermining our nation’s basic principles of democracy and equality,” said Congressman Gene Green. “One of the hallmarks of American democracy is its ability to adapt and respond to the people,” remarked Congressman Green. “Over 100 years ago, the Constitution was amended to require U.S. Senators be directly elected by the voting public in response to concerns similar to the Electoral College today. It is time for Congress and the states to get to work and give the power back to the American people.” The Electoral College was created in the 18th century when communications were poor, literacy was low, and voters lacked information about out-of-state candidates. Section Three of the Every Vote Counts Amendment reads: “The persons having the greatest number of votes for President and Vice President shall be elected.” The Every Vote Counts Amendment was introduced with 21 original cosponsors: Reps. Brendan Boyle, Julia Brownley, David Cicilline, Yvette Clarke, Steve Cohen, Joe Courtney, Peter DeFazio, Keith Ellison, Adriano Espaillat, John Garamendi, Al Green, Jared Huffman, Ted Lieu, James McGovern, Mark Pocan, Jan Schakowsky, Jose Serrano, Brad Sherman, Eric Swalwell, Juan Vargas, Filemon Vela. Contact: Sergio Espinosa (202) 225-1688 Sergio.Espinosa@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
01.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29 released the following statement on President Trump’s announcement that the United States would pay for a border wall through a tax on all imports from Mexico: “The economic and trade relationship between the United States and Mexico is crucial to Texas business owners and consumers. Mexico is without a doubt Texas’ largest trading partner and the business it creates fuels our state’s economic engine. President’s Trumps threat to impose a 20% tax on all imports from Mexico to pay for a wall, then subsequent back tracking creates uncertainty in the market and adversely affects business decisions on investment and growth. Negotiating trade deals through the media and governing by fiat is harmful to Texans.” ### Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
01.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gene Green (TX-29), the Ranking Member for the Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement on reports that the Trump administration has pulled funding for outreach and advertising in the final days of the 2017 Open Enrollment season: “The Trump Administration’s decision to cancel all ads reminding consumers to sign up for health coverage on Healthcare.gov is wrong and endangers the health and economic security of Americans. This final push of reminders and outreach has been highly successful in getting consumers to complete their enrollment, but now less seniors, working adults, and children will have health coverage. “President Trump has stated in unambiguous terms that he wants “insurance for everybody,” yet this decision runs completely contrary to that goal. It will be hard-working, middle class people who will pay the price for his attempt to sabotage the Affordable Care Act. This is yet another example of the President putting politics over the health and pocket books of American families.” ### Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
01.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – On Thursday, Representative Gene Green (TX-29) was elected to serve as the Ranking Democratic Member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce’s Subcommittee on Health for the 115th Congress. “It is an honor to continue to serve in leadership on the Health Subcommittee on behalf our District and all Americans,” Green said. “Because of our work 20,000 people in our District and 20 million Americans are benefiting from the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and from other key legislation that is increasing families’ and children’s access to health care.” Green added, “The Committee on Energy and Commerce will be on the frontlines against the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans who are quick to repeal the ACA without a plan, proposed legislation, or an idea of how to replace it. Our battle is to make sure that Republicans know the huge cost that the American people will bear because of their decision to put politics over the interests of our citizens.” During the 114th Congress, Rep. Green was an active member of the Health Subcommittee and worked to address pressing health care issues. These efforts included the enactment of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (P.L. 114-10), which permanently fixed the flawed Sustainable Growth Rate formula; the enactment of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (P.L. 114-198), which will increase education, awareness, and treatment of prescription opioids abuse; the passage into law of the 21st Century Cures Act, which will accelerate the pace of medical innovation and deliver cures to patients; fully funding the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and providing $7.2 billion for Community Health Centers through FY17. ### The Health Subcommittee has jurisdiction over public health and quarantine; hospital construction; mental health; biomedical research and development; health information technology, privacy, and cybersecurity; public health insurance (Medicare, Medicaid) and private health insurance; medical malpractice and medical malpractice insurance; the regulation of food, drugs, and cosmetics; drug abuse; the Department of Health and Human Services; the National Institutes of Health; the Centers for Disease Control; Indian Health Service; and all aspects of the above-referenced jurisdiction related to the Department of Homeland Security. Contact: Carlos Paz (202) 225-1688 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
01.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gene Green announced that the Harris County Department of Education would receive a $6 million Head Start continuation grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). “Children and families that participate in Head Start receive countless benefits that appear quickly and are long lasting,” said Rep. Gene Green. “This grant will ensure that Head Start keeps changing the lives of children and parents in our community through education. I applaud the award and will continue to fight for education initiatives and programs that open opportunities regardless of where you start.” Head Start provides early, continuous, intensive, and comprehensive child development and family support services to low-income infants, toddlers, pre-school children and their families, and pregnant women and their families. Head Start children have a higher likelihood of graduating high school, attending college, and receiving a post-secondary degree, license, or certification (Bauer and Schanzenbach, 2016). View Head Start fact sheets to learn more about demographics, state allocations, program statistics, and general information on Head Start enrollment history. View Harris County Department of Education’s Head Start FAQ page. ### Contact: Carlos Paz (202) 225-1688 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement today after the 115th Congress convened: “It’s an honor to represent Houstonians and our City in the 115th Congress. In Washington and at home I am constantly working so that our constituents’ voices are represented and so that our region has the policies and resources in place needed for it to be successful and prosperous. “As we look to the future, it is critical that we come together to put people before politics and craft responsible, fair, and sensible policies that will move our nation forward. "That is why I remain committed to fighting for the 20,000 constituents in the 29th Congressional District and the 20 million Americans who now have access to health care coverage because of the Affordable Care Act and to fighting efforts to undo the executive actions that have kept immigrant families from being split apart through deportation. I will push for legislation that strengthens and protects the American economy and increases our job base, ensures veterans receive the benefits they earned, and protects programs like Social Security, Medicaid, and CHIP which provide rungs for Americans to move up the economic ladder." Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
12.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, President Barack Obama signed into law legislation that will accelerate the pace of medical innovation and deliver cures to patients who desperately need them – the 21st Century Cures Act. This landmark bill co-authored by Rep. Gene Green was overwhelmingly passed by the House of Representatives on November 30, 2016, and passed the Senate on December 7, 2016. “More than two years ago we set out an ambitious goal of accelerating the pace of medical innovation and delivering cures to patients who desperately need them,” said Rep. Green. “President Barack Obama’s signature of the act into law marks a tremendous accomplishment and represents what can be done when leaders in Washington work together. It was a privilege to be a co-author of this effort.” The 21st Century Cures Act received strong bipartisan, bicameral support and will facilitate the development of new antibiotics to fight against superbugs, advance the use of modern clinical trial designs, foster the next generation of medical researchers, and deliver hope and new treatments to Americans in need. “The real-world impacts of the 21st Century Cures Act will affect the lives of Americans in treatment for cancer, Alzheimer's, heart disease, or other rare diseases for generations to come,” added Rep. Green. The most notable provisions of the $6.3 billion act will: Authorize $4.8 billion for the National Institutes of Health and $500 million to the Food and Drug Administration. Designate $1 billion over two years to battle the opioid epidemic. Call for $1.8 billion in funding for Vice President Joseph Biden's Cancer Moonshot initiative. Authorize a new approval pathway that will advance the development of new antibiotics. ### Contact: Carlos Paz (202) 225-1688 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
12.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congress has taken the final step to send the 21st Century Cures Act to the President’s desk for signature into law. The U.S. Senate voted overwhelmingly today to support legislation which will make huge strides to help Americans find better cures so they can live longer, healthier lives. “More than two years ago we set out an ambitious goal of accelerating the pace of medical innovation and delivering cures to patients who desperately need them,” said Rep. Green. “Key to this was increased investment in medical research and enhancing the Food and Drug Administration’s tools to review and approve new medicines. It was an honor and a privilege to be a co-author of this effort.” The legislation received strong bipartisan, bicameral support. It is slated for the President’s signature in the near future. The most notable provisions of the $6.3 billion act will: Authorize $4.8 billion for the National Institutes of Health and $500 million to the Food and Drug Administration. Designate $1 billion over two years to battle the opioid epidemic. Call for $1.8 billion in funding for Vice President Joseph Biden's Cancer Moonshot initiative. Authorize a new approval pathway that will advance the development of new antibiotics. ### Contact: Carlos Paz (202) 225-1688 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
12.06.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) joined Democratic Members of the Judiciary Committee for a forum entitled “The Electoral College and the Future of American Democracy” to discuss with a panel of experts and noted scholars whether the Electoral College is in need of reform. Below are Rep. Green’s remarks: “Thank you, Ranking Member Conyers, and colleagues on the Judiciary Committee for the opportunity to speak this afternoon on the Electoral College and the future of American Democracy. “My name is Gene Green. I have the honor of representing the 29th District of Texas, covering Northside and Eastside Houston and Harris County. It is a minority opportunity district that is 76 percent Hispanic. “A common complaint I hear at home is the feeling that voters are being disenfranchised by our current system for electing the President and Vice President. “Last month, Secretary Clinton and Senator Kaine received 72 percent of the vote in my district, and 43 percent statewide, making it the closest race for President and Vice President in Texas in 20 years. Nevertheless, 100 percent of Texas’s electoral votes, 38 in all, will go to Mr. Donald Trump and Governor Mike Pence. “Nationally, Secretary Clinton is currently leading Mr. Trump by nearly 2.7 million votes, but Mr. Trump is expected to receive 306 electoral votes, making him the President-elect. This is due to narrow victories by Mr. Trump and Governor Pence in several battleground states, including Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. “As Members of Congress, we have an obligation to examine our current system for electing the President, and ask if it is fair to all Americans. For the 72 percent of my constituents in Harris County, Texas who voted for Secretary Clinton, and for voters in California and New York who supported Mr. Trump, it is not. “The 2016 General Election will be the second time in 16 years that the winner of the popular vote lost the Electoral College. In December 2000, I introduced a resolution in Congress to abolish the Electoral College and have the President and Vice President elected by direct popular vote. “Since 2000, I have introduced this resolution seven times, most recently on November 17 as H.J.Res. 102, the Every Vote Counts Amendment. It currently has 17 cosponsors and I welcome all the Members here to support it. “The creation of the Electoral College, like much our Constitution, was a compromise between the 13 original states. Since 1788, Congress and the states have made significant changes to the Constitution to modernize many of these original compromises, including the 17th Amendment, providing for the direct election of U.S. Senators, 15th Amendment, which gave all men the right to vote, regardless of race or color, and the 19th Amendment, which gave women the right to vote. “These amendments have made our country a more perfect union by expanding the franchise to all Americans and guaranteeing the direct election of all the people’s representatives in Congress. “I urge my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee and in Congress to strongly consider changes towards how the President and Vice President are elected. As the people’s elected representatives, we have a duty to ensure that all Americans have an equal vote in determining who will be the next leader of our great country. “Thank you for your time and consideration on this issue vital to the future of our country.” ### Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
11.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Thursday, November 17th, Congressman Gene Green will introduce legislation in the House of Representatives to amend the Constitution of the United States to abolish the Electoral College and instead use direct election to decide presidential elections. The resolution is co-sponsored by 16 Members of Congress. In the Senate, Senator Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) filed legislation Tuesday, November 15th, to abolish the Electoral College in light of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton winning the popular vote but still losing the election. “This marks the second time in 16 years that a clear plurality of Americans voted for a presidential candidate who did not win the White House, undermining our nation’s most basic principles of democracy and equality,” said Congressman Gene Green. “In 1913, Congress and the states trusted the people to elect their Senators. Do we trust the people today? Every American citizen’s presidential vote should count equally in 2016, not just the votes of delegates in the Electoral College who are not bound to follow the will of the people. Our modern democracy calls for every vote to carry the same weight in the election, no matter where in the nation it was cast,” added Green. The Electoral College was created in the 18th century when communications were poor, literacy was low, and voters lacked information about out-of-state candidates. Section Three of Congressman Green’s proposed Amendment reads: “The persons having the greatest number of votes for President and Vice President shall be elected.” The co-sponsors of the resolution are: Reps. Brendan Boyle, Julia Brownley, David Cicilline, Yvette Clarke, Steve Cohen, Keith Ellison, John Garamendi, Jared Huffman, Steve Israel, Ted Lieu, James McGovern, Jan Schakowsky, Jose Serrano, Eric Swalwell, Juan Vargas, and Filemon Vela. ###
10.20.2016	HOUSTON, TX – On October 20, Congressman Gene Green attended a public meeting hosted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to discuss and receive comments from the community about the EPA’s proposed cleanup plan for the San Jacinto River Waste Pits. “For too long the communities of eastern Harris County have been put at risk by the hazardous material found in the San Jacinto Waste Pits Superfund site,” said Congressman Gene Green. “The plan presented by the EPA is the culmination of a decade of calls by community members and local officials to fully remove the waste and protect families and children from public health risks.” The 14-acre San Jacinto River Waste Pits site consists of several hazardous waste ponds built in the mid-1960s for the disposal of paper mill wastes as well as other contaminated soils. The waste pits, which border the 29th Congressional District, were identified in 2005 and because of the work of Congressmen Ted Poe and Gene Green were designated a Superfund site in 2008. The waste pits are the reason for the elevated dioxin levels in sediment and sea life downstream and in Galveston Bay. “I along with Harris County, the Galveston Bay Foundation and the San Jacinto Coalition support the EPA’s proposal to fully dredge the waste pits over permanently capping the waste because the plan adheres to federal law, which prefers cleanups that ‘permanently and significantly’ reduce contamination. Capping would provide a short term solution that could fail in the case of a natural disaster or equipment malfunction or deterioration.” Rep. Green added, “Our office is aware of some of the concerns with dredging. We are also aware that the EPA will put in place controls that will limit possible spreading of contaminated soil during the cleanup and follow best management practices recommended by the Army Corps of Engineers, including doing the cleanup in stages to limit exposure from potential storms.” “I thank the EPA, TCEQ, and Harris County officials for their commitment to protecting our communities and diligence in addressing the San Jacinto Waste Pits. We will continue to work until the hazardous waste and the threat to families and children is removed.” ### Contact: Carlos Paz (202) 225-1688 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
10.19.2016	HOUSTON, TX – Congressman Gene Green will attend a public meeting hosted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on Thursday, October 20. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss and receive comments from the community about the EPA’s proposed cleanup plan for San Jacinto River Waste Pits. “My priorities are that this public health threat is dealt with properly and that the community is engaged throughout this process,” said Rep. Gene Green. “It is critically important that all stakeholders come together to understand and address this critical health hazard. This meeting continues a dialogue between the EPA and the community, so that we can all better understand the cleanup plan and the safeguards the agency plans to put in place to ensure the waste is being dealt with in the safest method possible.” On September 28, EPA released for public comment its proposed plan to clean up waste materials. In addition to Thursday night’s meeting, the public has 60 days to submit written comments on the proposed plan (Monday, November 28). The 14-acre San Jacinto River Waste Pits site consists of several hazardous waste ponds, or impoundments, built in the mid-1960s for the disposal of paper mill wastes as well as other contaminated soils that had been disposed alongside the San Jacinto River. All community members are encouraged to attend. WHAT: Public meeting to discuss the EPA’s proposed cleanup plan of the San Jacinto Waste Pits. WHEN: Thursday, October 20, 2016, 6:30 p.m. WHERE: Highlands Community Center, 604 Highland Woods Drive, Highlands, Texas Full EPA Proposed Cleanup Plan: https://www.epa.gov/tx/sjrwp EPA Press Release regarding Proposed Plan: https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-announces-proposed-plan-san-jacinto-waste-pits-superfund-site ### Contact: Carlos Paz (202) 225-1688 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
10.19.2016	HOUSTON, TX – Congressman Gene Green hosted Houston-area students and parents at his Paying for College Workshop and Academy Day on Monday, October 17th at Pasadena High School. During this free event, a representative from The Sallie Mae Fund spoke to families about how to apply for scholarships, financial aid, and the important factors to consider when selecting the school that fits them. Students were also reminded that this year’s Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) was made available on October 1st, three months earlier than the traditional January 1 date. About one million students submitted their FAFSA applications within the first ten days since the launch of the application, outpacing recent years. “I want every student to have the option to attend college, regardless of financial background,” said Rep. Green. “That is why I encourage students to apply for FAFSA early, so that more students can access the historic investment in financial aid and better information when they need it. It is my hope that every student who attended this event walked away feeling more confident that the cost of college can be made affordable.” Representatives from the U.S. Military Service Academies, Project Grad, San Jacinto College North, Houston Community College, University of Houston, UH-D, Texas Southern University and Lone Star College were available to students who were interested in applying to one of their institutions. Additionally, several universities awarded scholarships onsite to attending high school seniors: Recipient of $250 Scholarship from San Jacinto College Angelica Carroll, a senior at Pasadena High School. Angelica is currently a dual credit student and will be receiving her associate’s degree from San Jacinto College along with her high school diploma in May. She is studying physical science and plans to later attend UT and major in biology. Recipient of $1,000 Scholarship from Texas Southern University Anthony Garcia, a senior at Pasadena High. Anthony plans on majoring in electrical engineering. Recipient of $1,000 Scholarship from Texas Southern University Joe Castaneda, a senior at Pasadena High. Joe plans on majoring in civil engineering. Sergio Gonzalez with Sallie Mae, Congressman Gene Green, Scholarship Winner – Joe Castaneda, Scholarship Winner – Anthony Garcia, Beatrice Gonzales with Texas Southern University, Scholarship Winner – Angelica Carroll, Joshua Lowry with San Jacinto College and Pasadena High School Principal – Joe Saavedra ### Contact: Carlos Paz (202) 225-1688 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement in response to the Federal Communication Commission’s elimination of the set-top box item from the September 29, 2016 Open Meeting agenda: “I am pleased that the Federal Communications Commission made the right decision and postponed the vote on its set top box proposal this morning. Countless households in Houston and Harris County and throughout the country may be adversely impacted by this proposal that, to this date, has not been made available for public review or comment. “Competition in the set top box market is important, but it cannot undermine our nation’s copyright laws and the rights of content creators. I hope the Commission will take this opportunity to do the right thing and make its proposal available for the public.” On September 22, 2016, Congressman Green sent a letter to the FCC signed by 64 Democrats calling for a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to address content community concerns. ### Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
09.28.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released its proposed plan to address contamination at the San Jacinto Waste Pits Superfund site in eastern Harris County, Texas. The 14-acre San Jacinto River Waste Pits site consists of several hazardous waste ponds, or impoundments, built in the mid-1960s for the disposal of paper mill wastes as well as other contaminated soils that had been disposed alongside the San Jacinto River. “For too long the communities of eastern Harris County have been put at risk by the hazardous material found in the San Jacinto Waste Pits Superfund site,” said Congressman Gene Green. “Today’s EPA plan is the culmination of a decade of calls by community members and local officials to fully remove the waste and protect families and children from public health risks.” “I thank the EPA, TCEQ, and Harris County officials for their commitment to protecting our communities and diligence in addressing the San Jacinto Waste Pits. We will continue to work until the hazardous waste and the threat to families and children is removed,” added Congressman Green. Here is a brief summary of the key points in the EPA’s announcement: EPA’s preferred remedy proposes removing a total of about 202,000 cubic yards of contaminated material from the northern and southern impoundments at a cost of nearly $96.9 million. The plan will be open for public comment for 60 days, beginning Thursday, September 29, and ending Monday, November 28. EPA will also host a public meeting at the Highlands Community Center in Highlands, Texas on October 20, 2016. Full EPA Proposed Cleanup Plan: https://www.epa.gov/tx/sjrwp EPA Press Release regarding Proposed Plan: https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-announces-proposed-plan-san-jacinto-waste-pits-superfund-site ### Contact: Carlos Paz (202) 225-1688 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
09.26.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — In response to discouraging changes to the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) that removed vital support for our nation’s ports Congressman Ted Poe (TX- 02) and Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) issued the following statements. The House is expected to vote on WRDA this week: “I am disappointed by the changes to the Water Resources Development Act,” said Congressman Poe. “WRDA strengthened the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, helping to guarantee that the Port of Houston wouldn’t have to shell out its own dollars instead of using the fund as it was intended. Strong ports mean jobs, economic growth and a more secure nation. It is my hope that Congress will include the original language protecting the fund, and continue to make sure that the funds within the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund are fully utilized. Maintaining our waterways and port-related infrastructure is critical to future trade and commerce efforts.” Congressman Green, whose district includes the Port of Houston, which is the second busiest port in total tonnage in the United States added, “I’m disappointed critical funding authority for our ports has been put at risk. Our ports serve as our gateways for trade & commerce and create good jobs for millions of hard working Americans which is why I supported the bipartisan efforts of the Transportation Committee to strengthen our ports. I am hopeful my colleagues will come together to restore this key provision.” ### Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC—Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), and Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) today introduced the Medicare Affordability and Enrollment Act, which would improve Medicare coverage for all seniors and those with disabilities and modernize the enrollment system to help facilitate easier enrollment. Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR) introduced companion legislation in the Senate today. The legislation seeks to make several key improvements to Medicare by establishing a maximum out-of-pocket spending cap for traditional Medicare, expanding access to premium and out-of-pocket payment assistance for low-income beneficiaries, and updating and improving the current Medicare enrollment process. “As a growing number of Americans begin to enroll in Medicare, we have to make sure the program continues to meet their needs and provides affordable, high-quality health coverage,” said Pallone, Levin, Green and McDermott. “This bill would help simplify Medicare for seniors, make coverage more affordable for more Americans, and enable individuals with disabilities to obtain their coverage without a waiting period. Instead of privatizing Medicare—as suggested by Republicans—and destroying it for current and future generations, Democrats are committed to making sure the program works for all Americans who paid into it.” With more than 85 percent of Medicare beneficiaries currently needing supplemental insurance to fully meet their healthcare needs, the four House Health leaders said Congress must improve the actual benefit that Medicare provides. The bill would: Set a maximum out-of-pocket cap of $5,500 for medical services under traditional Medicare, which exists today for Medicare Advantage and most commercial insurance plans; Significantly expand the number of low-income beneficiaries eligible for financial assistance to cover premiums and out-of-pocket costs; Reduce cost-sharing for “near-poor” beneficiaries who are not eligible for any assistance today; Eliminate the arbitrary two-year waiting period for people with disabilities to enroll in Medicare; Modernize the Medicare enrollment system to facilitate easier enrollment, allow people to begin coverage earlier and reduce arbitrary late-enrollment penalties that today are paid for over a lifetime; Extend cost-sharing assistance for Part D enrollees for their prescription drugs in Puerto Rico, which is currently offered to all other eligible Medicare beneficiaries; and, Increase and extend permanent funding for low-income Medicare beneficiary outreach and education activities. The bill has been endorsed by the following organizations: National Coalition on Aging, Medicare Rights Center, The Arc, AFSCME, Justice in Aging, Dialysis Patient Citizens, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, Center for Medicare Advocacy, Families USA, and the National Consumer Voice for Quality Long Term Care. A one-page summary is available here. A section-by-section summary of the bill can be found here. Legislative text of the bill can be found here. ### Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement in commemoration of Hispanic Heritage Month, which begins today: “During Hispanic Heritage Month we honor the rich and nuanced cultures and traditions that exist in the Latino community and recognize the many contributions Latinos have made to our great Nation. “This month, we focus on what the Latino community means for our country. From contributing to the arts and sciences, to protecting our freedoms by bravely serving in our Armed Forces, to starting millions of small businesses, our Latino community shows us that America’s promise is alive and well. “In Congress we must do our part to truly honor these contributions by ensuring that we support policies that create open and inclusive environments where Latinos have the opportunity to raise and provide for their families, have access to quality education and healthcare, and where barriers are lifted so that dreams can be realized. “Hispanic heritage is not merely grounded in the past; it is influencing how we experience the present, and will continue to shape America’s future.” ### Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) announced that he would co-sponsor the Veterans Education Recovery and Restoration Act (H.R. 3991), legislation that would address the significant consequences faced by student veterans enrolled at institutions that close abruptly. The legislation would reinstate GI Bill education assistance benefits to student veterans and continue housing allowance payments through the current semester to keep student veterans from becoming homeless while they decide on their next steps. This bipartisan, bicameral bill, introduced by Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41), would provide relief to the roughly 12,500 veterans and their families enrolled at ITT Educational Services, Inc. (ITT) nationwide: “The Veterans Education Recovery and Restoration Act would honor the sacrifice made by our student veterans and keep whole the promise we made to them,” said Rep. Gene Green. “The student veterans affected by the closures of three ITT campuses in Houston and Harris County put their lives on the line for our country with the understanding that we would take care of them in their time of need. Congress has a moral obligation to safeguard the benefits they have earned." “Almost half of the student veterans affected are married with children, and 14% are single parents. The Veterans Administration (VA) does not have any discretion under current law to continue or restore GI Bill payments once a school closes. This legislation would provide the VA with that ability,” added Rep. Green. “The majority of ITT students come from humble backgrounds and invest thousands of dollars in their education for a better future for themselves and their families. It is my hope that student veterans do not give up on their education. Restarting or continuing one’s education at a high-quality, reputable institution may feel like a setback today, but it is a decision that will pay off in the long run,” Rep. Green said in closing. ### Please find an overview of what student veterans and other GI Bill beneficiaries need to know now regarding ITT’s closure. Option 1: Transfer Students can transfer to a new school. If they act quickly to transfer, they can avoid the possibility of any break in housing allowance. If the housing allowance is critical to the student, then he or she may want to act now to transfer. But there are other considerations below. If a student wants to transfer to a new school, there are helpful resources: The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ college search engine “GI Bill College Comparison Tool” is here. The U.S. Education Department's college search engine “College Scorecard” is here. A reliable, non-profit, community college search engine is here. Tips on choosing a college for veterans are here. A list of all of the ITT Tech locations with the nearest community college is here, including a list with a map view. Please steer your constituents clear of private company websites, which often push students to schools that pay to be listed on the website. The U.S. government websites don't accept any money to promote schools; the U.S. government provides fair and accurate information. The best education is not online, but in a classroom. However, if a student really wants to study online, please recommend that he or she attends a public online college, such as Penn State World Campus, Arizona State University Online, or Georgia Tech University Online. Many community colleges also have online offerings. One of the best schools to transfer to is a local community college. Community colleges are properly accredited, their credits are respected by other colleges and universities, and their degrees are often more respected by employers than schools like ITT. Also, they have very low tuition, so if a student has to repeat credits and his or her GI Bill months are running out, the financial hardship will be less. Unfortunately, a student might face the hard truth that some credits may not transfer to a new school and the student may need to repeat credits. Why? Because ITT’s credits are often not respected by other schools (and likely won’t be respected by many employers). That’s a hard truth to face, especially after ITT probably promised students they were great. Option 2: Federal Education Loan Discharge If an ITT student has not finished the education program and he or she hasn’t yet transferred credits to “a comparable educational program at another school,” the student will likely be eligible to have federal loans discharged (forgiven) by the U.S. Department of Education under the “closed school discharge” rules (more information here). In order to qualify for a “closed school discharge,” the student will have to reject a “teach out” plan that is offered when ITT closes. (ITT and the government may push the student to take the “teach out,” but if accepted the “teach out,” the student cannot get the “closed school discharge” of loans. On the other hand, the student may get more credits to transfer in a “teach out.”) If the student decides to seek a “closed school discharge,” please understand that under current law, he or she would not get back any of their GI Bill entitlement, and would not continue to receive their housing allowance. Also, be aware that most private loans cannot be forgiven (discharged), but the student should check the specific promissory note signed when taking out the loan. Additional Resources for ITT Student Veterans: Call Student Veterans of America to get expert guidance specific to the student's circumstances: 202-223-4710, www.studentveterans.org. Veterans Education Success is keeping their website updated with current information: www.veteranseducationsuccess.org. Call the VA’s Education Call Center at 1-888-442-4551 (Monday-Friday, 7am to 6pm CST). I am working to prepare a briefing so offices have the resources they need to handle school closures like this in the future. Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
09.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement in response to ITT Educational Services, Inc. (ITT) announcing that it is closing all of its ITT campuses, including three in the Houston area. “My biggest concern is for the nearly 1,600 current students in Houston and Harris County whose futures are immediately impacted by ITT Educational Services, Inc.’s (ITT) decision to not take corrective actions and instead close. The closure came amid increasingly heightened financial oversight measures put in place by the Department of Education over the past two years due to significant concerns about ITT’s administrative capacity, organizational integrity, financial viability, and ability to serve students. It was ITT’s business decisions that put its students and millions of dollars in taxpayer-funded federal student aid at risk. “The majority of ITT students come from humble backgrounds and invest thousands of dollars in their education for a better future for themselves and their families. It is the job of Congress and the Department of Education to honor these students’ hard work and safeguard their financial commitment to their education. Most immediately, students have two basic options to choose between: 1. apply for a discharge or 2. transfer schools. “Whatever students choose to do, it is my hope that they do not give up on their education. Restarting or continuing one’s education at a high-quality, reputable institution may feel like a setback today, but it is a decision that will pay off in the long run.” ### Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
08.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Diana DeGette (D-CO) sent a letter to Mylan Chief Executive Officer Heather Bresch today seeking information about the pricing of the EpiPen, including information about recent announcements by the company to launch an authorized generic and offer additional discounts to patients. Mylan has increased the cost of the EpiPen, which is used to treat patients suffering from an allergic emergency, by more than 400 percent since first acquiring rights to the medication in 2007. “We would like more information to understand Mylan’s pricing of its EpiPen and how the company is ensuring that patients suffering from allergic emergencies have access to these life-saving products,” the Energy and Commerce Democrats wrote in their letter to Bresch. “Further, please explain why Mylan chose to authorize a generic product versus reducing the cost of its brand name EpiPen - a brand American consumers have consistently relied on for decades.” The three Democratic Committee leaders also called on full Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) to schedule a hearing next month on Mylan’s pricing practices and its impact on Americans who suffer from severe allergies. “Mylan’s 400 percent price increase of this life-saving medication is deeply troubling, and should be properly examined by our committee as soon as possible,” the Energy and Commerce Committee Democrats said. “We’re requesting Chairman Upton schedule a hearing in September to better understand the industry environment and practices that allowed for the skyrocketing cost of EpiPens so that we can ensure all patients continue to have access to this life-saving drug.” When Mylan acquired the EpiPen in 2007, the wholesale cost of the product was $57. Today, the list price of a dual EpiPen package is over $600. Aggressive marketing and price increases led to EpiPen sales of over $1 billion in 2015, which accounted for approximately 40 percent of Mylan’s profits. As part of their letter to Mylan, the members submitted additional questions and requests for information, including: Why did Mylan increase the cost of the EpiPen by 400 percent? Provide specific details on product improvements and investments made by the company that improved safety, efficacy or convenience in light of the company’s statements that product improvements have driven up the costs of the EpiPen. What, if any, research did Mylan conduct on the patient impact of such a drastic price increase? Did Mylan consult with patient advocacy groups, hospitals, insurance providers, or other stakeholders before increasing the list price of EpiPen? What information does Mylan have on how many EpiPen products are purchased by federal programs? To what extent did Mylan take into account the cost to the American taxpayer when attempting to control costs through a savings card program, which federal programs are prohibited by law from participating in, versus an overall price decrease? Why did Mylan opt to utilize a savings card program versus an overall price decrease? A copy of the letter is available here CONTACT CJ Young — (202) 225-5735
08.26.2016	HOUSTON – Today, Rep. Green marked Women’s Equality Day, when we celebrate the 96th anniversary of the 19th Amendment, which ensured a woman’s right to vote. “On Women’s Equality Day, we celebrate one of the great leaps forward for our democracy – finally giving women the right to vote,” Rep. Green stated. “When women won the vote, we honored our most fundamental values as a nation.” This day is a day to honor the memories of such giants of the suffragette movement as Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucretia Mott, and Sojourner Truth. These women showed enormous courage for decades in fighting for women’s rights, but unfortunately none of them lived to see women gain the right to vote. It took 72 years between the first major women’s rights conference at Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848, and the adoption of the 19th Amendment in 1920. Highlighting the courage of the suffragettes, on November 5, 1872, Susan B. Anthony cast a ballot in the presidential election, although women at the time were prohibited from doing so. Two weeks later, she was arrested, and the following year, there was a trial and she was found guilty of illegal voting. Fortunately, President Ulysses Grant pardoned her so she didn’t go to prison. But it would take another 48 years until the 19th Amendment would finally grant women nationwide the right to vote. “On this Women’s Equality Day, let us rededicate ourselves to policies that ensure women can fully participate in our economy and reach their full potential, knowing that when women succeed, America succeeds,” Rep. Green concluded.
08.25.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29), the Ranking Member for the Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement in response to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) report showing that expanding Medicaid lowers Marketplace premiums by about 7 percent in those states: “I have repeatedly called for the expansion of Medicaid in Texas because it is one of the most cost-effective and efficient ways to improve the health of our state. An expansion in Texas would mean that 1 million people would gain health insurance coverage – 50,000 of which live in our District,” said Green. “By rejecting Medicaid expansion, Texas not only forgoes its citizens’ access to affordable and comprehensive healthcare but also gives up billions in economic benefits. It is time to expand Medicaid in Texas and do right by Texans.” According to a report by the National Public Radio (NPR), the decision by Texas to reject expansion of Medicaid will cost the state an estimated $100 billion in federal dollars over a decade. At the same time its hospitals are baring a $5.5 billion annual cost for treating uninsured patients. Those uncompensated costs in turn are being covered by taxes and insurance premiums paid by the state's businesses and residents, who are also footing the bill for expanding Medicaid in states that agreed to accept federal funds to offer coverage to nearly all low-income adults. According to the HHS report, “As of February 2016, 20 million individuals have gained health insurance thanks to provisions of the ACA, including Medicaid expansion and the establishment of Health Insurance Marketplaces. A comparison of cross-border counties shows that, on average, the benchmark premium in the Marketplace was 7% lower in 2015 in states that expanded Medicaid relative to states that did not.” To read the HHS report, visit: https://aspe.hhs.gov/pdf-report/effect-medicaid-expansion-marketplace-premiums Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29), the Ranking Member for the Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement today in response to a baby boy born with microcephaly in Harris County, and who is the first Zika-affected infant in Texas: “As the Ranking Democratic Member for the Subcommittee on Health, the well-being of Americans is foremost on my mind. The news of a baby born with microcephaly in Harris County both reminds us of the health risks posed to pregnant women and newborns and the urgency for Congress to adequately and responsibly fund our response to the Zika virus. “I have repeatedly called for my colleagues in Congress to act because I understand the alarming public health threat that Zika poses. Funding to fight the Zika virus must be treated as the emergency that it is, similar to past public health emergencies like Ebola and the H1N1 viruses,” said Congressman Gene Green. “Failure to do so is a failure to lead and fulfill our responsibility to protect the American people. Our response to this serious national challenge demands swift action, and it should not be at the expense of other public health priorities. ” “I remind families and women trying to become pregnant, who are currently pregnant, or who are thinking about becoming pregnant, to talk with their doctor before traveling to the areas where Zika virus transmission is ongoing and to strictly follow steps to prevent mosquito bites during the trip. To prevent Zika and other mosquito-borne diseases, everyone should take steps to prevent mosquito bites, such as removing standing water from their property and using insect repellant that is safe for their skin.” ### Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the U.S. Labor Department announced that Houston workforce service provider and non-profit, SER - Jobs for Progress of the Texas Gulf Coast Inc., would receive a federal grant to implement the Training to Work program. “This grant will provide the resources needed so that Houstonians who have paid their debt to society can reintegrate, learn skills, and contribute to their communities and families,” said Rep. Gene Green. “One of my top priorities in the House of Representatives is to strengthen and protect the American economy and increase our job base. The best way to accomplish this is through strengthening our domestic economy, creating jobs, and training workers.” The Training to Work program will offer returning citizens in a state or local work release program an opportunity to participate in a career pathway program that defines and maps out a sequence of education, training and workforce skills training resulting in skilled workers that meets the needs of local employers. Additionally, these programs will provide services such as case management, mentoring, and follow-up services. “Thousands of individuals return to Harris County following incarceration with little to no support in reintegrating, so there is a major need for these services and resources,” said SER CEO Nory Angel. “SER is grateful for this opportunity to help individuals needing a second chance to rebuild their lives and become active contributors to their families, communities, and our local economy.” This funding is part of a larger effort by the Labor Department to address the employment and life challenges faced by many people involved with the criminal justice system, the department is awarding grants to 40 organizations providing services in 26 U.S. states and the District of Columbia through four programs – Reentry Demonstration Projects for Young Adults, Training to Work, Pathways to Justice Careers, and Linking to Employment Activities Pre-Release. ###
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. - Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) and Rep. Paul Cook (R-CA) today introduced HR 5579, the Secure E-waste Export and Recycling Act (SEERA). This national security bill stops the flow of e-waste to China and other countries that regularly counterfeit electronics. The bill will ensure that such waste does not become the source of counterfeit goods that may reenter military and civilian electronics in the United States. SEERA addresses an issue first identified in a Senate Armed Services Committee study that found 1,800 cases of counterfeit parts in military technology. The Senate study concluded that “there is no way to predict how well they [counterfeit chips] will perform, how long they will last, and the full impact of failure.” Defense experts have also raised concerns that malware can be placed on counterfeits to help hackers and cyber-terrorists launch attacks. SEERA would stop the flow of e-waste from the United States that is undermining our national security by requiring domestic recycling of all untested, nonworking electronics. By keeping these materials in the United States, we will keep them out the hands of counterfeiters and data thieves. Under SEERA, export of tested working equipment will continue and is expected to grow, creating tens of thousands of good-paying jobs for Americans. Customs and Border Protection would be authorized to inspect shipments of electronic products intended for export and would stop the shipment and hold the shipper accountable. Cook said, “China regularly counterfeits electronics and puts these dangerous products, including critical military equipment, back into the market. These electronic components threaten the reliability and safety of a wide range of technology. SEERA will ensure we’re not exporting electronic scrap materials that come back to us as counterfeit parts and undermine the reliability of technology essential to our national security.” “E-waste is the fast growing segment of our domestic waste stream. This problem will continue to grow unless Congress acts to ensure that electronic waste is recycled responsibly in the United States and out of the hands of counterfeiters overseas. The Secure E-waste Export and Recycling Act (SEERA) will help ensure our servicemen and women have reliable technology to protect our country and create thousands of jobs in Texas and recycling facilities around the country,” said Rep. Green. “I have worked on e-waste for nearly a decade and look forward to Congress holding hearings on this bipartisan legislation and seeing it come before the full House for a vote.” ### Congressman Gene Green is a Representative for the Texas 29th Congressional District. For the 114th Congress, he is the Ranking Member for the Subcommittee on Health, and also serves on the Subcommittee on Energy and Power, Subcommittee on Environment and Economy, and the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Rep. Paul Cook is a member of the House Natural Resources, Armed Services, and Foreign Affairs Committees, Cook served as an infantry officer and retired after 26 years as a Colonel in the U.S. Marine Corps. During his time in combat, he was awarded the Bronze Star and two Purple Hearts.
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Congresista Gene Green publicó las siguientes declaraciones luego de la decisión dividida en el caso Texas vs. Estados Unidos: “Es una decepción que las decisiones de la Corte Suprema quedaron en punto muerto. Estas acciones ejecutivas constituyen una manera para reparar nuestro sistema de inmigración deshecho y para que funcione mientras esperamos una reforma migratoria integral. “Durante los últimos años he apoyado una reforma migratoria integral, que permite que inmigrantes indocumentados sin antecedentes penales puedan ser elegibles para solicitar la Residencia Permanente y/o serse ciudadano/a. "El Distrito 29 de Texas tiene una de las mayores poblaciones de inmigrantes en los Estados Unidos. Estos son nuestros amigos y familiares; vecinos y compañeros y colegas en clases; DREAMers y los padres de ciudadanos y residentes permanentes legales. Ellos enriquecen nuestras comunidades y contribuyen a nuestra economía cada día. Somos más fuertes cuando abrazamos los inmigrantes, y no cuando los denigramos. Necesitamos construir puentes, no muros. "Durante casi un siglo nuestro Distrito ha sido, tradicionalmente, el puerto de entrada de inmigrantes que llegan al Golfo de Texas y siempre les hemos dado la bienvenida a los inmigrantes que trabajan duro, porque creemos en la promesa de los Estados Unidos. Insisto a mis colegas en el Congreso que recuerden que la vida de millones de inmigrantes y familias trabajadoras estadounidenses siguen en limbo migratorio. Tenemos que trabajar en la reforma migratoria integral que nuestra nación necesita con urgencia." ### Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement today in response to the Supreme Court’s deadlocked decision in Texas v. United States: “Today’s deadlocked decision from the Supreme Court is disappointing. These executive actions are commonsense stepping stones to making our broken immigration system work better while we wait for full and comprehensive immigration reform. “For years, I have supported comprehensive immigration reform, which would enable undocumented immigrants with no previous criminal record to apply for residency and earn U.S. Citizenship. “Texas’ 29th District is home to one of the largest immigrant populations in the United States. These are our friends and family members; neighbors and classmates; DREAMers and parents of Americans and lawful permanent residents. They enrich our communities and contribute to our economy every day. We are stronger when we embrace immigrants, not vilify them. We need to build bridges, not walls. “Our district has been the traditional port of entry for immigrants coming to the greater Gulf Region for nearly a century and has always welcomed hard-working immigrants because we believe in the promise of America. I urge my colleagues in Congress to remember that the lives of millions of immigrants and hardworking American families are hanging in the balance and to work on the comprehensive immigration reform our nation so urgently needs.” ### Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, President Barack Obama signed into law the first overhaul of the Toxic Substances Control Act in 40 years - the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act. This landmark bill passed the House of Representatives on May 24 on a 403-12 vote and it was approved by the Senate on June 7 by voice vote. “For nearly a decade, I have worked to overhaul the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) because it directly affects communities in and around Eastside Houston and Harris County, home to one of the largest collection of chemical facilities in the country,” said Rep. Green. “The reforms contained in the new law will enhance protections for the fenceline communities next to the plants and the workers in our chemical plants, and respond to the concerns of industry to provide regulatory certainty for job creators throughout our economy.” The legislation received strong bipartisan, bicameral support as well as support from industry, manufacturers, and environmental and public health organizations. Rep. Green added, “President Barack Obama’s signature of the act into law marks a tremendous accomplishment and represents what can be done when leaders in Washington work together.” The most notable improvements in the bill are: Replacing current TSCA’s burdensome safety standard with a pure, health-based standard. Explicitly requiring the protection of vulnerable populations, like children, pregnant women, and workers at chemical facilities. Requiring a safety finding before new chemicals are allowed to go to market. Giving EPA new authority to order testing and ensure chemicals are safe, with a focus on the most risky chemicals. ### Contact: Carlos Paz (202) 225-1688 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
06.21.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Michael Burgess M.D. (R-TX) and Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) introduced bipartisan legislation aimed at making health care more affordable by promoting greater transparency around the costs of health care services for patients. The Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act of 2016 calls upon the states to establish and maintain laws requiring disclosure of information on hospital charges, to make such information available to the public, and to provide individuals with information about estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services. “At no point in the course of care should patients ever be left in the dark, lacking critical information to make the most informed decision about treatment options, particularly when it comes to cost. Our current health insurance system insulates patients from the true cost of health services,” said Rep. Burgess. “This legislation takes the first step towards ensuring true price transparency in the health care market.” “The fact that patients rarely know what health care services cost until after they've received them and the wide variety in pricing, make the health care market uniquely difficult to navigate,” said Rep. Green. “Greater transparency around prices of health care services will enable patients and families to choose lower-cost, high-value care and promote competition in the market. This bill is an important first step towards empowering patients and advancing value-based care.” Additionally, this bill calls for research on: (1) the types of cost information that individuals find useful in making decisions regarding healthcare; (2) how this useful information varies according to an individual’s health insurance coverage, and if so, by what type of coverage they have; and (3) ways that this information may be distributed in a timely and simple manner. According to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, total health care spending in the United States grew 2.9 percent in 2013 and another 5.3 percent in 2014, reaching $3.0 trillion or $9,523 per person. This is a $300 billion increase in total spending since 2011 and is projected to grow at an average rate of 5.8 percent per year. As a share of the nation's Gross Domestic Product, health spending accounts for 17.5 percent and expected to reach 19.6 percent by 2024. The bill has the support of numerous groups including the American Hospital Association (AHA). “We strongly support the Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act. This legislation builds on existing state efforts, while requiring insurers to provide information on estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services, often the most valuable information for insured patients. Patients should have all available tools to help them make important choices about their care,” said Tom Nickels, Executive Vice President of Government Relations and Public Policy at the American Hospital Association. ### Contact: Carlos Paz Jr. (202) 225-8620 Carlos.Paz@mail.house.gov Facebook: /RepGeneGreen Twitter: @RepGeneGreen
06.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Democratic Members of the House Energy & Commerce Committee, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO), Congresswoman Doris Matsui (D-CA), Congressman Paul Tonko (D-NY), Congressman Dave Loebsack (D-IA), and Congressman Joe Kennedy III (D-MA) released the following statement on the mental health bill, H.R. 2646 as amended, being considered this week before the House Energy & Commerce Committee: “We are pleased that the mental health bill under consideration in Committee includes many of the provisions Democrats offered to make the legislation more meaningful for patients and families. While this legislation is a step forward, we have much more work to do on our path to comprehensive reform, and we look forward to continuing to work with our colleagues to ensure we are providing the necessary resources needed to reform the entire spectrum of care.” In February 2016, Reps. Green, DeGette, Matsui, Tonko, Loebsack, and Kennedy introduced H.R. 4435, the Comprehensive Behavioral Health Reform and Recovery Act of 2016, which put forth solutions for increasing investments in services and resources across the entire spectrum of mental health care, and reflected policy priorities put forth by Democratic members during ongoing efforts this Congress. Many of the provisions included in H.R. 4435 were included in the amendment in the nature of a substitute. ### CONTACT: Rep. Gene Green – Carlos Paz (202) 225-8620 Rep. Diana DeGette – Lynne Weil (202) 225-4431 Rep. Doris Matsui – Laurent Dart (202) 225-7163 Rep. Paul Tonko – Sean Magers (202) 225-5076 Rep. Dave Loebsack – Joe Hand (202) 225-6576 Rep. Joe Kennedy III – Emily Kaufman (617) 332-3333
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC — On Tuesday, Congressman Gene Green (TX-29), a senior Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement in response to the D.C. Circuit’s ruling on the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) Open Internet Rule. “The court’s ruling today highlights what I have been saying for years — that Congress must act and end the ambiguity in our nation’s telecommunications laws. While I expect this ruling to be appealed to the Supreme Court, Congress needs to take this opportunity and work on bipartisan legislation that will protect American consumers and spur competition, innovation, and broadband investment in the years to come.” ###
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – With last night’s Senate passage of the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act (PIPES Act)– bipartisan legislation to strengthen pipeline safety, clarify safety oversight efforts, and provide greater regulatory certainty in the transportation of energy commodities – the four-year reauthorization of the federal pipeline safety program now heads to the President to be signed into law. In the House, the work of negotiating the final measure (House amendment to S. 2276) was spearheaded by leaders of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the Energy and Commerce Committee. The House unanimously passed the bill last week. “The United States has the most expansive network of energy pipelines in the world, and it powers nearly every facet of our daily activities,” said Rep. Gene Green, Senior Democratic Member of the Energy & Power Subcommittee. “This important legislation puts in place safeguards for workers and communities across the State of Texas and our nation, so that pipelines remain a safe way to transport natural gas and hazardous liquids.” The PIPES Act of 2016 ensures that the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) finishes out the 2011 Act requirements; reforms PHMSA to be a more dynamic, data-driven regulator; and provides regulatory certainty for citizens, the safety community, and the industry. “I am particularly pleased the legislation includes two provisions that protect Houstonians’ safety. First, the section of workforce management gives PHMSA the flexibility to hire field inspectors when shortfalls occur,” said Rep. Gene Green. “Second, the Emergency Order Authority gives the Department the ability to respond quickly in emergency situations. Our goal is always to prevent accidents by thorough inspections, but in case of an accident we are able to act without delay.” Click here for a more detailed fact sheet about the PIPES Act. Video of Pipeline Safety Bill to Be Signed into Law - Bipartisan legislation strengthens pipeline safety ### Statement of Congressman Gene Green House Floor S. 2278 – PIPES Act June 8, 2016 Good afternoon. According to the Congressional Research Service (CRS), the United States has more the 2.9 million miles of pipelines in our vast network. According to the Texas Pipeline Association, Texas has more than 320,000 miles of intrastate pipelines. As a life-long Houstonian, there has never been a time in my life when I haven’t lived near a pipeline easement. Needless to say, in Texas, we know pipelines but we also know about the importance of safety. Every day, industry moves millions of gallons or cubic feet of domestically produced or refined product without any problems. Since 2005, the United States has seen a general decline in the number of pipeline releases or accidents that result in environmental damage or personal injury. We understand that the compounds moved via pipeline pose a risk and we must effectively manage and mitigate that risk to protect our citizens and environment. Today, I think we are taking another step in the right direction. The bill before the House today is a good bill that attempts to lay down concrete rules of the road for the next five years. For the sake of our constituencies, we need to pass this bipartisan bill in a bipartisan way. I would like to voice my support for this bill and ask that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle do the same. Four years ago, we gave PHMSA a job to do. While some of their work has been completed, there is more work to do. That is why this bill directs PHMSA to prioritize rulemaking and complete the work before them. We should not continue to add requirements to PHMSA’s plate. We should allow PHMSA the time and most importantly, give them the resources required, to finish a very important job. I would like to express support for the PHMSA workforce management language. We need inspectors in the field, working closely with their industry partners to avoid another emergency situation. In my opinion, robust inspection is the best option available for everyone involved. If we reach the enforcement stage that means something has gone wrong and we are too late. Industry, PHMSA, and workers support this provision. The second provision I’d like to support is the Emergency Authority for PHMSA. While this provision may not be perfect, it represents a strong balance between enforcement and review. It’s important to keep in mind, this is emergency authority. Unfortunately, when there is an incident involving a pipeline, we need to act with speed, efficiency and resolve. I want our executive agencies on the scene ensuring we are protecting the people and the environment. We must ensure that people have confidence in the pipeline system and effective crisis-management will help build that belief. I appreciate the hard-work that went into crafting this provision, compromise is not easy, so I want to thank both sides for drafting these provisions. I know there is more work ahead but I look forward to supporting the current bill. I yield back. ###
06.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congress has taken the final step to send the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act to the president’s desk for signature into law. The bill went to the Senate floor last night by unanimous consent and passed on a voice vote. Senate passage follows the House’s passage of the same bill by a margin of 403-12 on May 24. “Congress has worked on reforming TSCA for over a decade, and I have personally been working on fixing the statute since 2008. These important reforms will modernize our nation’s outdated chemical safety law and protect Americans from harmful toxic substances,” said Rep. Gene Green. "This soon-to-be-law will enhance protections for the workers in our chemical plants, the fenceline communities next to the plants, and benefit chemical manufacturers who will have certainty in a true, nationwide market." The legislation received strong bipartisan, bicameral support as well as support from industry, manufacturers, and environmental and public health organizations. The most notable improvements in the bill are: Replacing current TSCA’s burdensome safety standard with a pure, health-based standard. Explicitly requiring the protection of vulnerable populations, like children, pregnant women, and workers at chemical facilities. Requiring a safety finding before new chemicals are allowed to go to market. Giving EPA new authority to order testing and ensure chemicals are safe, with a focus on the most risky chemicals. "This legislation is a win-win for my district in East Houston and Harris County, Texas, home to one of the largest collection of chemical facilities in the country," said Congressman Gene Green. ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) spoke today on the House Floor in support of the Toxic Substance Control (TSCA) Modernization Act, a bill to modernize outdated legislation to protect Americans from toxic substances. The House's passing of today's bipartisan, bicameral legislation, by a margin of 403-12, will overhaul our nation’s broken chemical safety law for the first time since 1976 by directly addressing TSCA’s fundamental flaws The most notable improvements in the bill are: Replacing current TSCA’s burdensome safety standard with a pure, health-based standard. Explicitly requiring the protection of vulnerable populations, like children, pregnant women, and workers at chemical facilities. Requiring a safety finding before new chemicals are allowed to go to market. Giving EPA new authority to order testing and ensure chemicals are safe, with a focus on the most risky chemicals. "This legislation is a win-win for my district in East Houston and Harris County, Texas, home to one of the largest collection of chemical facilities in the country," said Congressman Gene Green. "The reforms contained in this proposal will enhance protections for the workers in our chemical plants, the fenceline communities next to the plants, and benefit chemical manufacturers who will have certainty in a true, nationwide market." ### Floor Statement by Rep. Gene Green House Amendment to Senate Amendment to H.R. 2576 – the TSCA Modernization Act May 24, 2016 "Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the amendment to H.R. 2576, the TSCA Modernization Act. It's an abbreviation for the Toxic Substances Control Act. "This bipartisan, bicameral legislation will reform our nation’s broken chemical safety law for the first time since 1976 and directly addresses TSCA’s fundamental flaws. "This legislation is a win-win for my district in Eastside Houston and eastern Harris County, Texas, home to one of the largest collection of chemical facilities in the country. The reforms contained in this proposal will enhance protections for the workers in our chemical plants, the fenceline communities next to the plants, and benefit chemical manufacturers who will have certainty in a true, nationwide market. "Congress has worked on reforming TSCA for over a decade, and I have personally been working on fixing the statute since 2008. Though not perfect, the proposal before the House today is, in the words of the Obama Administration, 'a clear improvement over current TSCA and represents a historic advancement for both chemical safety and environmental law.' "Let me quote from the United Steel Workers, 'overall the amendments of H.R. 2576, the TSCA Modernization Act, do not result in a bill they would have written. However, there are significant improvements over the current law including a fix of the 1991 “asbestos decision” that crippled the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) ability to act. Now EPA must use a health-only standard to evaluate chemicals and reserve cost-benefit analysis for determining restrictions of harmful chemicals.' "Additionally, the bill includes increased EPA authority to review chemicals, a fee structure to fund the program, and protection of vulnerable populations including workers. "Again that’s from the United Steelworkers. "The most notable improvements in the bill are replacing current TSCA’s burdensome safety standard with a pure, health-based standard. Explicitly requiring the protection of vulnerable populations, like children, pregnant women, and workers at the plants. Requiring a safety finding before new chemicals are allowed to go to market. Giving EPA new authority to order testing and ensure chemicals are safe, with a focus on the most risky chemicals. "This legislation responds to the concerns of industry to provide regulatory certainty for job creators throughout our economy. And has the support of the Environmental Defense Fund, the Humane Society, the March of Dimes, and the National Wildlife Federation. And along with the Machinist Union and Building Trades. "I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in supporting this amendment and help pass the first major environmental legislation in a quarter century. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and I yield back the balance of my time." ###
04.19.2016	WASHINGTON— On Tuesday, April 19, 2016, Congressmen Gene Green (TX-29) and Al Green (TX-09) in a letter to President Obama formally requested that he issue a disaster declaration for Harris County and the Houston area due to the extensive flooding, loss of life, and loss of power the area has experienced. On April 18, 2016, Governor Greg Abbott formally declared a state of emergency in the Houston area as well as other areas. Congressman Gene Green said, “Houston and Harris County have experienced heavy rain and thunderstorms over the past several days, leaving over 120,000 residents without power and closing schools and businesses in the area. First responders have assisted with over 1,200 water rescues in Harris County alone. This is a state of emergency, and we are calling on the President to make an official declaration so that Houston area residents and their families can get the assistance they need quickly.�? In the letter, the Congressmen specifically argued that federal relief efforts are urgently needed because of the risk of increased homelessness and damage to small businesses. Additionally, they requested that the filing deadline for federal income tax returns be extended to assist individuals who were unable to file their taxes on April 18, 2016 because of the extreme inclement weather. “I applaud Governor Greg Abbott for his appropriate and expeditious declaration of a state of emergency in the Houston area as well as other areas. Houstonians as well as Texans across the state have been seriously affected, experienced significant damage to their property, and have been disrupted in their efforts to timely file their federal income taxes. I strongly encourage President Obama to issue a disaster declaration, see that all necessary relief efforts and initiatives are directed to the area, and that the filing deadline for federal income tax returns is extended for those affected by this catastrophic weather,�? Congressman Al Green said. “I stand ready to assist my constituents and will continue to monitor this situation and its aftermath, particularly its effect on the people most in need.�? ###
04.19.2016	HOUSTON – Congressman Gene Green announces new grant awards from the Department of Health and Human Services for two Community Health Centers in the 29th Congressional District of Texas: Houston Community Health Centers Inc., and Pasadena Health Center. This Health Center Cluster grant was separately awarded to each center, for a combined $2.54 million dollars to continue providing access to comprehensive, quality health care. Green said, “Community health centers are a crucial part of our health care safety net and help provide families access to reliable, affordable health care. This is especially important in the 29th District where we have an underserved community. I am pleased to announce that additional funding has been awarded to these health centers, which provide care to hundreds of patients in our community every week.” Since the Health Centers Program began, more than 1,300 federally qualified health centers operate approximately 9,000 sites in all 50 states and U.S. territories. Health centers represent the nation’s largest primary care system, serving as the medical home for 23 million patients each year, with the mission of providing timely, comprehensive care. Houston Community Health Centers Inc. provides primary care, pediatric, prenatal, mental health and dental services in the Houston area in both English and Spanish. Pasadena Health Center provides similar services, specializing in OB/ GYN, pediatric care, counseling services, and attention to senior citizens for the underserved patients of the Pasadena community. ###
04.14.2016	HOUSTON— Nearly 100 volunteers spent their Saturday picking up trash and litter in the North Channel area during Congressman Gene Green’s annual Community Clean-up. Part of Great American Cleanup and Keep Houston Beautiful Day, the event drew volunteers from 21 organizations and groups, including three local high schools, the mayor’s office, the North Channel Area Chamber of Commerce, and the Houston Police Department Northeast Division. Sue Blackburn—an annual volunteer and active member of the Wood Shadows I Civic Club— said, "I look forward to this event every year. It is a time when people from all over our area come together for one purpose: removing as much litter as possible from our area. It is especially heartwarming to me to see these young people give up part of their weekend to improve our community. We had a little girl approximately five years old who showed up with her mother. She went out with her mother and picked up litter just like the adults. That is a wonderful way to instill community spirit at a very young age. Thank you to Congressman Green for sponsoring this event. It is exactly what every neighborhood needs." Community volunteers spent time along the I-10 East Freeway corridor, Greens Bayou, and neighborhoods within the North Channel Area, and planted trees at Herman Brown Park North Shore Nature Walk. Green said, “Each year, volunteers from local schools and neighborhoods, organizations, churches, and businesses donate their time in this community effort to banish litter and trash from area parks, schools, streets, and sidewalks. It’s important work, and it brings individuals from different backgrounds and sectors together as one community.” Community Clean-up participants included: The City of Houston – Mayor Sylvester Turner’s Office, Department of Neighborhoods, Solid Waste Department, Houston Police Department-Northeast Division, Constable Chris Diaz, Councilman Robert Gallegos, North Channel Area Chamber of Commerce, Anheuser – Busch, North Shore High School, Galena Park High School, Furr High School, Cobb 6th Grade Campus, The Rhodes School, North East Partners In Power, North Shore Community Fellowship of Faith, Northeast Houston Advisory Council, Wood Shadows I Neighborhood, Wood Shadows II Civic Club, E.T.C.P. Civic Association, Holiday Forest Civic Club, Woods Bayou Neighborhood. ###
04.04.2016	WASHINGTON – On Monday, the United States Supreme Court, in a unanimous decision, ruled to uphold the ‘one-person, one-vote standard,’ disputed in Evenwel v. Abbott. Congressman Gene Green released the following statement in response: “Our nation’s ‘one-person, one-vote’ principle is at the very heart of American democracy. The Founding Fathers understood this and enshrined in our Constitution that congressional districts be allocated by total number of people. Today’s unanimous decision by the U.S. Supreme Court makes clear that every person living in our country deserves equal representation in Congress, regardless of race, language, or age. The fight for equal access to the ballot box is not over, however, and I will continue to push for Congress to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act and ensure that all Americans, regardless of their income or background, have an equal opportunity to vote.” ###
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, Representative Gene Green (D-TX) was presented the Congressional Public Health Leadership Award for 2015 by the Commissioned Officers Association of the United States Public Health Service (COA). Green was recognized for his leadership on public health policy and for founding the Congressional Public Health Caucus in April 2015, along with co-chair Rep. Rob Wittman (R-VA). The two are the first U.S. House Representatives to receive the award. “Public health is fundamental to a 21st Century health care system and provides huge social and economic benefits,” Green said. “Investing in public health has led to increased life expectancies, reductions in infectious and communicable diseases, swift response to emergencies, and improved health outcomes for our communities. I was happy to join Rep. Wittman to launch and lead the new bipartisan Congressional Public Health Caucus to elevate the conversation on the importance of a robust public health system.” COA is a non-profit organization founded in 1951 to represent the uniformed officers of the United States Public Health Service. Through its associated PHS Commissioned Officers Foundation for the Advancement of Public Health, it also works on behalf of public health issues such as tobacco use, obesity, and exercise as a health benefit. ###
03.14.2016	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am deeply disappointed in the inaccurately named “Common Sense Savings Act,” which would yet again cut programs for people with limited incomes and vulnerable populations, seeking to balance the budget on the backs of those most in need. The policies included in H.R. 4725 will increase the ranks of the uninsured and harm low-income families. The bill will cut Medicaid and children’s health programs by repealing a boost in the federal matching rate for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and cruelly kick low-income kids out of the Medicaid program. The enhanced match was maintained in the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, which was signed in to law last year after being voted for by an overwhelming majority of the House. This marks another attack on the Affordable Care Act, and this time, at the expense of America’s children. At the same time, the bill unduly restricting states’ ability to use health care provider taxes to help finance their Medicaid programs. Provider taxes are a critical source of revenue for every state except Alaska. Restricting states’ decision to use this revenue stream will have serious consequences for low-income families, as states will be forced to cut Medicaid to offset the loss of funds and will likely be deterred from Medicaid expansion. It yet again attempts to repeal the Prevention and Public health fund. This short-sighted policy would significantly roll back funding for preventive health measures, such as child immunizations, programs to reduce tobacco use, and efforts to prevent heart disease, stroke, and diabetes. The fund provides $16.5 billion to improve preventive health, public health quality, and overall health outcomes. Primarily through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, it funds vital initiatives like those to strengthen state and local entities’ ability to respond to infectious diseases, prevent lead poisoning among children, and reduce racial disparities in health care access and health outcomes. H.R. 4725 is a transparent effort to generate support for the fiscal year 2017 budget resolution on the House floor, and it is not worthy of our great committee. We should be using this time to strengthen Medicaid and CHIP, and to advance efforts on prevention so we can meaningfully bend the health care cost curve and improve the overall health of the American people. I am strongly opposed to the FCC setting rates for Internet broadband access. Government intrusion into how much a service should cost, particularly when there is a competitive and growing marketplace for broadband access, is not only unnecessary, but harmful to consumers and innovation. This is why I am disappointed at the failure to find an agreement on the No Rate Regulation of Broadband Internet Access Act (H.R. 2666). There is bipartisan support for rate regulation legislation that will promote innovation and broadband deployment and ensure that our country continues to be the world leader in the digital economy. I am hopeful that an agreement will be found before tomorrow morning that I can support. This issue is too important to fail over partisan bickering. Thank you and I yield back the balance of my time.
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, Representative Gene Green (TX-29), Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, introduced H.R. 4588, the Incentivizing Medicaid Expansion Act, which mirrors President Obama’s 2017 budget request to give all states three years of full federal funding when they expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). This bill coincides with Wednesday’s Health Subcommittee hearing to review the Health and Human Services Fiscal Year 2017 budget. “Expanding Medicaid is as much of a good deal for states as it is for patients. In our District alone, 55,000 residents would gain coverage if Texas expanded Medicaid, and 1 million people would gain coverage state wide,” Green said. “Under the ACA, this would happen at minimal cost to the state with the federal government financing 100 percent of expansion costs for the first three years and after that, no less than 90 percent on a permanent basis. Rather than letting the 90 percent match rate take effect in 2017 as originally written into the ACA, this bill would allow all states who expand now or in the future to receive 100 percent backing for 3 years from the date of expansion.” According to a report by the National Public Radio (NPR), the decision by Texas to reject expansion of Medicaid will cost the state an estimated $100 billion in federal dollars over a decade. At the same time its hospitals are baring a $5.5 billion annual cost for treating uninsured patients. Those uncompensated costs in turn are being covered by taxes and insurance premiums paid by the state's businesses and residents, who are also footing the bill for expanding Medicaid in states that agreed to accept federal funds to offer coverage to nearly all low-income adults. Green said, “This proposal should put to rest the claims of expansion opponents that the federal government won’t sustain an enhanced match. Rather than shrink the match, it would increase it for states that expanded after 2014 or expand in the future, treating these states the same as those that expanded from the outset.” Read the bill text here. ### Original cosponsors of the bill include: Diana DeGette (CO-01), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Paul Tonko (NY-20), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Tony Cardenas (CA-29), Yvette Clarke (NY-09), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Ben Ray Lujan (NM-03), Joe Kennedy (MA-04), Lois Capps (CA-24), Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Bobby Rush (IL-01), John Sarbanes (MD-03), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Terri Sewell (AL-07), Hank Johnson (GA-04).
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, Representative Gene Green (TX-29), Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, introduced H.R. 4588, the Incentivizing Medicaid Expansion Act, which mirrors President Obama’s 2017 budget request to give all states three years of full federal funding when they expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). This bill coincides with Wednesday’s Health Subcommittee hearing to review the Health and Human Services Fiscal Year 2017 budget. “Expanding Medicaid is as much of a good deal for states as it is for patients. In our District alone, 55,000 residents would gain coverage if Texas expanded Medicaid, and 1 million people would gain coverage state wide,” Green said. “Under the ACA, this would happen at minimal cost to the state with the federal government financing 100 percent of expansion costs for the first three years and after that, no less than 90 percent on a permanent basis. Rather than letting the 90 percent match rate take effect in 2017 as originally written into the ACA, this bill would allow all states who expand now or in the future to receive 100 percent backing for 3 years from the date of expansion.” According to a report by the National Public Radio (NPR), the decision by Texas to reject expansion of Medicaid will cost the state an estimated $100 billion in federal dollars over a decade. At the same time its hospitals are baring a $5.5 billion annual cost for treating uninsured patients. Those uncompensated costs in turn are being covered by taxes and insurance premiums paid by the state's businesses and residents, who are also footing the bill for expanding Medicaid in states that agreed to accept federal funds to offer coverage to nearly all low-income adults. Green said, “This proposal should put to rest the claims of expansion opponents that the federal government won’t sustain an enhanced match. Rather than shrink the match, it would increase it for states that expanded after 2014 or expand in the future, treating these states the same as those that expanded from the outset.” Read the bill text here. ### Original cosponsors of the bill include: Diana DeGette (CO-01), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Paul Tonko (NY-20), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Tony Cardenas (CA-29), Yvette Clarke (NY-09), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Ben Ray Lujan (NM-03), Joe Kennedy (MA-04), Lois Capps (CA-24), Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Bobby Rush (IL-01), John Sarbanes (MD-03), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Terri Sewell (AL-07), Hank Johnson (GA-04).
02.10.2016	Mr. Speaker, I rise to highlight the success of the Affordable Care Act. Last month marked the end of the third open enrollment period for the health exchanges created by the Affordable Care Act. The numbers are in, and once again, millions of Americans signed up for quality, affordable health care coverage. In total, more than 12.7 million Americans selected plans through the health insurance marketplaces – 4 million or 42 percent of whom are new customers this year. In addition to bending the cost curve, these enrollment numbers are further evidence that the Affordable Care Act is working. People want coverage and thanks to the ACA, millions can now have the security of knowing they won’t go bankrupt if they get sick or in an accident, can’t be denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition and have access to preventative and primary care services at little to no out-of-pocket cost. Unfortunately, the callous, politically motivated, and financially unsound decision of states to forfeit federal funds and refuse to expand Medicaid for low-income adults leaves millions without coverage. In the 29th District of Texas, 55,000 residents fall in the expansion gap and thus, have no health insurance. It is time for Texas and other holdout states to do the right thing and recognize that health care is not a privilege but a right. The Affordable Care Act is here to stay. I hope Congress will finally move past futile repeal attempts and start talking about how to make the Affordable Care Act work even better for the American people. I stand ready and eager to work with my colleagues on this critically important issue. Thank you and I yield back.
02.04.2016	HOUSTON – Congressman Gene Green invites Houston-area students and parents to his Paying for College Workshop on Monday, February 8th at 7:00 PM at Aldine Senior High School. During this free seminar, a representative from The Sallie Mae Fund, Sergio Gonzalez, will present information about how to apply for scholarships and financial aid, and important factors to consider when choosing a school. Representatives from local colleges and universities will be present with information about their institutions and will be available to speak to students one-on-one. Additionally, several schools will award scholarships onsite to attending high school seniors. “Financial barriers should never prevent our students from pursuing higher education and achieving their goals,” Green said. “Over the 14 years we have hosted this event, we have heard back from our community that the Workshop is an effective resources in equipping families with the knowledge and resources they need to make college affordable. Many students have been the beneficiaries of scholarships during the event, which is just one more resource we hope to empower them with. Even with all the resources out there, we understand there are still challenges for working families, especially those with first generation college students. That’s why we will continue to work to expand the Pell Grant program, and to make college a reality for our students here at home.” Confirmed colleges include: University of Houston, UH-Downtown, Texas Southern University, Houston Community College, Everest Institute, Rice University, San Jacinto College, and Lone Star College. WHAT: Paying for College Workshop WHEN: Monday, February 8, 2016, 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. WHERE: Aldine Senior High School, Auditorium, 11101 Airline Drive Houston, TX 77037 ###
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON—Following the World Health Organization’s declaration of the Zika virus—which is transmitted by mosquitos and may cause birth defects—as a public health emergency, Rep. Gene Green (D-TX-29) joined a bipartisan group of House Energy and Commerce Committee leaders in reaching out to U.S. government health experts seeking more information. The leaders wrote letters requesting immediate briefings from Dr. Thomas Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); Dr. Nicole Lurie, Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS); and Dr. Anthony Fauci, Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Green said, “Houston is a gateway to Central and South America and because of this, we have a unique role and interest in confronting threats like the Zika virus. Ensuring that our region and nation are prepared for these major public health threats is a top priority of mine. This is one of the reasons I have long fought for new legislation and increased funding for an array of federal measures aimed at prevention and increased preparedness for serious communicable diseases. However, there is still more to be done. I will continue working with my colleagues in the House, and through our newly established Public Health Caucus, to bolster our federal preparedness so that we continue to lead the world in disease prevention and treatment.” Congressman Green has been a long-time leader in Congress on disease prevention and readiness. As a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, he has played a critical role in crafting some of the most important legislation on these topics in recent years, including: the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act, which promotes federal readiness for an array of public health emergencies, and the Prevention and Public Health Fund within the Affordable Care Act, which strengthens our nation’s public health posture. He has also been a champion for increased funding for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the National Institutes of Health (NIH). ###
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Energy & Commerce Health Subcommittee, along with five members of the Committee, introduced the Comprehensive Behavioral Health Reform and Recovery Act of 2016. The bill increases investments in services and resources across the entire spectrum of mental health care, reflecting policy priorities put forth by Democratic members during ongoing Health Subcommittee efforts this Congress. “It is long past time for Congress to craft policies for the behavioral health system that parallel our approach to physical illnesses – policies that address prevention as well as crisis care,” said the bill’s authors. “Any efforts at mental health care reform must transform our system from the ground up, and this legislation provides a pivotal foundation from which to build as mental health reform discussions continue in Congress.” Bill authors highlight specific provisions of the comprehensive legislation: "We've worked hard to pull all of the best ideas into one, non-partisan, comprehensive package. Reforming the mental and behavioral health systems must be done in a way that best supports Americans and families touched by mental and behavioral health issues," said Congressman Green. "This bill includes key provisions to update the use of Medicaid for care and removes barriers to home and community based mental health services. It represents our best ideas, and we are eager to kick start the discussion and move the process forward toward enacting a strong, comprehensive and transformative law." “There is broad consensus that our mental health system needs substantial reforms to better serve patients," said Congresswoman DeGette. "I am proud to be part of a strong, comprehensive effort to further the discussion about how we make these needed reforms, and I am especially happy that the Comprehensive Behavioral Health Reform and Recovery Act supports more preventive and community-based care.” “It is our shared goal that this legislation advances a larger discussion in Congress and serves as a platform for comprehensive mental health reform,” said Congresswoman Matsui. “We have worked tirelessly to find compromises that outline a path to reform that provides resources for prevention, as well as crisis care, so that patients have the support they need at whatever stage they are in their illness. I’m particularly pleased that this package contains provisions that I have long advocated for, from clarifying what can and cannot be shared under HIPAA law, to expanding the Excellence in Mental Health demonstration to ensure that more states have an opportunity to benefit from high quality, evidenced-based, and community-driven mental health care.” "Mental health should be treated no differently than physical health. If your arm is broken, it is covered and you see a doctor. The same should be true with mental illness,” said Congressman Tonko. “Today's announcement includes a number of thoughtful, bipartisan ideas that achieve this end. Some of the many ideas I worked hardest to include are a bed registry program, repealing the 190-day lifetime cap for Medicare patients on psychiatric hospital stays, the TREAT Act, grants to help those with mental illness better re-enter society and including occupational therapists in our treatment of mental health well-being. I commend my colleagues for a sustained and tireless focus on these issues and hope we can advance these solutions in a timely manner." “As someone whose mother struggled with mental health issues, I have experienced firsthand the necessity of timely and proper care,” said Congressman Loebsack. “I have long advocated for improving coordination between physical care and mental health care, so I am pleased that this package contains provisions I have championed to improve primary and mental health care integration. It is far past time that we start treating mental health for what it is – a medical condition affecting the brain that deserves the same level of treatment as any other condition.” “Failure to invest in our mental health system’s full continuum of care has allowed too many Americans to fall through the cracks and suffer in silence,” said Congressman Kennedy. “Whether through meaningful reform to Medicaid's mental health coverage or by holding insurers accountable for violations of parity laws, this legislation will fill many of the gaps that have plagued our broken system for too long. With the support of our colleagues, we can pass this bill and ensure patients have access to the care and treatment they deserve.” For a Section-by-Section Click Here For the Text of the Legislation Click Here For a One-Pager on the Legislation Click Here ###
01.27.2016	HOUSTON—In December the House of Representatives approved, and the President signed, a 6-year transportation bill that included a key provision for small car manufacturers introduced by Rep. Gene Green (D-TX-29). The Low Volume Motor Vehicle Act provision, allows replica car companies, like DeLorean located in the 29th Congressional District, to sell new assembled vehicles rather than individual car parts for refurbishment on existing vehicles. Shortly after the bill was signed into law, DeLorean Motor Company announced that it is “going back to the future and into production,” for the first time in 35 years. Production is expected to create at least 40 new full-time jobs in the 29th District. “Our bill ensures that Houston companies like DeLorean are not hindered from selling their cars by antiquated federal legislation to hobbyists and enthusiasts who love classic cars. I’m proud to see an iconic Houston brand like DeLorean going back into production thanks to our bill and look forward to exciting times ahead at DeLorean as we go back to the future.” Before the law passed, these “kit cars” were sold without the engine or transmission being installed or simply not produced at all since federal regulators determined that installing the powertrain is the step that makes it a “motor vehicle” and subjects the manufacturer to overly burdensome regulations meant for large car companies like Ford or General Motors. WHAT: Congressman Green Tour DeLorean Motor Company in Humble WHEN: Thursday, January 27, 2016, 8:30 – 9:00 AM / Tour of DeLorean Motor Company / 9:00 – 9:30 AM, Roundtable discussion WHERE: DeLorean Motor Company / 15023 Eddie Drive Humble, TX 77396 ###
01.19.2016	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday the United States Supreme Court announced that it will consider Texas v. United States, a lawsuit against the President’s executive action on the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) and expand the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) programs. Congressman Gene Green released the following response: “Comprehensive immigration reform is long overdue. It is the job of Congress to come to a sensible solution that will fix our broken immigration system and provide a tough, but fair path to legalization and citizenship for the tens of thousands of mixed-status families in Houston and Harris County and throughout our country. “Through DAPA, the President is enforcing existing law passed by Congress that focuses resources where they are needed most – towards violent criminals and threats to public safety. DAPA is a commonsense, lawful exercise of executive discretion that has been used by Democratic and Republican Administrations for the past six decades. In December, I was part of a congressional Amicus Brief to the Supreme Court in support of DAPA. “I have and continue to advocate for comprehensive reform in Congress that reflects the best traditions and history of our great state and nation as a country of immigrants who came to America seeking a better life for themselves and their family. The failure to pass reform in Congress has left too many in our community living in limbo, in fear of deportation, with no pathway to achieve the American Dream.” ###
01.15.2016	HOUSTON – On Friday, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) approved a request by METRO to use projected cost savings to improve nearby pedestrian areas. The updates will be made in the North and Southeast Corridor of Houston METRO’s Light Rail System. Rep. Gene Green who supported and advocated on behalf of the project said, “Metro has done a great job saving taxpayer dollars. Rather than appropriate new money, I support using the cost savings for additional community improvements. This funding will help make our city safer for children and families, and all commuters using the Light Rail System.” The provisionally approved request includes: Sidewalk and shelter improvements: North Corridor - $1.3M, Southeast Corridor - $2M Bike parking and lockers: North Corridor, $500K, Southeast Corridor - $500K Crossing gates: Southeast Corridor - $500K ###
01.13.2016	"This week, the United States Senate moved to consider H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act. The bill was passed out of the House of Representatives on a bipartisan vote which included the entire political spectrum. There has been some misinformation about the content of the bill, so I’d like to take a moment and clarify the issue. "In September, the President answered calls to reform our national refugee policy and increase the rate of acceptance and the number of refugees from Syria and Iraq. The President, recognizing that many of those seeking protection were women and children, authorized the acceptance of an additional 10,000 refugees in 2016. I support the President’s actions because I believe, as a nation of immigrants and refugees, we have a historic commitment to honor. As the guarantor of freedom and democracy, the United States has a humanitarian responsibility to those seeking shelter within our borders. "After the terrorist attacks which took place in Paris, I voted for the SAFE Act to address national security shortcomings in our refugee policy. The legislation would require the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Director of National Intelligence (DNI), and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to certify that each individual present in Syria and Iraq from 2011 forward received a security threat screening before admission to the United States. Currently, there are approximately six federal agencies involved in screening individuals traveling from Syria and Iraq to the United States. After a careful review of the legislation and hearing from national security leaders and White House officials in a classified briefing, it was my view that an additional layer of certification would not prohibit refugees from entering our country or create significant new delays to a process that currently takes 18-24 months.​ "In the wake of the atrocities and violence in Paris, and more recently, the individuals arrested in California and Houston, I continue to support additional coordination and resources for our federal agencies to continue safeguarding our citizens. As the pace of refugee admission increases, these protocols and processes will remain an important safety measures moving forward."
12.09.2015	Thank you to everyone who was able to participate in our most recent telephone town hall, and asked questions. Although we weren’t able to get to all the questions, we got through a lot and responded to everyone that left a voicemail. Many of you participated in our poll questions, which helped us get an idea where you stand on an issue. You can read the poll questions and see the results below.
11.23.2015	HOUSTON – On Saturday, November 21st, Congressman Gene Green was presented the Corazón Latino Award from LULAC Council 4967. The Corazón Latino, unique to the Houston chapter, is awarded annually to a non-Hispanic with outstanding dedication to the Hispanic community. Congressman Green is the second person to ever receive the honor. “I am humbled to receive this award from LULAC. We have been working together for many, many years. From education and health, to voting and civil rights, LULAC is dedicated to improving the lives of Hispanics. It is an honor to work with council members, and partner with them to bring more opportunities to our area.” Founded in 1929, LULAC is the oldest Hispanic civil rights organization in the United States. Today, with over 900 councils nationwide, it continues to lead the charge in creating more opportunities for Hispanics with citizenship awareness sessions, sponsoring health fairs and tutorial programs, and raising scholarship money for the LULAC National Scholarship Fund. ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, the House of Representatives voted to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank (“Ex-Im Bank”) of the United States. The vote comes four months after the Ex-Im Bank’s charter expired on June 30. The failure to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank has resulted in lost business and job losses for American employers and the national economy. Today’s vote came as a result of a discharge petition signed by 218 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives to require the full House to consider legislation to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank through 2019. Rep. Green signed the discharge petition earlier this month and voted in support of today’s legislation. “Across the country, big and small businesses rely on backing from Ex-Im to keep their companies running,” Green said. “Texas is the largest beneficiary, with over 1,500 Texas-based companies last year receiving a loan guarantee, insurance policy, or loan to export products and services overseas. Ex-Im supports international commerce and domestic jobs at zero cost to American taxpayers.” Since 2009, Ex-Im programs have supported about $217 billion in U.S. exports and 1.3 million private-sector jobs. Last fiscal year alone, Ex-Im supported an estimated $27.5 billion in exports and 164,000 jobs. “We can’t afford to continue to let politics jeopardize American companies and jobs. Ex-Im has been reauthorized for decades without controversy because support is so widespread among stakeholders.” ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, the House of Representatives approved H.R. 3819, the Surface Transportation Extension Act, to temporarily extend the authorization for federal highway and transit programs through November 20, 2015. This short-term bill maintains the status quo until the 6-year reauthorization bill that was recently passed out of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee can be considered. Congressman Gene Green released the following statement: “This short-term extension is the next step toward a more permanent solution. It provides a little breathing room for the House to pass a bigger bill before November 20th. Although we’ve heard this rhetoric before, this time Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio showed leadership in working across party lines to pass a long-term, comprehensive highway reauthorization bill out of their committee. While the long-term bill only funds the first three years of projects, the legislation is far better than the three month extensions we’ve operated under in previous years. Constructing infrastructure requires long-range planning, long-lead materials and long-term contracts. None of this can be effectively accomplished without a multi-year authorization. I support the current effort with the hope that Congress will finish the job.” ###
10.27.2015	HOUSTON – On Saturday, November 14, Congressman Gene Green will host a Community Health and Wellness Fair at the Moody Park Community Center, beginning at 10 a.m. Event partners include The City of Houston, Houston Parks & Recreation Department, Texas Children’s Health Plan, The Center for Children and Women, Texas Children’s Hospital, Walgreens, Vecino Health Centers, and St. Hope Foundation. During the event, healthcare professionals will be available to administer flu shots and conduct dental exams and screenings for: glucose, blood pressure, cholesterol, and body mass index. All services will be free to participants. “We’re glad to be partnering with these local organizations to bring free health services to our community,” Green said. “A simple flu shot can prevent individuals and families from serious illness down the road.” The Community Health and Wellness Fair is being held in conjunction with the Houston Parks & Recreation Department’s “Family Fun Day”. There will be games, music, and educational activities for the entire family. WHAT: Community Health and Wellness Fair WHEN: Saturday, November 14, 2015, 10:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. WHERE: Moody Park Community Center, 3725 Fulton Street, Houston, TX 77009 ###
10.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Monday, the United States and 11 Asia-Pacific countries announced an agreement on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). The agreement is now subject to Congressional approval. Congressman Gene Green released the following statement in response: “Support for any trade agreement needs to be measured by how many good paying, middle class jobs it will bring the United States, including Houston and Harris County. Unfortunately, I do not believe this agreement on TPP will protect and expand middle class jobs in the 29th District. If anything, TPP will further erode our nation’s manufacturing base and lead to the kinds of job losses caused by NAFTA and our current trade agreement with China. “We are especially concerned with the failure to address currency manipulation. This is an on-going problem and we should not be making free trade agreements with countries that continue to artificially lower their currency and harm America’s working families.” ###
09.29.2015	HOUSTON – Congressman Gene Green congratulates North Houston Early College High School for excelling academically and in turn being recognized by the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program in 2015. The North Houston Early College High School, located at 99 Lyerly Street in Houston, is one of 335 schools being recognized this year. “Education is the foundation for our children’s’ future and the cornerstone of our communities,” Green said. “The educators, students, and families in these schools make these achievements possible with hard work and dedication. Schools like the North Houston Early College High School are setting an example and raising the bar, and helping prepare student for a brighter future ahead.” All of the schools honored this year will be invited to a ceremony in November in Washington D.C. and be presented with an award plaque and a flag to hang in their schools to display the academic achievements they have accomplished. ###
09.28.2015	HOUSTON – Congressman Gene Green invites Houston-area students and parents to his Paying for College Workshop on Monday, October 5 at 7:00 p.m. at Stephen F. Austin High School. During this free seminar, a representative from The Sallie Mae Fund will present information about how to apply for scholarships and financial aid, and important factors to consider when choosing a college or university. “Financial barriers should never prevent our students from pursuing higher education and achieving their goals,” Green said. “With tuition and student debt at an all-time high, we hope this seminar serves as a useful tool by informing students about their options and how to make their education more affordable, as well as how to make the smart financial choices.” Representatives from U.S. Service Academies and local colleges will be present with information about their institutions and to answer questions. Confirmed colleges include: University of Houston, University of Houston Downtown, Texas Southern University, Rice University, Houston Community College, San Jacinto College, Everest Institute, and Lone Star College. WHAT: Paying for College Workshop WHEN: Monday, October 5, 2015; 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. WHERE: Stephen F. Austin High School – HISD; 1700 Dumble Street, Houston, TX 77023 ###
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Thursday, the House Energy and Commerce Committee held a mark-up of H.R. 702, which would lift the nearly 40-year-old ban on crude oil exports. Several amendments were adopted in Committee, including Rep. Gene Green’s (D-TX) Savings Provision. The provision would grant authority to the President of the United States to halt exports in cases where it is not in our nation’s best interest or poses a risk to national or economic security. Green said, “We’ve been eager to work on this legislation for months, and come to a solution that works. While this is still a work in progress, we’re pleased with the strides we’ve made. Any legislation that passes out of the House needs to be bipartisan and protect American jobs and families. Not only do we need the Presidential protections we provided today, we need to have a process established at the Department of Commerce and provide opportunity for our maritime community.” H.R. 702, introduced by Texas Reps. Joe Barton (R-TX) and Henry Cuellar (D-TX), is slated to be reviewed by the full House of Representatives this fall. ###
09.15.2015	HOUSTON – Congressman Gene Green announces new grant awards from the Department of Health and Human Services for three Community Health Centers in the 29th Congressional District of Texas: El Centro de Corazon, Houston Community Health Centers Inc., and Pasadena Health Center. This Affordable Care Act funding grant, titled Expanded Services Award, was separately awarded to each center for more than $250,000 to expand services and increase access to comprehensive, quality health care. Green said, “Community health centers are a vital part of our health care safety net and help families that have difficulty finding reliable, affordable health care. This is especially important in the 29th District where we have an underserved community. These health centers provide care to hundreds of patients in need every week, and I am pleased to announce additional funding has been awarded.” Since the Health Centers Program began, more than 1,300 federally qualified health centers operate approximately 9,000 sites in all 50 states and U.S. territories. Health centers represent the nation’s largest primary care system, serving as the medical home for 23 million patients each year, with the mission of providing timely, comprehensive care. El Centro de Corazon and Houston Community Health Centers Inc. provide primary care, pediatric, prenatal, mental health and dental services in the Houston area in both English and Spanish. Pasadena Health Center provides similar services, specializing in OB/ GYN, pediatric care, counseling services, and attention to senior citizens for the underserved patients of the Pasadena community. ###
09.09.2015	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) announced his decision to vote against the Iran Nuclear Agreement, formally known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). He released the following statement: “After weeks of careful consideration, input from constituents, and reading the agreement, I have decided not to support it. “Since the agreement was made public in July, our office has held several town hall meetings and events around the District, and received hundreds of phone calls. Across the board, constituents are saying the same thing: we need a stronger agreement, one that ensures the protection of American families and our nation’s allies. “While this is the closest we’ve come to a reasonable agreement, we cannot afford to give any concessions to a country that continues to threaten the United States, our allies, and countries around the world—we have an obligation to hold the regime accountable in every way possible. “I’m voting against the deal. We need to work together to block it so that we can negotiate a stronger agreement.” Click here to read Congressman Green’s full statement on opposition. ###
09.04.2015	HOUSTON – On Wednesday, September 2, Congressman Gene Green held his Annual Northside/Aldine Job Fair, which hosted 43 employers and more than 300 job candidates at the M.O. Campbell Educational Center. Many participants made connections with employers and began the interview process, others were offered jobs immediately. The fair was held in partnership with Workforce Solutions and Aldine Independent School District. “We had more participants at this job fair than we did at our last event in April. As long as people need work, we will continue to host these job fairs and help local businesses and organizations build the workforce right here at home,” Green said. “We’re grateful to our partners who make this event possible and help participants prepare to meet employers.” Over 40 companies and organizations participated in the event from both the public and private sector, and a variety of industries. Full-time, part-time and seasonal positions were advertised for an array of skill sets ranging from teachers to sheriff deputies to healthcare professionals. Russel Tomlin, Area Director for Workforce Solutions said, “Thanks to Congressman Gene Green and the Aldine Independent School District for their continued support of Workforce Solutions. We had another very successful hiring event at M. O. Campbell Educational Center.” ###
08.27.2015	GRAPEVINE – On Monday, Rep. Gene Green (D-TX-29) attended the National Voluntary Protection Programs Participants' Association (VPPPA) Safety & Health Conference in Grapevine, Texas. He received an award for his Congressional leadership on workplace safety and the Voluntary Protection Program Act, and spoke to participants. “I proudly represent Texas’ 29th District, which is home to the Houston Ship Channel and the largest petrochemical complex in the country. Many of the refineries, chemical plants, and factories that line the Houston Ship Channel and the Port of Houston and employ thousands of my constituents, are VPP sites. I support VPP sites because we know they are safer for employees and surrounding communities.” Nationwide, VPP worksites consistently average injury and illness rates 50 percent below their industries’ average, saving employers and the federal government tens of millions of dollars a year in avoided injuries. He continued, “VPP is supported by business owners and labor unions in Houston and throughout the country because it works. No program has been more successful in creating a culture of safety in the workplace than VPP. That’s why I have proudly been the main Democratic sponsor of the Voluntary Protection Program Act since 2010. It would, for the first time, authorize VPP in federal law—meaning no matter who’s in the White House, VPP will be here to stay—and give Congress, instead of OSHA, control over VPP’s funding.” ###
08.25.2015	HOUSTON – Congressman Green invites constituents to this year’s Annual Northside/Aldine Job Fair on Wednesday, September 2, 2015 at the M.O. Campbell Educational Center. More than 40 companies will be seeking to recruit participants for a variety of positions and career fields including full-time, part-time, and seasonal employment. Attendees should dress professionally, and be prepared with resumes. “This event offers constituents an opportunity to interact with various companies in a wide variety of professions,” Green said. “We’re glad these companies are partnering with us and working to build the workforce right here in our community.” The event will commence at 9 a.m. with welcoming remarks from Congressman Green and event partners from Workforce Solutions and Aldine Independent School District at 10 a.m. Confirmed participants include: A&V Human Resources, Adobe Equipment, Aldine ISD, Allied Barton Security, Apollo Fellows, Avance, Barri, Brazos Presbyterian Homes, City of Houston, City of Houston Parks & Recreation, City of Houston Public Works & Engineering City of Houston Solid Waste Management, Comcast, DeVry University, Driving Momentum Inc., Employee Solutions Inc., Goodwill Industries of Houston, Harris County Human Resources and Risk, Harris County Sheriffs, Harris County Toll Road Authority, Hilton Americas, Houston Plumbers, Houston Police Department, Hyatt Regency in North Houston, JC2 Technologies, Link Staffing, Lone Star College, Manpower, METRO, Neighborhood Centers, Remedy Intelligent Staffing, Sears Service, Service Corporation International, Southern Tube, Space City Tutoring & Learning Center, Texas Department of Criminal Justice, Texas, Veterans Commission, TXU Energy, United Site Services, UPS, Whelan Security, and Workforce Solutions. WHAT: Annual Northside/Aldine Job Fair WHEN: Wednesday, September 2, 2015; 9:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. WHERE: M.O. Campbell Educational Center; 1865 Aldine Bender Road, Houston, TX 77032 DETAILS: Participants will have the opportunity to meet representatives from a variety of industries who will be filling positions and scheduling interviews during the event. ###
08.25.2015	HOUSTON – Rep. Gene Green’s 20th Annual Immunization served over 2,500 participants this year, with qualified volunteers delivering more than 1,800 vaccines. “By hosting this event over two days and three locations, we were able to serve more people than last year,” Green said. “We had over 2,500 attendees, and more than 900 children received the vaccines they needed, free of charge.” Last year, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) put out an analysis of how many children’s lives have been saved by immunizations between 1994 and 2013. The CDC estimated that among the 78.6 million children born during that period, vaccines prevented 322 million illnesses, 21 million hospitalizations, and 732,000 premature deaths. “Vaccines save lives, and they are the best investment we can make for public health, and for our children’s future,” Green said. “Since 1996, our office has hosted Immunization Day and thousands of children have received free vaccines. Through events like this and a coordinated effort on the city and county level, the immunization rate in Harris County has increased from 64 percent for school-aged children in 2002 to 76 percent today. We have to continue to make them more widely accessible, as well as easier to access and track.” Immunization Day was held in partnership with Aldine ISD, Galena Park ISD, AAMA Learning Center, Harris Health System, Aldine Community Health Center, Texas Children’s Hospital, Vecino Health Centers, Saint Hope Foundation, Texas Children’s Health Plan, LyondellBasell, Rotary International District 5890, Texas Medical Association Foundation, Walgreens, Sea Smiles Dental, Lone Star College Nursing Program, University of Houston and Texas Southern University Pharmacy Programs, and San Jacinto College Nursing School. ###
08.13.2015	HOUSTON – The Houston Parks and Recreation Department was selected as a winner of the national Parks Build Community campaign and awarded a $20,000 grant. Funds will be used to build the Northshore Nature Walk, a half-mile loop connecting neighborhoods on the east side of the park through a forested wildlife area in Hermann Brown Park. Congressman Gene Green, an advocate for the project, will be among the local and elected officials to speak at the ribbon cutting ceremony on August 22nd. “I am glad to speak at the ribbon cutting ceremony for North Shore Community Natural Trail to celebrate this new addition to our city.” Green said. “Public parks and recreational trails help us create healthier communities by setting aside space for families and children to get outside. That’s particularly important in our urban area.” The new addition to the park will feature a sitting area, benches, tree stools, a half-mile of trail through forest and prairie, pollinator garden, Memorial Grove area, educational station, and possible other areas of shade structures. The Parks Build Community grant is supported by the Walt Disney Company and the National Recreation and Park Association. ###
08.10.2015	HOUSTON – Congressman Gene Green invites students and families to kick off the new school year with a discussion about children's health and healthcare policy, and free immunizations. Services will be available for school-aged children in the 29th Congressional District at the AAMA Learning Center and M.O. Campbell Educational Center. “This event helps raise awareness about children’s health issues, and gets kids started out on the right foot for the upcoming school year,” Green said. “We like to see families taking advantage of the resources and being proactive about keeping their kids healthy.” Immunization Day event partners include: Harris Health System, Texas Children’s Hospital Mobile Clinic Outreach Program, Aldine Community Health Center, Vecino Health Centers, Saint Hope Foundation, Texas Children’s Health Plan, M.O. Campbell Educational Center, AAMA Learning Center, Aldine Independent School District, Galena Park Independent School District, LyondellBasell, Rotary International District 5890, and the Texas Medical Association Foundation. WHAT: Rep. Gene Green’s 20th Annual Immunization Day WHEN: Saturday, August 15, 2014 - 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. WHERE: AAMA Learning Center - 6001 Gulf Freeway, Building E, Houston, TX 77023 M.O. Campbell Education Center, Aldine ISD - 1865 Aldine Bender Road, Houston, TX 77032 DETAILS:Families are invited to join a discussion about health care and receive free immunizations for children. Parents must bring a copy of their child's immunization records. ###
08.03.2015	WASHINGTON – On Monday, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released the final version of its Clean Power Plan to regulate and lower greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. The final rule would require plants to put out an average of 32 percent less carbon dioxide by 2030 than they had in the year 2005. Congressman Gene Green released the following statement in response: “The Clean Power Plan is a big step in the regulation of the power sector. I’m cautiously optimistic about the plan considering Texas’ unique challenges in meeting these new standards. State regulators are now required to work toward crafting a reasonable and timely plan. Texas has dealt with federal implementation plans in the past, and the permitting process suffered lengthy delay. Industries and agencies do not want to undergo that again. “The final rule considers the time and cost to industry and offers extensions on State Implementation Plans, a Reliability Safety Valve (RSV), and lengthened compliance deadlines. I am pleased the EPA has requested assistance input from the Department of Energy (DOE) and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in overseeing the implementation of the rule to ensure that reliability is protected. Congress will continue to monitor the implementation and will offer common sense solutions if any issues present themselves.” ###
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday, Texas Representatives Gene Green (D-TX-29) and Brian Babin (R-TX-36) introduced the Waterway Safety Improvement Act to enhance navigation and safety in our nation’s ports, including the Port of Houston. This legislation addresses longtime concerns on the Port of Houston waterways with clarifying language and by granting discretionary authority to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE)—the entity in charge of Port maintenance. Rep. Green said, “I am pleased to introduce the Waterway Safety Improvement Act with my colleague Rep. Brian Babin. Incidents and collisions can have a high cost on the national and local economy, and an even bigger cost on local communities and the environment. The Waterway Safety Improvement Act would enhance efficiency and navigation control by increasing the depth, width and navigation of the area, particularly in turning basins. We want to ensure the USACE has the authority to complete dredging operations under existing authorities and not have to come back to Congress every time a question arises.” The USACE plays a key role in America’s well-being by keeping waterways open for navigation and commerce. Deepening and widening of waterways, such as ports and ship channels for the safe commercial waterborne traffic is a top priority for the Corps. Texas is the largest maritime state in the United States, with over 17,000 deep draft ships transiting the Port of Houston annually. Nationally, the Port of Houston ranks number one in foreign tonnage and is the second largest port in the country by all tonnage. “The Waterway Safety Improvement Act will provide much-needed flexibility and resources to ensure that the Army Corps of Engineers can properly maintain our nation’s ports and address any safety issues in a timely manner,” Babin said. “This legislation will benefit our area tremendously and further strengthen the Port of Houston as a world leader in the maritime industry. I am proud to lead this effort with my colleague Rep. Gene Green to help improve the safety and reliability of our ports.” ###
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday, the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Architecture of Abundance energy package was voted favorably out of the Energy and Power Subcommittee by a voice vote. The bill contains several provisions that Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) previously introduced or co-sponsored as stand-alone legislation, including; Section 1102, the Resolving Environmental and Grid Reliability Conflicts, and Section 2101, the Energy and Manufacturing Workforce Development title. “Today is another milestone in a slow but steady return to bipartisanship and regular order. The legislation that passed out of subcommittee was crafted through discussion and compromise, and I’m optimistic that we can continue this type of collaboration as we work toward a final bill. This legislation is a great starting point and I remain confident that more good ideas will be included as we move forward.” The Grid Reliability section includes language to ensure electric reliability during extremely high electricity demand periods. By enabling utilities to follow the Department of Energy’s emergency must-run orders instead of being penalized by the Environmental Protections Agency for violations of the Clean Air Act, the legislation offers an overdue resolution to a long-standing legal conflict. Section 2101, the Workforce Development title, creates education programs and opportunities for work force training for underrepresented communities, including minorities, women, and veterans. The legislation would create tremendous opportunity in Texas’ 29th District, which is home to a large Hispanic population as well as hundreds of energy development companies. The Energy and Commerce Committee is slated to hold a mark-up in September. ###
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON— On Wednesday, Representatives Gene Green (D-TX) and Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) introduced H. Con. Res. 62, expressing the Sense of Congress that the United States Embassy in Israel should be located in Jerusalem. In 1995, the United States Congress passed the Jerusalem Embassy Act requiring the President to move the United States embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. The legislation was passed to secure American recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Unfortunately, successive administrations have used a Presidential waiver authority, included in the bill, to delay that transfer due to national security concerns. However, today Jerusalem is a safe and secure city where we safely have maintained a large and busy consulate. “Israel is America’s greatest ally in the Middle East and Jerusalem, its capital, is the cornerstone of Israeli history and the center point for religious freedom and worship,�? Green said. “As an ally, we must recognize and support our friends by moving the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Congress agreed to this measure with overwhelming bipartisanship 20 years ago, this should not be politicized or delayed any further.�? “Throughout its history, Israel has always been a proven ally of the United States and freedom-loving nations throughout the world,�? said Blackburn. “In a time when the Middle East is becoming increasingly volatile, Israel remains a source of stability and peace in the region. It is past time for the United States to strengthen its diplomatic relationship with Israel and move our embassy to Jerusalem in recognition of its status as the capital city.�? ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Gene Green released the following statement after President Obama announced that a nuclear agreement has been reach with Iran: “I commend all the parties involved for the hard work and countless hours it took to reach an agreement. It is now Congress’ turn to put in the same type of work. We have a responsibility to review the intricate details of the plan and decide whether or not to authorize the Administration to proceed. Congress asked for a place at the table and now we must ensure the deal passes muster. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and the Administration.” ###
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON – On Friday, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 344-77 in favor of H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act. This landmark bill is the product of more than a year of bipartisan collaboration of the Administration and stakeholders, and as a result, it is supported by more than 370 patient groups, physician groups, and research institutions from across the country. It was voted unanimously out of the House Energy and Commerce Committee in May by a vote of 51-0. Today’s vote is undeniable proof that Representatives from both sides of the aisle are ready to invest in the next generation of treatments and cures. “The Cures Initiative has always been about patients, and today is a big victory for patients and families all across our nation,” Green said. “While some of the provisions are technical in nature, their real-world impact is not abstract. This bill will improve the innovation ecosystem for the development of life-saving medical breakthroughs, and better leverage critical resources to facilitate the discovery of new cures. The United States is home to some of the most advanced researchers and medical innovators, new cures and treatments are at our fingertips. Thanks to today’s vote, we’re now one step closer to realizing that goal.” H.R. 6 was authored by Reps. Fred Upton (R-MI), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Gene Green (D-TX), and Joe Pitts (R-PA) to encourage biomedical innovation and the development of breakthrough treatments and cures for patients in need. As an original sponsor of the legislation, Rep. Green strongly pushed for several of its keys provisions, including $8.75 billion in mandatory funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The legislation also includes other legislation championed by Rep. Green along with Reps. John Shimkus (R-IL) and Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), the ADAPT Act (H.R. 2629) and the SOFTWARE Act (H.R. 2396), respectively. ###
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON – On Thursday, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on H.R. 2822, the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2016. This legislation appropriates approximately $30 billion in discretionary budget authority for FY 2016, which is about $250 million below FY 2015 funding levels, and falls $2 billion below the President’s budget request. The bill also contains several environmental policy riders. Congressman Gene Green voted no, and released the following statement: "Unfortunately, I was unable to support this legislation. H.R. 2822 continues a long-standing trend of the Republican Party using Appropriations bills to advance anti-environment, anti-conservation, and anti-wildlife agendas. I support balancing our economic, energy and environmental requirements but this bill does not accomplish any balance. I would welcome the opportunity to work with my friends across the aisle to craft funding bills that drive our economy by expanding energy development while protecting at-risk wildlife and the wider environment." ###
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday, the House of Representatives voted on H.R. 5, the Student Success Act. The bill was passed in a partisan vote of 218-213. Congressman Gene Green released the following statement: “H.R. 5 undermines the fundamental purpose of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), which was created to ensure that disadvantaged children receive a high-quality education. This bill cuts crucial education funding, fails to hold states and districts accountable for supporting and improving the achievement of all students, eliminates and weakens protections for disadvantaged students, and lacks critical support systems for our nation’s educators. This reauthorization was an opportunity to make much needed improvements to the ESEA and create a better education system. This bill is a huge step in the wrong direction. “I voted no on H.R. 5. We should instead support a reauthorization bill that restores our nation’s commitment to providing equal opportunity for all students regardless of their background and protects our country’s students including the most vulnerable, which was the original intention of this landmark civil rights law.” ###
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON – On Thursday, Representatives Gene Green (D-TX), Pete Olson (R-TX), Brian Babin (R-TX) introduced H.R. 2923, the Maritime and Energy Workforce Technical Training Enhancement Act, which would create two new grant programs through the Department of Energy (DOE) to help train workers in the maritime and energy sectors. The first grant program establishes a maritime and energy technical training grant that provides financial support for workforce training at community colleges and four-year universities in these two fields. The second program would allow for the establishment up to 10 Centers of Excellence around the country that would focus on expanding workforce training opportunities and assist with job placement. “In our District, we have a surplus of maritime and energy jobs, and not enough people with the skills and training to fill them,” Green said. “Industry is continuing to invest and grow along the Port of Houston, and we want to make sure that our constituents have the opportunity to take these high skilled jobs. This bipartisan legislation will help bridge the gap. It’s good for our local community, it’s good for our businesses, and it’s good for the American economy.” Olson said, “The Houston region is home to the Port and the thousands of maritime jobs looking to be filled, this bill provides an important opportunity to help match our economic needs with well-trained employees. Our local colleges are filling an important need with training programs and this bill will help that process. It’s been great to work with my Houston colleagues to strengthen our workforce and by extension our economy.” “Our area’s economic livelihood depends on the maritime industry,” said Babin. “It’s critical that our students have access to the recourses and training they need to meet the needs of these high-skilled jobs. We have excellent institutions ready to provide and expand on this valuable training. This important bill will grow and strengthen these opportunities to help ensure our students are properly prepared to work in our area’s leading maritime industry.” H.R. 2923 has two other original cosponsors, Reps. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) and Reid Ribble (R-WI). ###
06.25.2015	HOUSTON— On Saturday, July 11th, Congressman Gene Green is hosting the North Channel Area Community Clean-up from 8 a.m. until 12:00 p.m. The event will commence at the East Freeway Houston Police Department Storefront where Congressman Green will deliver remarks at 8:30 a.m. “This is a great time for Houstonians to come together and contribute their time to improving our neighborhood and community. The goal is to have the entire North Channel Area commit to banishing litter and trash from area parks, schools, streets, and sidewalks,” Green said. “We really enjoy this event, and being a part of a greater movement to improve our city.” Community volunteers will be cleaning up along the I-10 East Freeway corridor, Greens Bayou, and neighborhoods within the North Channel Area. “This is a good event for families, parents and children alike. We invite all those who are interested to join us next Saturday morning,” Green said. This event is being held in conjunction with the City of Houston, Keep Houston Beautiful and Department of Neighborhoods. Community partners include: the Houston Police Department-Northeast Division, State Senator Sylvia Garcia, State Rep. Ana Hernandez, Constable Chris Diaz, Councilman Robert Gallegos, Councilmember C.O. Bradford, the North Channel Area Chamber of Commerce, Northeast Houston Advisory Council, North East Partners In Power, Inc., E.T.C.P., Holiday Forest, Wood Shadows I, Wood Shadows II Civic Clubs, and others. Interested volunteers should contact Congressman Gene Green’s North Houston Office at 281-999-5879. WHAT: North Channel Area Community Clean-up WHEN: Saturday, July 11, 2015 8:00am – 12:00 p.m. WHERE: East Freeway Houston Police Department Storefront 12001-A East Freeway Houston, TX 77029 ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON – On Thursday, the Supreme Court of the United States released its long-awaited decision for King v. Burwell. Petitioners of the court case challenged the availability of tax credits for people who purchase health insurance on a marketplace created by the federal government. With a vote of 6-3 the Justices upheld the current standard, ensuring tax credits and affordable health care for the millions of Americans who have gained coverage through the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Congressman Gene Green released the following statement: “I am pleased that the Supreme Court ruled in favor of Secretary Burwell and the respondents. This decision protects credits for 800,000 Texans, including more than 25,000 constituents in our District, from a partisan attack on the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “The ACA works. Since the Congress passed the ACA, the uninsured rate in our country has approached historic lows. Under the law, approximately 10 million Americans gained coverage. Additionally, health care prices are rising at the slowest rate in 50 years. “The Supreme Court’s decision reiterates a common sense reading of the law’s text: these tax credits are available to all Americans regardless of where they live. The structure, text, and legislative history of the ACA all reflect this interpretation. The Supreme Court’s decision in favor of this interpretation has real-world impact on Americans living in states with Federally-run insurance exchanges. “Thanks to today’s decision by the Supreme Court, the ACA will continue to work. The law will continue to provide coverage for hard-working Americans, and it can continue to provide subsidies for eligible individuals living in states with Federally-run insurance exchanges who cannot otherwise afford insurance coverage. “It’s time to move on. This was a failed attack on the least controversial part of the law, which makes health care more affordable for all Americans. We cannot afford to continue considering ACA repeal efforts in the House of Representatives, and jeopardize the health, safety and economic stability of American families.” ###
06.23.2015	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) stood before the House of Representatives to support H.R. 2576, the Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA) Modernization Act and called on other Representatives to do the same. TSCA reform has been an ongoing bipartisan effort since the 113th Congress. This legislation would modernize the standards for use and regulation of commercial chemicals, an important issue for the 29th District, which includes several petrochemical plants and surrounding fence line communities along the Port of Houston. He delivered the following remarks: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2576, the TSCA Modernization Act. I am a proud cosponsor of this bipartisan legislation that will update the Toxic Substances Control Act, our nation’s primary statute regulating the use and safety of commercial chemicals, for the first time since it was enacted in 1976. “This legislation will directly address many of current TSCA’s biggest flaws, including eliminating the “least burdensome” requirement and explicitly clarifying that the law’s safety standard excludes any consideration of costs. “This bill would require EPA to consider the risks to vulnerable subpopulations, like children, pregnant women, and workers, and set restrictions, if necessary, to protect them. “The TSCA Modernization Act will go a long way towards ensuring that all American families—especially the families of chemical facility workers and fence line communities in my district in Houston and Harris County are protected from potentially harmful chemicals and bring needed regulatory clarity to this important sector of our nation’s economy. “I would like to thank Reps. Shimkus, Tonko, Upton, and Pallone and their staffs for their hard work and willingness to come together and make TSCA reform a reality. I ask colleagues from both sides of the aisle to join us and vote in support of this important legislation. “Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and I yield the remainder of my time.” ###
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON – On Friday the House of Representatives voted on H.R. 1314, the Trade Act of 2015. Members voted divisively, putting a halt to TPA in the House of Representatives. Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) voted no on all provisions, standing firmly against the bill, which would give the office of the President Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) for three years. Rep. Green released the following statement: “Too many working families in Northside and Eastside Houston and Harris County have been on the losing end of recent trade deals that failed to protect middle class jobs from moving to China and Mexico. I voted against the bill because, like previous agreements, it failed to guarantee that American small businesses and workers would compete on an equal playfield with foreign companies who are currency manipulators and do not protect basic human rights. Giving the Administration fast track authority would have undermined any chance for Congress to have any meaningful say on the largest trade deals America has ever negotiated.” ###
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON– U.S. Reps. Gene Green (D-TX) and Markwayne Mullin (R-OK) introduced a bill that supports manufacturing jobs and skilled labor in the U.S. automotive industry. The H.R. 2675, the Low Volume Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Act of 2015 would protect low volume car manufacturers from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) one-size-fits-all method for regulating automakers. The law would only apply to companies that manufacture “replica” cars, which are vehicles that resemble a car produced over 25 years ago. “While the market for these vehicles has been historically small, the enthusiasm hobbyists have for these cars shouldn’t be stymied by regulations that are clearly designed for large scale manufacturers.” Green said. “This bill will improve the current practice of selling “kit cars”, bringing the engines installed into the 21st century by requiring them to meet current year Clean Air Act standards along with maintaining an onboard diagnostic system. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the committee as the bill goes forward.” Under current law, replica cars on the market are sold as “kit cars,” which requires the hobbyist to install the engine of the vehicle. There have been approximately 16,000 kit cars sold in the U.S. over the past twenty years, but it is estimated that H.R. 2675 would spur initial sales of up to 500 additional kit cars per year completed by low volume manufacturers rather than hobbyists. Mullin said, “The current law does not take into account the unique challenges that small auto manufacturers face when it comes to recreating historic cars. We can’t expect these companies to be able to comply with a law that was established in the 1960s for automakers that mass-produce millions of vehicles every year. We need encourage growth in our manufacturing market, not create unnecessary barriers.” Under H.R. 2675, the replica cars would meet current emissions standards, and The Clean Air Act would be adjusted to require the low volume manufacturers to install engines from a current model year vehicle along with an on-board diagnostics system (OBD system). The companies producing the cars would also be required to register with NHTSA and the EPA, as well as file annual reports and be subject to oversight by the agencies. H.R. 2675 has been referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, of which Mullin and Green are both members ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON – On Thursday, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released their progress report on the potential impact of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The study found no correlation between hydraulic fracturing and water contamination. Congressman Gene Green released the following statement in response: “This EPA study confirms what we’ve known in Texas for more than 65 years; there is no direct link between hydraulic fracturing and drinking water contamination. I disagreed with the study when Congress requested it over five years ago, but I am pleased with the EPA did not conduct this study with a targeted outcome in mind. “Scientific evidence has long indicated that because there are thousands of feet of geologic separation between fracking activities and surface water, contamination by migration is extremely unlikely. Unfortunately, some groups that are anti-U.S. energy production were hoping for a different outcome, no matter what the science says. “I will continue to support state regulation of safe and responsible well-casing and drilling activities on private and state lands to ensure that our lands and drinking water remain unharmed. We must continue to monitor and hold accountable bad actors that employ flawed techniques, which actually can cause harm. “The U.S. has an opportunity to establish itself as an energy powerhouse. In conjunction with our neighbors, Canada and Mexico, North America has the potential to become the energy hub of the world in the 21st century, and hydraulic fracturing would play a key role in that outcome.” ###
05.29.2015	WASHINGTON – On Friday the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed Renewable Volume Obligations (RVO) under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) program for the years, 2014, 2015, and 2016. EPA is proposing to establish 2014 standards at levels that reflect actual consumption of domestic renewable fuel in that year, and standards for 2015 and 2016 that increase steadily over time. Congressman Gene Green released the following statement: “Today, the EPA proposed the RVO for 2014 and 2015— many months after the standard should have been set. While the 2014 standard is reflective of actual fuel production, this does not provide the refining industry any solace, and doesn’t do any good after the fact. The RVOs are set to increase over time. The realities of the marketplace are that fuel efficiency is up and demand is flat, if not declining. It surely doesn’t make sense to increase the requirements. The standards are not reflective of our market’s needs. Congress needs to work on the issue, and pass legislation that respects the spirit of the law by encouraging advanced fuels, but eliminates the EPA’s juggling act and the economic uncertainty surrounding the RFS.” ###
05.28.2015	HOUSTON – Congressman Gene Green applauds the announcement of a grant award for El Centro de Corazón in the 29th Congressional District of Texas from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The grant, titled Health Center Cluster, was awarded to El Centro in the amount of $1,127,349 for program development, health and medical services and planning, and education and training. “Community Health Centers like El Centro de Corazón are a vital part of our health care safety net, and help those who have difficulty finding reliable, affordable health care,” Green said. “I want to congratulate and thank El Centro on their success, and their continued commitment to serve our area. We must continue to fund and support health center like El Centro, which play an important role in the 29th District where we have an underserved community.” El Centro is a community-based Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC), which provides primary care, pediatric, prenatal, mental health, and dental services to individuals and families in three locations around East End Houston. They offer services in both English and Spanish. ###
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON – The House Energy and Commerce Committee today approved H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act with a unanimous vote of 51-0. The bipartisan legislation will help modernize and personalize health care, encourage greater innovation, support research, and streamline the system to deliver better, faster cures to more patients. The bill has received continued support throughout the process. The 21st Century Cures Act was authored by full committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member DeGette, full committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), and Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-PA). "This historic day marks a big bipartisan step forward on our path to cures,” said Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI). “We have all said too many early good-byes to people we love and treasure. Every single person has a common goal: we want more time with those we love. In this, the greatest country in the world, Americans deserve a system second to none. We can and must do better. The time for 21st Century Cures is now.” "In the last century, American medicine leapt from medicine shows to the mapping of the human genome,” said Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO).”With the 21st Century Cures Act, we seek to support the biomedical community in making a similar leap forward in this next century. With billions in support for our premier research and development institutions and comprehensive reform of our systems, 21st Century Cures will make a real difference in the lives of patients and their families." “Our committee has had the unique opportunity to help usher our health care system into the 21st century, and I am glad that we have come together to begin to do so in a bipartisan way with this bill,” said Ranking Member Pallone (D-NJ). “The 21st Century Cures Act will ensure that innovative treatments are getting to those who need them most, giving real hope to patients and their families. Critical funding for our nation’s top research institutions will help to bolster biomedical research, advance cutting edge science, and further improve the process by which life-saving cures are discovered and approved. Today’s vote is an important step toward improving the health and lives of millions of Americans.” Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) said, “I’m proud of the final bill that was voted out of Committee, which will improve the innovation ecosystem for the development of life-saving medical breakthroughs, foster the development and the interoperability of health information technology, and better leverage critical resources to facilitate the discovery of new cures. After one year of deliberation, research, and stakeholder input we’re one step closer to delivering new cures and therapies, and hope to patients and families.” “Today’s vote is an important next step for this committee as we work to get 21st Century Cures enacted into law by the end of the year,” said Rep. Joseph R. Pitts (R-PA). “This bill is improved since the Subcommittee marked it up on May 14, and that demonstrates the collaborative nature of our effort. Landmark legislation like 21st Century Cures illustrates that Congress can and should strive for ambitious goals. I want to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their hard work to modernize our discovery, development and delivery system, which will give hope to millions of Americans for an accelerated path to cures.” ###
05.20.2015	HOUSTON – On Thursday, Congressman Gene Green is hosting a Veterans Forum in Houston where veterans and families can learn about the new and current federal policies that affect them and receive information about veteran’s benefits and services from local groups and government agencies. “Our servicemen and women have given so much to our country, risking their lives and sacrificing the comforts they work selflessly to defend. We need to make sure they are greeted with the same level of commitment when they return home,” Green said. “Veterans shouldn’t have to wait months to get their benefits or make a medical appointment. We’re hosting this Forum so people can get direct assistance, and learn about what we’re doing to improve the overall system.” Representatives from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Houston Regional Office, Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center, Houston National Cemetery, Texas Veterans Land Board, Texas Veterans Commission, and American GI Forum will be available to answer individual questions. They will also provide information about healthcare, disability and pensions benefits, and employment services. Representatives from the Veterans Affairs offices at San Jacinto College, Houston Community College Northeast Campus, and Lone Star College will also be in attendance to discuss education programs. WHAT: Rep. Gene Green's Veterans Forum WHEN: Thursday, May 21, 2015 6:30 – 7:30 p.m. WHERE: American Legion Post 499 1601 16th Street Galena Park, Texas 77547 ###
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, The House Energy and Commerce Committee released Title III of its Architecture of Abundance energy package. This final title, Energy Diplomacy for a Changing World, includes key provisions from the North American Energy and Infrastructure Act and the LNG Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act, which were crafted and introduced during the 113th Congress by Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Representative Bill Johnson (R-OH), and Representative Gene Green (D-TX). Title III includes the framework for a structural process to quickly approve cross-border pipelines between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico included in the North American Energy and Infrastructure Act, while specifically excluding the Keystone XL Pipeline project. “It’s time to move away from the political rhetoric surrounding the Keystone project, and get to work on updating our energy policies.” Green said. “The United States is in a great position to form a unified energy sector with Canada and Mexico that would benefit all three nations. This new language creates an effective and responsible process for approving cross-border pipeline while removing political calculations and obstructions.” The legislative package also included language from H.R. 351 a bill to expedite approval on Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) export projects, which passed the House of Representatives in January by a vote of 277-133. Green said, “The U.S. is in the middle of an energy renaissance. Unfortunately, our energy policies have not been able to keep pace with the rapidly expanding industry. Allowing for LNG exports will benefit our economy and help our global allies free themselves of energy dependence from hostile sources.” The Architecture of Abundance Energy Package also include provisions to modernize energy infrastructure, educate and sustain a 21st Century workforce, and create better energy efficiency and accountability for Americans. The Energy and Power Subcommittee is slated to hold a hearing Thursday with Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz to discuss the Quadrennial Energy Review and the Administration recommended updates for energy infrastructure. ###
04.21.2015	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, the Department of Energy (DOE) released the initial installment of its first ever Quadrennial Energy Review (QER). The review examines vulnerabilities in U.S. energy infrastructure and proposes policy recommendations to modernize systems, and promote economic competitiveness, energy security, and environmental responsibility. After reviewing the QER, Congressman Gene Green released the following statement: “It’s important to us that the Administration sees the need for investment in our energy infrastructure. “The energy revolution in our country has drastically changed markets and economies in the U.S. and across the globe. Ten years ago, we faced rising costs, falling employment, and companies moving overseas, and today that couldn’t be further from the truth. “To encourage additional development and achieve the Administration’s emission reductions goals, the U.S. needs to modernize its pipeline and grid network. Today, cost-competitive oil and gas are being produced in new areas of the country that are not equipped with the necessary infrastructure. Even in my home state of Texas faces pipeline and grid connectivity issues, so we know it’s a problem. “I support the Administration’s work to quantify the issues facing our energy infrastructure, but rather than spending billions of federal dollars on special programs, we need to streamline and expedite permitting in a way that eliminates endless delay, while still protecting the environment. “Mid-stream companies, like the ones in our District, and the energy sector as a whole are ready to spend billions in private capital to meet the demands of the market, but they simply cannot do that without permitting certainty. This is costing us American jobs and new revenue. “I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee to find a way to take the most innovative and effective solutions from all stakeholders and crafting legislation that will make room the developing energy sector, and our growing economy.” ###
04.17.2015	WASHINGTON – On Thursday, Congress released its long-anticipated “fast track” bill, which would create an accelerated consideration process for trade agreements sent to Congress by the Administration. The new, stricter process would force Congress to consider treaties within 90 days of receipt, and would not allow for any amendments. Congressman Gene Green released the following statement: “Fast track is not about selling more American goods and services overseas. It is Congress handing over its constitutional duties to the White House. It does not matter if the President is a Democrat or a Republican, Congress must assert its prerogative over international trade and ensure that working American families are protected from unfair trade deals.” ###
04.14.2015	(Houston, TX) – Congressman Gene Green invites constituents to his 13th Annual Job Fair on Monday, April 27th at San Jacinto College North from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. “We have employers coming from all over the Houston area, and job opportunities ranging from lifeguards to sales representatives to police cadets,” Green said. “Changing careers or landing that first job can be challenging. Our hope is that this job fair creates a space where people can meet potential employers from a variety of industries and make that first connection or take that first step.” The event is being organized in conjunction with Workforce Solutions and the North Channel Area Chamber of Commerce, and will host over 50 employers that are looking to fill full and part-time, and seasonal positions immediately. In addition to job opportunities, Workforce Solutions will be offering assistance on interviewing skills and resume critiquing. Attendees should dress professionally and bring resumes. For a full list of participating employers, visit Congressman Gene Green’s on the event page. ###
03.24.2015	(Washington, D.C.)—On Tuesday, Reps. Gene Green (D-TX), Pete Olson (R-TX), and Mike Doyle (D-PA) reintroduced H.R. 1558, the Resolving Environmental and Grid Reliability Act. This legislation would ensure electric reliability during extremely high electricity demand periods. By enabling utilities to follow the Department of Energy’s emergency must-run orders instead of being penalized by the Environmental Protection Agency for violations of the Clean Air Act, the legislation offers an overdue resolution to a long-standing legal conflict. Senators Claire McCaskill (D-MO) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) also reintroduced Senate companion bill, the Grid Reliability Act. “This bill is a common sense solution to an issue that affects Americans all across the country,” Green said. “Our current system causes conflict and delays when we can least afford them, all because of ill-defined jurisdiction—but this legislation easily fixes that. This bipartisan solution will ensure that utilities keep the power on, businesses remain up and running and our constituents keep their lights on. Emergencies can happen at any time, and when they do, we need a direct path to resolution, this bill provides that path.” Olson said, "Texas and other states are well aware that reserve margins can dip dangerously during the hot summer months. Not to mention the long, cold winter we just experienced in most of the US. This bill fixes an unfortunate glitch in federal law that puts power generators in the unenviable position of choosing which federal law they will violate - a DOE emergency order to provide power or environmental laws that expose them to citizen lawsuits. The bipartisan and bicameral support for this bill is proof that we can find common ground when working to address a critical fault in federal law, protect the environment and provide a reliable energy supply to all Americans." “Ensuring that Americans can count on a dependable supply of electricity, even in extreme temperature conditions, should be a top priority for Congress,” Doyle said. “That’s why it’s important to reconcile these conflicting federal laws that put power producers in an untenable position. I’m pleased to once again join my colleagues in reintroducing the Grid Reliability Act to help keep electricity flowing to American homes and businesses.” McCaskill said, “This is an issue of basic fairness and common sense. The government has created an inherent conflict by forcing electricity providers to take action and then punishing them for taking that action. Our bipartisan bill gets rid of that conflict by allowing utilities to improve grid reliability without fear of these conflicting, burdensome environmental regulations.” “It is completely unacceptable that utility providers in Missouri and across the nation are forced to violate the law and face costly lawsuits for simply doing their job,” Blunt said. “This bipartisan bill provides certainty to the people responsible for keeping the lights on and protect‎s utility providers from citizen lawsuits or environmental fines when the government forces them to operate for reliability purposes.” In recent years, conflicting laws have resulted in lawsuits and heavy fines for electricity providers attempting to comply with these statutes. ###
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON—On Thursday, the House Energy and Commerce Committee reported several bills out of committee, including H.R. 648 the Trauma Systems and Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorization Act, and H.R. 647, the Access to Life-Saving Trauma Care for All Americans Act. Both bills were authored by Health Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX), and Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX). “Reauthorization of these programs will help to prevent trauma center closures, facilitate the development of more efficient regionalized systems of care, and improve our ability to save lives,” Green said. “Trauma can happen to anyone, anywhere, at any time. The importance of a robust and efficient trauma care system and quality trauma centers is an issue we where we can come together to ensure that all Americans have access to care when their life depends on it.” H.R. 647 reauthorizes the Trauma Care Center Grants and Trauma Service Availability Grants. These programs are designed to provide grants to prevent further trauma center closures, address shortfalls in trauma services and improve access to and the availability of trauma care in underserved areas. H.R. 648 reauthorizes Trauma and Emergency Care Systems Grants. These programs are essential to ensure the coordination of trauma care delivery among trauma centers, as well as implement and evaluate innovative models of regionalized emergency care systems. “Following a trauma, a patient needs access to care as soon as possible – within the ‘golden hour,’” Burgess said. “But sadly, 45 million Americans lack access to a trauma center within this amount of time. As a physician, I know how important it is that we have adequate, fully developed and functional trauma systems in the U.S. To let another system atrophy and widen the disparity between areas with access to trauma systems and those without is unfair to patients who need urgent care when the unthinkable happens.” ###
02.04.2015	(Washington, DC)– Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Health Subcommittee, Congressman Joe Pitts (R-PA), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Health Subcommittee, and Congressman Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, re-introduced H.R. 639, the Improving Regulatory Transparency for New Medical Therapies Act. This bipartisan legislation seeks to improve the transparency and consistency of Drug Enforcement Agency’s (DEA) review of pharmaceuticals. “I’m glad to be working with my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee to improve patient access to innovative treatments,” Green said. “This legislation will reduce unnecessary delays and bring clarity and transparency to the process of scheduling of new FDA-approved therapies.” H.R. 639 improves the DEA scheduling process for new FDA-approved drugs under the Controlled Substances Act and the registration process for the use of controlled substances in clinical trials. This will allow safe and innovative treatments to get to patients in a more timely and predictable manner. Pitts said, “Once again, I am introducing this legislation to make sure patients get timely access to the latest therapies safely. I’m proud to be working together this year once again with Congressman Pallone, now the Ranking Member of the full committee and also now with Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), my new counterpart on the Health Subcommittee. We’re all going to pull together to get this bipartisan measure through Congress this year.” "I’m proud to work with Chairman Pitts and Ranking Member Green on this critical initiative that will bring better reliability and transparency to DEA review of new therapies, while continuing to ensure that they reach those in need both safely and effectively,” said Pallone. “This bill will support the innovation already occurring throughout the medical community and continues our committee’s important bipartisan efforts to better align our drug approval framework with the interests of patients.” H.R. 639 is scheduled for mark up in the Health Subcommittee this week. ###
02.03.2015	(Washington, DC) – On Monday, President Obama released his FY16 Budget proposal to Congress. Representative Gene Green released the following statement: “The President’s proposed budget sustains important programs and new initiatives for working class Americans. It contains essential health provisions such as a much-needed extension for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The budget also invests $3.8 billion in health centers, which are a key component to our nation’s health care safety net, and a comprehensive plan for advanced medical research. “While I am glad to see critical investments in health, I would like to also see more for our nation’s infrastructure. The President’s budget includes a $200 million reduction to budget for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' (USACE), which is the principal body responsible for port maintenance. "For the past two years, the President has stressed the importance of investing in our ports, roads and bridges. Yet yesterday, he released this dramatic cut. We can’t just talk about our good intentions, we have to commit to investing in the resources that actually employ Americans, generate real revenue, and contribute to our national economy. Now is the time to invest in our ports and channels. We cannot afford to put it off for another year. To be competitive on a global market, we must prepare for the Panama Canal expansion and the only way to compete for the largest container and cargo ships in the world is to construct and manage deep-water ports and channels. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress as we continue the budget process and invest in national priorities.” ###
02.02.2015	(Houston, TX) – On Saturday, February 7th, Congressman Gene Green and City Councilman Ed Gonzalez invite Houstonians to recycle their unwanted electronics at Houston Community College Northline Campus in the south parking lot. Items will be accepted from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), in 2009, Americans discarded 2.37 million tons of electronic waste. Approximately 25 percent of those electronics were recycled; the other 75 percent were thrown in the garbage. Household electronics contain precious metals and harmful contaminates that, when thrown away, can seep into the environment causing harm to workers and nearby communities, and water sources. “As consumers it is our responsibility to dispose of our unwanted devices responsibly. It is tempting to just throw away our unwanted items, but we need to keep the long term in mind, and help preserve a healthy environment that can flourish for generations to come,” Green said. “Our goal with this event is to make it more convenient for constituents to recycle in their own neighborhood.” Acceptable items include: televisions, computers, printers, cell phones, gaming devices, toner cartridges, small appliances, household batteries, CDs, DVDs, tapes, and video devices. During the 113th Congress, Rep. Green introduced legislation to prohibit the export of restricted electronic waste to foreign countries. This legislation would make American companies responsible for recycling their E-waste in the U.S. creating more jobs for Americans and a safer environment for all. Please note the following items will not be accepted during the event: smoke alarms, large appliances, microwaves, paint cans, oil waste, vacuum cleaners, and fans. WHAT: E-waste Collection Drive WHEN: Saturday, February 7, 2015, 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. WHERE: HCC Northline Campus, South Parking Lot, 8001 Fulton Street, Houston, TX 77022 DETAILS: Congressman Green and City CouncilmanGonzalez invite community members to recycle old electronics. ###
11.14.2014	(Washington, DC) – On Friday, the House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 5682 to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline. The bill passed with a vote of 252-161. Congressman Gene Green released the following statement in response: “I’m pleased that H.R. 5682 passed the House of Representatives with overwhelming support, and it’s about time. The Keystone XL pipeline is the most scrutinized project in recent history; it’s become a political target. It’s a good thing we don’t build rail, highways, bridges or airports the way we are trying to build Keystone XL or we’d all be walking. Pipelines are like rail, roads, bridges, and airports, they tie our commerce together. America needs the KXL infrastructure to create a North American energy market and tie our energy markets together. We need the bill to pass both chambers, so that we can resolve this problem and focus on other important issues as we head into a new session of Congress.” ###
09.18.2014	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, President Obama’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) released a report on Combating Antibiotic Resistance. The President also released a report called National Strategy on Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria, and signed an executive order directing departments and agencies to take action against this growing threat. Congressman Gene Green stated: “The threat of resistance is too big to ignore, and unless swift and aggressive actions are taken, will have a devastating impact on public health. We’ve heard it from the World Health Organization, the United Kingdom, and now from President Obama. We welcome the Administration’s efforts to combat antibiotic resistance, but Congress must also act. We have the tools and authority to create a path for rapid development of safe and efficient new drugs. Drug resistance can be slowed, but it cannot be stopped. We have to act now.” For more than a decade, health experts have warned about the growing threat of drug-resistant bacteria or “superbugs” and called for new drugs to be developed. In 2012, Reps. Gene Green (D-TX) and Phil Gingrey (R-GA) authored and pushed the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now (GAIN) Act through Congress and it was signed into law as part of the FDA Safety and Innovation Act. GAIN incentivizes the development of new antibiotics to treat serious and life-threatening infections, and its implementation has been a success. However, it was only the first step. Much more needs to be done to combat the threat of superbugs. Green and Gingrey have already introduced the next step, H.R. 3742, the Antibiotic Development to Advance Patient Treatment (ADAPT) Act, which is scheduled for a hearing before the House Subcommittee on Health on September 19, 2014. ###
09.17.2014	(Washington, D.C.) - On Wednesday, the House Subcommittee on Energy and Power hosted a hearing on H.R. 4526, the 21st Century Energy Workforce Development Jobs Initiative Act of 2014. This bipartisan legislation, sponsored by Rep. Bobby Rush (D-IL) and cosponsored by Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) and nine others, would create pathways to opportunities for minorities in the energy sector. A recent study conducted by the American Petroleum Institute projects that the oil and natural gas industry will create over 800,000 jobs in the Gulf region by 2030. While the industry continues to grow, minorities—Hispanics, African Americans, and Native Americans—remain underrepresented making up only 9% of the current U.S. workforce in science and engineering fields. This bill would create more opportunities for education and training for minorities seeking energy jobs. “We’re really excited about this legislation. The creation of more training programs will build the workforce we need to meet the expansion of our booming energy industry,” Green said. “In Texas, we’ve been experiencing a shortage of workers in the energy sector for years. Thanks to the development of the Eagleford shale and the Permian Basin, we could recruit every journeyman electrician in the country, we would still have a shortage. We want our local constituency, those that live by these plants, to have the training to take these high paying jobs.” H.R. 4526 would create a new program directed by the Secretary of Energy that would foster direct assistance and partnerships with community colleges, minority serving institutions, workforce development organizations, as well as collaboration with the Secretaries of Labor and Education, and industry leaders. “The shortages in our area have already inspired a public-private partnership that we hope can serve as a model nationwide. The Community College PetroChemical Initiative (CCPI) includes nine community colleges, including San Jacinto College in my district that serves a student population that is over 46% Hispanic and over 56% female. We need to expand successes like CCPI across the nation.” Green said. ###
08.18.2014	(Houston, TX)—Monday, the National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC) presented Congressman Gene Green with its highest honor—the Distinguished Community Health Champion Award. This award is presented to select Members of Congress who have proven to be champions for wider access to primary care in our communities. Congressman Green received this award as a dedicated supporter of Community Health Centers for his work on legislation that increased federal funding for the Health Center Program, and for his commitment to ensuring that Texans in the 29th Congressional District have access to quality health care services. “I’m honored to receive this award,” Green said. “Community health centers are a vital part of our health care safety net and help families that have difficulty finding reliable, affordable health care. This is especially important in the 29th District where we have an underserved community and one of the highest rates of uninsured individuals in the country.” Since the Health Centers Program began, more than 1,000 federally qualified health centers operate more than 8,000 sites in all 50 states. Health centers represent the nation’s largest primary care system, serving as the medical home for 28 million individuals, with the mission of providing timely medical attention. The Health Champion Award was presented to Congressman Gene Green by NACHC, in conjunction with Texas Association of Community Health Centers (TACHC) and El Centro de Corazón during an event in the City of Houston’s Magnolia Multiservice Center. ###
07.09.2014	(Washington, D.C.)—Tuesday, the House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 4007, the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS) Program Authorization and Accountability Act on voice vote. This bill, introduced by Reps. Patrick Meehan, (R-PA), Gene Green (D-TX), and Michael McCaul (R-TX) authorizes CFATS through 2017. This program provides security regulations for high-risk chemical facilities. “Our District is home to one of the largest petrochemical complexes in the world,�? Green said. “Our constituents work in these plants and live and raise their families in the communities that surround them. It’s essential for Congress to authorize CFATS and continue to monitor DHS’ implementation of the program to ensure that workers and communities are safe from terrorist threats, and prevent future disasters like the explosion in West, Texas that killed 15 people last year.�? Originally introduced to prevent terrorist attacks on chemical plants, CFATS requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to sort sites into risk tiers and requires high-risk plants to submit confidential site security assessments to implement better security plans. DHS has already approved 1,100 chemical facility security plans. ###
06.27.2014	(Washington, D.C.) –On Wednesday, the House of Representatives voted to pass an amended version of H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act with a vote of 266-150. A bipartisan amendment introduced by Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) and bill sponsor Rep. Cory Gardner (R-CO) helped push the legislation through the House with support from both sides of the aisle. “The energy industry that has been driving the U.S. economy for years is rapidly changing, but unfortunately, our systems haven’t been able to keep up,” Green said. “The U.S. now produces an abundance of natural gas, much more than we can use, but the approval processes for export projects remains backlogged with some applications waiting more than 3 years. We can’t afford to lose this opportunity to expand the economy and create hundreds of thousands of jobs to a bureaucratic process. At the same time, it is important that we tread lightly and make smart, sound decisions based on environmental considerations and the public interest. We can’t be so hasty that we cut corners and bypass important protections.” In its original form, H.R. 6 would have automatically approved all pending export applications at the Department of Energy (DOE), and eliminated the public interest determination. The adopted Gardner-Green Amendment strikes those provisions and instead requires DOE to issue a public interest determination on applications 30 days after the NEPA environmental review has been completed. The House passed version of H.R. 6 benefits the U.S. economy, businesses, and consumers. It establishes a prompt and fair pathway for U.S. companies to begin export projects, which will generate revenue, foster job creation, benefit trading partners, and establish the U.S. as a global leader in exports. It protects domestic consumers and industries while modernizing the export permitting process to keep up with the modern U.S. energy industry. ###
06.24.2014	(Washington, D.C.)—On Tuesday, H.R. 3301, the North American Energy Infrastructure Act passed in the House of Representatives with majority support. This bipartisan legislation, authored by Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) and Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), creates a structural process for much needed cross-border infrastructure in North America. “The U.S. has an opportunity to form a unified North American energy market that will create jobs, grow the economy, and help us reduce our dependence on hostile or unstable nations,” Green said. “Unfortunately, the decision-making and the regulatory process associated with cross-border infrastructure has been bogged down by political calculations and obstructions. Our bill changes this process to reflect the realities of the North American energy sector and secure our energy needs well into the 21st century.” H.R. 3301 creates a specific time frame for the approval of cross-border facilities, while ensuring that they are environmentally safe and protective of the public interest. Specifically, it codifies into law a review for cross-border oil pipelines and electric transmission facilities under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), and charges the Department of State and the Department of Energy with conducting a full scale NEPA review at the national boundary before approving a pipeline or transmission line. ###
06.24.2014	(Washington, D.C.) –On Tuesday, H.R. 4080, the Trauma Systems and Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorization Act passed in the House of Representatives. The legislation, authored by Representatives Gene Green (TX-29) and Michael Burgess (TX-26), reauthorizes critical grant programs that provide funding to states to support the planning, implementing, and developing of trauma care systems, and establish pilot projects to design innovative models of emergency care systems. These grants are currently set to expire at the end of year. “These programs are very important to the health and safety of Americans around the country. Access to trauma care can mean the difference between life and death for so many who suffer severe traumatic injury, something that can happen to anyone, anywhere,” Green said. “We’re relieved that these programs will remain intact.” The Trauma Systems and Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorization Act authorizes appropriations for trauma care programs through FY2019, ensuring that investment and development of the most effective trauma care systems continues. ###
06.19.2014	(Houston, TX)—On June 10, 2014, Congressman Gene Green sent a letter to Chair of the EPA National Remedy Review Board (NRRB) Amy Legare, urging her to completely remove dioxin waste from the affected areas in the San Jacinto River. This has been an ongoing effort for Congressman Green and the Harris County Attorney’s Office. “These waste pits continue to be a public health threat, particularly for communities in Harris County and along the River. Residents have been advised not to drink water or eat seafood that may have come from the area because dioxin can do serious damage to a person’s immune system, and can also cause cancer and reproductive and developmental problems,” Green said. “This is no way to live. We need to take the strongest measure available to clean up the site.” Currently, the San Jacinto Waste Pits are partially submerged, and contained under a temporary cap near the western bank of the San Jacinto River, immediately north of the I-10 bridge. The pits were created in the mid-60’s by Champion Paper and McGinnes Industrial Maintenance, who filled the ponds with waste paper sludge from a local paper mill until 1968, when they were abandoned. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has proposed six possible cleanup solutions ranging from no further action to full removal of the pits and chemical cleanup. Congressman Gene Green’s letter to the NRRB calls for the strongest mediation proposal, which would permanently remove the dioxin waste from the site and protect local communities from the potential and actual threat that the waste pits pose. ###
06.19.2014	(Houston, TX) – Congressman Gene Green announced a Head Start grant award for the Harris County Department of Education in the 29th Congressional District of Texas from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) in the amount of $6.3 million. Head Start allows children in pre-school to receive assistance with reading, writing, and social development to help them excel in elementary school and beyond. This HHS grant will restore funding from previous cuts to this critical program. “The first five years of a child’s life are critical in ensuring his or her future and educational achievement. After working to ensure that programs like Head Start are funded, we’re glad to see Harris County receive this grant,” Congressman Gene Green said. “We have to continue to invest in our children and give them every opportunity to succeed.” Over the last decade, funding for Head Start has been severely cut. Often, families eligible for programs administered by Head Start are unable to receive them due to lack of funding. Grants such as this give states and local departments the ability to ensure early education for young children. ###
06.02.2014	(Washington, D.C.) –Today, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released their proposed rule to regulate carbon dioxide from existing fossil fuel-fired power plants. In response, Congressman Gene Green released the following statement: “While we would prefer that Congress set the agenda and design the plans for regulation, the EPA’s proposed rule seems reasonable. This plan acknowledging the reservations traditionally held by stakeholders, and the intricacies incorporated into each state’s power sector. It also offers states flexibility in design and implementation of the rule. This plan has an ambitious reduction goal that could help drive the use of natural gas, but it’s important to that we remain watchful and maintain the balance between environmental protection and economic stability.” ###
05.20.2014	(Houston, TX) – Over 400 participants attended Congressman Gene Green’s 12th Annual Job Fair which was held at San Jacinto College North Campus in partnership with Workforce Solutions, San Jacinto College North and the North Channel Area Chamber of Commerce. Participating employers and professional groups included: the City of Houston, Galena Park ISD, Houston Independent School District, Boasso America Corporation, Lowes, Harris County Toll Road Authority, Jacinto Port International, CVS/Caremark, Walgreens, Mission Foods, Concordia University, Johnny Carinos Restaurant, Houston Police Department, Harris County Department of Education, Gulf Stream Marine, Dow Emergency, Laborers International, Houston Area Plumbers and Joint Apprenticeship, Job Sparx, United States Steel, YMCA, Southwest Shipyard and Pasadena Police Department. “We saw people interviewing for job openings, and some were even hired to start immediately,” Green said. “This is why we do what we do. We’re happy when our local businesses partner with our communities and hire locally, that helps to build a stronger economy.” Job training professionals were also present to offer career assessments and employment counseling, as well as to assist with resume writing and interviewing techniques. “We were also glad to see so many young people in attendance. This is a good place for them to explore their options and get them connected with great companies,” Green said. ###
05.15.2014	(Washington, D.C.)— Today, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) to seek public input over the next four months on how best to promote an open Internet. Congressman Gene Green released the following statement in response: “We’re pleased that the FCC is taking more time to seek public input before making this very important decision, which will undoubtedly have lasting impacts on this growing industry going forward. The Internet is important to our nation’s economic growth, global competitiveness, innovation, education, and free expression. Big decisions like these— which have direct effects on our nation’s future—should remain in the hands of the American people, and those they’ve elected to represent their best interests in Congress. As the Commission decides its next step, we urge them to consider establishing consumer protections while avoiding the pitfalls that would come with a Title II, utility-like classification of broadband—including, stifling innovation and choking off investment. We look forward to further examining Internet broadband and our nation's telecommunications policy as a whole during the Energy and Commerce Committee's anticipated rewrite of the Communications Act." ###
05.14.2014	(Washington, D.C.)— Today, Congressman Gene Green released the following statement in response to the White House’s release of President Obama’s 21st Century Permitting Modernization plan: “Today the President released his implementation plan for review and permitting of new infrastructure to meet the demands of our nation’s growing 21st economy. We’re pleased that the plan builds on the Executive Order to work on permitting delays that are still stifling too many projects. Unfortunately, it was our hope that the President would put more emphasis on pipeline permitting. Neither the Department of State, nor the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has been involved and pipelines were only tacitly mentioned. Congress acted last week to improve application timelines and protect the environment by passing out of the House Energy and Commerce Committee the North American Energy Infrastructure Act—introduced by Chairman Fred Upton and me. The energy sector continues to drive the American economy, and pipelines are a key component of that success. Pipeline infrastructure has the potential and the industry backing to take America’s energy sector into the future, creating thousands more jobs, and alleviating the strain placed on a variety of states by energy bottlenecks, especially through partnership with our neighbors, Canada and Mexico. If we are serious about meeting our growing transportation needs, we need a new permitting plan that includes a streamlined and expedited review for pipeline construction and maintenance.” ###
05.09.2014	(Washington, D.C.)—Today, the First Focus Campaign for Children (FFCC), a bipartisan children’s advocacy group, recognized Congressman Gene Green for his leadership on issues important to children in 2013. In recognizing him as a Champion of Children, the advocacy group cited Congressman Green’s leadership on policy issues important to children’s growth and development. During the 113th Congress, he has continued to work on early childhood education expansion and introduced bipartisan legislation to stabilize the Children’s Health Insurance Program through continuous enrollment, which would help 19 million children nationwide who have unstable coverage. “We’re honored to be working alongside great organizations like the Campaign for Children to build a strong and stable future for children,” Green said. “We’re thankful for the hard work and dedication from groups like these and my colleagues in Congress who are also working toward this goal.” Bruce Lesley, president of the Campaign for Children said, “Lots of politicians talk about kids’ issues, but few back it up. Representative Green delivered for kids.” The Campaign for Children’s top federal priority areas include child health, child nutrition, early childhood education, child housing needs, reducing child poverty, family tax credits, addressing child abuse and neglect, and protecting the rights of immigrant children.
05.08.2014	(Washington, D.C.)—Today, members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee voted to pass an amended version of H.R. 3301, the North American Energy Infrastructure Act authored by Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) and Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI). The bill will create a structural process for the approval of cross-border oil pipelines and electric transmission facilities while protecting the environment, creating jobs and providing businesses certainty. “H.R. 3301 recognizes the energy revolution taking place on the North American continent and meets the new demands for trade between Canada, Mexico and the United States in an evolving, 21st Century economy,” Green said. “The United States is in a great position to lead a unified energy sector with its neighbors and allies that would benefit all three nations. The U.S. is already producing a surplus of oil and gas, Canada continues to develop huge amounts of domestic resources in addition to serving as our largest supplier of crude oil, meanwhile, Mexico, following recent reforms, is on the verge of receiving massive amounts of funding for future energy investments. Pipelines and electric transmission facilities would secure our energy needs, increase economic efficiencies that were created through NAFTA agreements, and build a new energy powerhouse in the Western Hemisphere.” H.R. 3301 creates a specific timeline for the approval of cross-border facilities, while ensuring they are environmentally safe and protective of the public interest. Specifically, it codifies into law a review for cross-border oil pipelines and electric transmission facilities under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), and charges the Department of State with conducting a full scale NEPA review at the national boundary before approving a pipeline or transmission line. Additionally, it would eliminate the ill-defined executive order process that has led to over five years of delay. “This bill creates an effective and responsible process for approving cross-border facilities while removing political calculations,” Green said. “I’m hopeful that we can continue to work with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle and gain bipartisan support for this important bill.” ###
05.06.2014	(Washington, D.C.)—A report released yesterday by the World Health Organization (WHO) heeds a dire warning that we will soon enter post-antibiotic-era—an age where a small cut or common cold could lead to hospitalization, and even death, surgery will be prohibitively dangerous, and the advances of modern medicine will be wiped out. The WHO’s report states that increasingly resistant bacteria—commonly referred to as “superbugs” —are developing and spreading around the world at a rapid pace, and even our ‘last resort antibiotic’ is now failing to treat infections. “This report confirms our worst fears; we need to act and we need to do it now,” Green said. “Resistance can and must be slowed, but it cannot be stopped. We continue to see a growing number of cases of extreme drug-resistant infections caused by superbugs. Meanwhile, there has been an equally alarming decline in the research and development of new antibiotics to deal with the crisis. To combat this perfect storm, we need reinvigorate investments in the development of a new generation of antibiotics. This is already a matter of life and death will only get worse; we must take immediate and aggressive action.” In response to this urgent public health crisis, Representatives Gene Green (D-TX) and Phil Gingrey (R-GA) introduced H.R. 3742, the Antibiotic Development to Advance Patient Treatment (ADAPT) Act to incentivize and accelerate the development of treatments for antibiotic-resistant bacterial infections, enhance resistance monitoring, and ensure providers have up-to-date information so current and future antimicrobials are effective for as long as possible. “Today’s WHO report only reinforces the need for Congress to act swiftly to combat the scourge of anti-bacterial resistant ‘superbugs,’” said Gingrey. “There has been improvement with the passage of the GAIN Act into law, but we must pass the ADAPT Act to provide more incentives for investment and innovation, and take the critical next step to fight these outbreaks. Rep. Green and I, along with our bipartisan coalition of supporters, will fight tirelessly to educate our colleagues on the need for further Congressional action to combat drug-resistant infections and give the medical community the necessary tools to fight them.” Barbara Murray, MD, President of the Infectious Disease Society of America (IDSA) said, “The threat of antibiotic resistance is very real, very scary, and not exaggerated. The Antibiotic Development to Advance Patient Treatment (ADAPT) Act would help reduce regulatory barriers to antibiotic research and development and speed access to lifesaving new antibiotics for patients with serious or life-threatening infections and unmet medical need.” ### Representatives Gene Green (D-TX) and Phil Gingrey (R-GA) introduced the Antibiotic Development to Advance Patient Treatment (ADAPT) Act in November 2013. The ADAPT Act is a successor of the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now (GAIN) Act, which was signed into law last year and has already helped to streamline 19 new antibacterial treatments through the FDA.
04.03.2014	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) –Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee considers H.R. 4080, the Trauma Systems and Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorization Act, introduced in February by Congressmen Gene Green (D-TX) and Michael Burgess (R-TX). “We can’t overemphasize the importance of this bill,” Green said. “Traumatic injury is the leading cause of death for Americans under the age of 45, and unfortunately, our current trauma care system remains inconsistent nationwide. Forty-five million people still lack access to trauma care during the “golden hour” after injury occurs when their life could depend on it. We’ve already made an important first step by creating these programs; we just have to make sure we continue to fund them.” H.R. 4080 would reauthorize two grant programs, the Trauma Care Systems Planning Grants and the Regionalization of Emergency Care Systems Grants. The first supports state and rural development of trauma systems and the second funds pilot regionalized systems of emergency care to create greater efficiency of emergency medical care and transport. Funding for these programs is set to expire at the end of the year. ###
03.28.2014	(Washington, D.C.)—Congressman Gene Green released the following statement in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) recent release of their strategy to reduce methane emissions, as part of President Obama’s Climate Action Plan. “While the strategy identifies four sectors as sources of methane emissions, it seems that the EPA is prioritizing the oil and gas sector. I am pleased that the EPA, the Department of Energy, and the Department of Interior are making working with industry a top priority, but I hope these agencies continue to recognize the significant progress that has already been made under voluntary programs and initiatives, and remain flexible and responsive to those efforts. Already, companies in the oil and gas sector are working to capture methane wherever possible. Methane is a product that can be marketed and sold, and industry understands that it makes economic and environmental sense to market this product. The best solutions will come from joint ventures and partnerships between industry, state and local officials, and federal agencies that incentivize the capturing and monitoring of emissions and promote the creation of and movement to markets.” ###
02.27.2014	(Houston, TX) – Representative Gene Green invites Texans to the first of many Joint Labor Job Fairs in the Houston area in partnership with State Senator Sylvia Garcia, Jacinto City Mayor Ana Diaz, City of Houston District I Councilman Robert Gallegos, Pct. 2 Constable Chris Diaz, Harris County AFL-CIO, and Gulf Coast Building Trades. “I’m pleased to be a partner in such a great initiative to bring union membership opportunities and jobs to Houstonians. It’s critical that we remain committed to creating opportunities for jobs locally.” Participating companies and unions will provide information about union membership and trades, and job placement opportunities for residents in the Gulf Coast region. Attendees will also be able to visit informational booths for information about apprenticeship programs. Additionally, the fair will host employers from a variety of industries that are looking to hire full and part-time employees immediately. This event is open to the public, and high school students are also encouraged to attend to learn more about scholarship opportunities and apprenticeship programs. Rep. Green, elected officials, and Labor Union representatives will also hold a joint press event during the Job Fair on Friday, March 7th at 5:00 p.m. WHAT: Joint Labor Job fair & Press Event WHEN: Friday, March 7 from 3-7 p.m. & Saturday, March 8 from 9 a.m. – 12 p.m. PRESS EVENT: Friday, March 7, 2014 at 5:00 p.m. WHERE: Jacinto City Town Center: 1025 Oates Road, Jacinto City, Texas, 77029 ###
02.26.2014	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) –Today, Representatives Gene Green (TX-29) and Michael Burgess (TX-26) introduced H.R 4080, The Trauma Systems and Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorization Act to enhance critical trauma systems in the U.S. H.R. 4080 would reauthorize two important grant programs, the Trauma Care Systems Planning Grants and the Regionalization of Emergency Care Systems Grants. The first supports state and rural development of trauma systems and the second funds pilot regionalized systems of emergency care to create greater efficiency of emergency medical care and transport. “Trauma is the leading cause of death for Americans under the age of 45,” Green said. “The even bigger tragedy is that many of these deaths could be prevented if victims had access to trauma care within an hour of a severe traumatic injury.” The ability to deliver trauma care services within an hour of injury can make the difference between life and death. Currently, authorization of these critical programs is set to expire at the end of the year. “The assumption that trauma care will always be there when we need it is sadly untrue,” Burgess said. “Forty-two states lack fully developed trauma systems. To let another system atrophy is to let the disparity between areas with access to trauma care and those that don’t increase until entire states lack critical care that will save its residents when the unthinkable happens. We cannot let that happen.” The Trauma Systems and Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorization Act is supported by the American Association of Neurological Surgeons, the American Association of Orthopedic Surgeons, the American Burn Association, the Association of Critical Care Transport the American College of Emergency Physicians, the American College of Surgeons, the American Trauma Society, the Congress of Neurological Surgeons, the Orthopedic Trauma Association and the Trauma Center Association of America. ### Reps. Gene Green and Michael Burgess serve on the House Energy and Commerce’s Subcommittee on Health.
02.26.2014	(Washington, D.C.) –On February 21, 2014 Representative Gene Green led a letter to President Barack Obama, undersigned by 31 Members of Congress, requesting a significant increase in funding for the Army Corps of Engineers in the President’s budget for Fiscal Year 2015. “I’ve represented the Port of Houston and the Houston Ship Channel for over 30 years now,�? Green said. “During that time I have seen a long line of economic successes surrounding the Port and the Channel, including a recent expansion of an Intermarine Operations Center. We’ve continued to expand, but our resources have not. We need to fund the Corps of Engineers adequately, it is necessary to our continued success.�? For more than a decade, funding levels for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have remained stagnant, and failed to meet the demand for investment and innovation that ports need to grow. Currently, ports generate approximately $3.2 billion in economic activity each year. In Texas, imports and exports support more than one million jobs, generate $175 billion in economic impact and are responsible for $4.5 billion in tax revenue. Increased funding would provide relief for the Houston Ship Channel and Port of Houston, and would allow new dredging and construction projects to begin. As the Panama Canal expansion reaches completion in 2016, the U.S. must invest in infrastructure needs to be able to handle increased traffic and larger ships. ### On February 21, 2014 Congressman Gene Green sent a letter to President Barack Obama appealing for higher funding for the Army Corps of Engineers. The letter is undersigned by 31 Members of Congress including: Rep. Gene Green (TX-29,) Rep. Corrine Brown (FL-5), Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-9), Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rep. Elijah Cummings (MD-7), Rep. Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53), Rep. Al Green (TX-9), Rep. Janice Hahn (CA-44), Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1), Rep. Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Rep. Jared Huffman (CA-2), Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13), Rep. Stephen Lynch (MA-8), Rep. Mike McIntyre (NC-7), Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-9), Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52), Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-1), Rep. Charlie Rangel (NY-13), Rep. Cedric Richmond (LA-2), Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), Rep. Gregorio Sablan (MP), Rep. John Sarbanes (MD-3), Rep. Bobby C. Scott (VA-3), Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41), Rep. Juan C. Vargas (CA-51), Rep. Filemon Vela (TX-34), Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL- 23), and Rep. Frederica Wilson (FL-24).
02.07.2014	(Houston, TX) – Congressman Gene Green invites Houston-area students and families to his “Paying for College Workshop” on Monday, February 10th at Chavez High School. This free financial aid seminar is designed to give students and their families the tools they need to plan for college. “In the Houston Independent School District, only about half of high school graduates go on to college. Of those who do, many are first generation college students who may not have any idea how to pay for college. For all parents and students, understanding how to finance higher education can be difficult. That’s why we hold these events twice a year, we want families to have access to the information and resources they need,” Green said. The Sallie Mae Fund will present about the financial aid process, finding scholarships, and choosing the right college or university. One high school senior will win a $500 scholarship from Sallie Mae during the event. Representatives from the U.S. Military Service Academies and several colleges including Rice University, University of Houston, Houston Community College, San Jacinto College, Devry University and Lone Star College will be available to share information about their institutions and answers questions. WHAT: Paying for College Workshop WHEN: Monday, February 10, 2014, 6:30 - 7:30 p.m. WHERE: Chavez High School, 8501 Howard Drive, Houston, TX 77017 DETAILS: Congressman Green invites students and families to a free financial aid seminar presented by The Sallie Mae Fund on financial aid, scholarships, and choosing colleges. Representatives from the U.S. Military Service Academies and several colleges will also be in attendance to present and answer questions. More information on this event can be found on Congressman Green’s website at https://green.house.gov/about/events or 281-999-5879. ###
01.31.2014	(Washington, D.C.) – Following State Departments release of the Environmental Impact Statement for Keystone XL, Congressman Gene Green issued the following statement in response: “I am pleased that the Department of State has released what I hope is the final Environmental Impact Statement related to the Keystone XL pipeline. This final EIS doesn’t tell us anything we didn’t already know, and comes 3 years after the fact. The political and bureaucratic process has bogged down this pipeline for too long and needs to be streamlined. The Presidential permitting process needs to be reformed. Working with colleagues from both sides of the aisle, I have introduced H.R. 3301, which would allow the import or export of commodities by pipeline, which compared to other forms of transportation, has been competitively disadvantaged. Pipelines are the safest, most economical way to move oil and gas, and I encourage the State Department to quickly finish its work and issue a permit so that we can finally move forward with this critical piece of infrastructure.” ###
01.07.2014	(Houston, TX) – On Monday, January 6, 2014, Congressman Gene Green led a discussion at the Houston Food Bank about cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and renewal of Emergency Unemployment Insurance. Joining the discussion were Brian Greene, Houston Food Bank President and Deon Hoffman, a local resident, recipient of SNAP and Houston Food Bank client. “As Congress begins a new session, it is necessary that restoring SNAP benefits is at the top of the agenda. SNAP recipients, most of whom are working families and seniors, were hit hard when automatic cuts took place on November 1st,” Green said. “SNAP doesn’t provide a comfortable living for recipients, it provides them with a means of survival. We cannot expect to have a healthy and vibrant democracy when our nation’s most vulnerable populations are worried about making it through the month.” In addition to harmful SNAP cuts, many Houstonians were also been set back by the expiration of Emergency Unemployment Insurance (EUI), which expired on December 28th, and left 1.3 million Americans, including 64,000 Texans, without the income and security their families depend on. “The House needs to restore this vital economic lifeline, which would allow more than 1 million Americans to support their families and pay their bills while they find work. Extending Unemployment Insurance, along with restoring SNAP benefits, will help get America’s families and our national economy back on their feet,” Green said. ###
12.13.2013	(WASHINGTON, D.C.)—Yesterday, Congressman Gene Green and Reps. Peter Roskam (R-IL), Michael McCaul (R-TX), and Daniel Lipinski (D-IL) introduced legislation to verifiably prevent a nuclear Iran. Last month’s announcement of an interim agreement between the Obama Administration and Iran set a six month window during which to negotiate a final deal over Iran’s nuclear program. The bipartisan resolution (H. Res. 445) states that any final nuclear agreement with Iran should fully dismantle Iran’s nuclear program—including its production of a nuclear warhead and ballistic missiles—and reduce Iran’s support for terrorism, human rights violations, persecution of religious minorities, and unjust imprisonment of American citizens. Furthermore, this legislation reaffirms the need for additional economic sanctions against Iran should it fail to meet the negotiated terms of the interim agreement within six months of implementing the deal. The lawmakers released the following statement on the legislation: “Preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapons capability is a moral and strategic imperative for the United States. We are deeply concerned that the interim agreement leaves Iran multiple paths to developing a nuclear weapon. However, we recognize a potential final, comprehensive agreement as an opportunity to once and for all verifiably prevent a nuclear Iran. But this isn’t just about nuclearization. Iran continues to develop long-range ballistic missiles, finance the world’s most dangerous terrorist organizations, commit heinous human rights abuses on its own citizens, persecute religious minorities, and hold innocent Americans captive. We are therefore pleased to introduce this bipartisan legislation, which takes a resolute stand against the Iranian regime and its pursuit of nuclear weapons.” ###
12.12.2013	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) – Reps. Gene Green (D-TX), Phil Gingrey, M.D., (R-GA), G.K. Butterfield, (D-NC), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Morgan Griffith (R-VA), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), John Shimkus (R-IL), and Ed Whitfield (R-KY) today introduced The Antibiotic Development to Advance Patient Treatment (ADAPT) Act of 2013. This legislation is a successor to the GAIN Act, introduced by Green, Gingrey and others, and signed into law last year. The ADAPT Act advances drug development in order to combat the growing public health threat of “superbugs,” which the Center for Disease Control (CDC) warned of earlier this year. Rep. Gene Green: “I am proud to be joined by health policy leaders from both sides of the aisle in introducing this important bill, especially my friend Representative Phil Gingrey. For decades, antibiotics have been taken for granted, but their effectiveness is waning and the pipeline for new drugs is running dry. We need to invest in new, effective antibiotic therapies in order to combat serious and life-threatening drug-resistant infections. The ADAPT Act, will build on the success of the GAIN Act, and serve as the next important step in advancing the development of new antibiotics.” Rep. Phil Gingrey, M.D.: “Since the GAIN Act was signed into law, it has played an important role in restoring antibiotic development. The ADAPT Act is an important next step in the effort to fight antimicrobial resistance, and I’m grateful for Congressman Green’s and my other colleagues’ efforts on this legislation. As a physician for more than 30 years, I understand the critical need for life-saving medical treatments. The ADAPT Act provides incentives for investment and innovation and is another step forward in developing treatments for patients with antibiotic-resistant infections.” Rep. Eliot Engel: “Antibiotic resistance is a serious and growing threat in the United States and across the world. This important legislation gives the Food and Drug Administration the ability to quickly approve medications specifically designed to treat drug resistant bacteria. Having actively worked for years to stop the spread of drug-resistant tuberculosis and having seen its tremendously damaging impact, it is important to give the FDA another tool in the fight to treat Americans stricken by these dangerous “superbugs.” Rep. Anna Eshoo: “This bill is an important next step in in our effort to address antibiotic resistance. Patients are in need of new drugs to treat increasingly common infections and it’s critical that we stay a step ahead of the next drug-resistant threat. The ADAPT Act will help us get there.” Rep. John Shimkus: “This bipartisan group of members recognized the need to get more life saving antibiotics available to the public and helped accomplish that goal by getting the GAIN Act included in law. GAIN 2.0 looks to build on the successes we have already seen as a result of our previous efforts by providing a expedited pathway at FDA for approval of certain antibiotics while at the same time gathering valuable information on the resistance of these drugs and how they are being used.” Rep. Morgan Griffith: “I believe very strongly that, when battling deadly diseases, patients and their physicians need more choices. Our great nation boasts an array of companies and individuals that are working hard to develop new treatments and therapies. The ADAPT Act will further innovation, and ultimately will provide new, antibiotic options in the fight against superbugs.” Rep. G.K. Butterfield: “The CDC has confirmed that new treatment options are critical to combating drug resistant infections. The ADAPT Act will help to speed new drug treatments to market for people suffering from life-threatening infections. I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing this bill that will help to safeguard the American public.” About the legislation The ADAPT Act of 2013 is the successor to the GAIN Act and advances drug development in three ways: 1. Develops a new, accelerated pathway for antibiotics and antifungals: This pathway provides for FDA-approval of drugs in order to treat emerging threats in limited and specific patient populations. 2: Strengthens resistance monitoring by the CDC: The CDC will also monitor use of antibiotics to treat serious and life-threatening infections and make this data publically available to providers, hospitals, and academics. 3. Updates Susceptibility Test Interpretive Criteria for Microbial Organisms or “breakpoints": The ADAPT Act streamlines the antibiotics labeling process at the FDA to ensure up-to-date and cutting-edge data is available to healthcare professionals. ###
11.20.2013	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) –Today, Congressmen Gene Green (D-TX), Filemon Vela (D-TX), and Pete Gallego (D-TX) voted against H.R. 2728, which would require the Department of Interior, a federal agency, to defer to state regulations for all activities related to hydraulic fracturing used to produce oil and gas on federal land. Additionally, the Department of Interior would not be allowed to enforce any federal regulation on federal lands under the Department’s jurisdiction. Rep. Gene Green stated, “Natural gas development continues to be a vital economic driver in Texas. While I continue to be an advocate for expanded development of our domestic resources, I am also a firm believer in property rights.” “In Texas, we would not want the federal government telling us what to do with state land, so I have a hard time supporting the idea of states telling the federal government what to do with their lands,” said Green. “While we have minimal federal lands in Texas, I know this an issue for many western states and would be happy to work with any of my colleagues to establish a working partnership between the federal government and the states to ensure that we can access, develop, and bring to market our domestic energy supplies.” "While I support this legislation's goal of preventing unreasonable bureaucratic regulations being placed on hydraulic fracturing, I am troubled by the fact that federal law would be preempted by state law on federal lands," said Rep. Vela. “There is a right way and a wrong way to streamline the permitting process. However, this bill is the wrong way. It creates too many legal issues that will slow our system down. There is always reasonable middle ground - but this bill is not it,” said Rep. Pete Gallego. ###
10.31.2013	Houston – Congressman Gene Green expressed his concern about cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) beginning November 1, 2013. The 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act temporarily increased SNAP benefits to help families during the economic recession. Without reauthorization, the scheduled cut will result in a reduction in benefits of $36 per month for a family of four. In Harris County, this cut amounts to $68.5 million over the next eleven months, resulting in 26.8 million less meals. Rep. Green stated, “Sixty-five percent of Harris County SNAP recipients are children or seniors. I am extremely concerned that this substantial reduction will leave many of them unsure of how they will put food on the table and aggravate the problem of hunger and malnutrition in our nation.” After cuts take effect, benefits will average less than $1.40 per person, per meal. The cuts will affect nearly 48 million SNAP recipients – 87 percent of whom live in households with children, seniors, or people with disabilities. ###
10.30.2013	Washington – Congressman Gene Green released the following statement after the Social Security Administration announced today that there will be a 1.5% Cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) for Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) beneficiaries for 2014. Texas has 3.6 million Social Security beneficiaries including retired workers, disabled workers, widowers and dependents. In the 29th District, 70,446 recipients will benefit from the increase. “I’m glad to hear that there will be another cost-of-living adjustment for seniors and beneficiaries next year. There are over 2.5 million Social Security beneficiaries over the age of 65 in Texas that depend on Social Security and for many of them, Social Security is the basis of their monthly income. The fact that Medicare Part B premiums will not change is also great for seniors.” Medicare Part B premiums and deductibles will not change for 2014, resulting in greater savings for beneficiaries. For more information, visit the Social Security Administration website at www.ssa.gov/pressoffice/pr/2014cola-pr.html. ###
10.23.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) joined Representatives Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Dr. Phil Gingrey (R-GA), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Greg Walden (R-OR), and G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) in introducing the Sensible Oversight for Technology which Advances Regulatory Efficiency (SOFTWARE) Act to provide regulatory clarity regarding mobile medical applications, clinical decision support, electronic health records, and other health care related software. By building on the guidance recently released by the FDA and codifying their risk based regulatory approach this important legislation provides the regulatory certainty that technology companies need in order to continue to drive innovation and ensure patient safety. Estimates indicate that the number of consumers using medical apps on their smart phones will grow to 500 million by 2015. But today the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) lacks the necessary tools to appropriately oversee these innovative products without overstepping their authority and stifling innovation. Under current law, the FDA could use its definition of a medical device to assert broad regulatory authority over a wide array of software. The SOFTWARE Act tailors their authority to the realities of the 21st century by focusing their authority onto the products that pose a potential risk to human health. Rep. Gene Green: “As new technologies emerge, it’s important that federal regulatory agencies like the FDA are properly equipped to provide a common sense level of oversight of medical software. This bill builds on the steps forward made by the FDA in their recently released guidance and focuses federal resources on the medical software that pose a risk to patients and should be trusted to be safe and effective by patients and providers alike. This bill aims to encourage innovation in medical related software while providing the regulatory framework to keep us safe.” Rep. Marsha Blackburn: “Our legislation takes the necessary steps to protect technological innovation that is filtering into growth sectors like health care. This bill would provide the FDA with the tools it needs to effectively protect consumers who use high risk technologies, while allowing the innovation of low risk technologies to continue without being caught up in the expensive and time consuming FDA approval process all while protecting patient safety. Technology and connectivity is sweeping into nearly every industry, revolutionizing the products and services we rely on and it is imperative that we work to encourage the continued development of new technologies to improve healthcare and create new jobs.” Dr. Phil Gingrey: “Health care delivery will continue to be impacted by the advent of new technology, specifically with health care software. This bill provides innovators clear regulatory guidelines that allows for breakthrough medical advancements and innovation. As a physician, I’ve seen firsthand the benefits of life-changing medical software and applications that better support doctors, manage disease, and ultimately, save patients’ lives.” Rep. Diana DeGette: “As technological advances change the face of medicine in the 21st century, the FDA is hamstrung with outdated tools that limit oversight and could ultimately stifle innovation. This bill will help create a regulatory framework that ensures emerging technologies are effective and secure, while protecting patient safety. The SOFTWARE Act is also a great example of bipartisan cooperation paving the way for a stronger, healthier future for our country.” Rep. Greg Walden: “Every day, innovative pioneers in the mobile health sector are working on solutions that help patients while reducing health care costs. The app economy is characterized by low barriers to entry, quick time to market, and the ability to adapt to quickly changing user needs. Medical devices, on the other hand, face a long and costly pre-market approval process at the FDA. We all want to ensure patient safety, but why would we treat mobile applications the same as a dialysis machine? Our common-sense legislation gives regulatory clarity to this innovative industry while focusing efforts on potential risks to human health.” Rep. G. K. Butterfield: “In rural areas like many I represent, access to care can be a challenge. Smartphone apps can help individuals better monitor their health and improve health outcomes when used in conjunction with the tools available to healthcare providers. With more than 40 million people gaining access to affordable health care thanks to the Affordable Care Act, the use of mobile healthcare applications will only continue to rise. That’s why it’s important that the FDA be given clear direction from Congress moving forward.” According to a recent report, there are currently 97,000 mobile health apps in the Apple app store that generate 3 million free and 300,000 paid downloads. 15 percent of these apps are designed specifically for health care providers and over 60 percent of doctors are using tablets – compared to half of that just over a year ago. Click here to read the full bill text of the SOFTWARE Act. ###
10.23.2013	Washington, DC – House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) and Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) today formally introduced bipartisan legislation to modernize and reform the approval process for energy infrastructure projects that cross the borders of the United States. At the time of introduction, H.R. 3301, the North American Energy Infrastructure Act, had 15 cosponsors, including 7 Republicans and 8 Democrats. The Subcommittee on Energy and Power, chaired by Rep. Ed Whitfield (R-KY), will hold a hearing to examine the legislation next Tuesday, October 29, 2013. The North American Energy Infrastructure Act will create a clear regulatory approval process for U.S. cross-border oil pipelines, natural gas pipelines, and electric transmission lines, replacing the current system set forth in a series of Executive Orders created in an ad hoc fashion over multiple administrations. It will bring much-needed certainty to the process for constructing or modifying cross-border projects and help encourage investment in new job-creating energy infrastructure projects needed to transport North America’s growing energy supplies. The bill introduced today specifically addresses how currently pending applications shall be handled and creates an effective date for the legislation of July 1, 2015. “This commonsense, bipartisan legislation is an important step in our overall effort to build the United States’ new architecture of abundance. In the past, it has taken years to get cross-border approvals and this regulatory uncertainty has stymied the development and expansion of important energy infrastructure projects. As America’s energy production continues to increase, a more modern and efficient approval process is becoming increasingly necessary. Moving forward, this bill will restore certainty and help eliminate barriers to investment and construction, encouraging job growth and bringing us closer to North American energy independence,” said Upton. “This bill strikes the right balance in that it ensures a timely review of the approval to cross our national boundary but does not affect any of the important environmental reviewing and permitting that is needed to actually construct or site the project,” added Green. To view a copy of H.R. 3301, click HERE. To view of summary of the legislation, click HERE. A Majority Memorandum, a witness list, and witness testimony for next week’s hearing will be available here as they are posted. ###
10.10.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green gave remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives on how the government shutdown is harming the people of Houston and the State of Texas. A copy of his remarks submitted to the Congressional Record is below: Mr. Speaker, here we are 10 days into Republican shutdown of government services. Now they want to hold the full faith and credit of our country hostage. This is how it’s hurting the Houston-area economy: Over 3,100 NASA employees at Johnson Space Center in Houston have been furloughed as a result of the House Majority’s refusal to keep the government open. The Small Business Administration has closed its Houston office and is unable to issue grants, loans, or provide consulting to small business owners who need guidance during this rough time. Houston’s regional VA Center has closed. The government shutdown has forced the VA to furlough over 9,000 employees – delaying processing for VA benefits. If the shutdown continues into late October, payments for more than 3.8 million veterans will stop. We owe it to our nation’s veterans to make good on our commitments to them. We can’t do this with closed facilities. Mr. Speaker, every day this shutdown is hurting our economy and now threatens our full faith and credit. We cannot negotiate “not paying” our bills that this Congress voted to spend.
10.09.2013	On October 2, 2013, Congressman Gene Green issued a statement in the Congressional Record to voice his opposition to H.J. Res. 72, the Veterans Benefits Continuing Appropriations Resolution. The piecemeal approach would cut $6 billion from the VA budget that was approved by Congress in June 2013. Congressman Green voted in favor of the original budget, H.R. 2216, and was one of 197 Democrats and 1 Republican that voted against the reduced budget. A copy of his statement is below: Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.J. Res. 72, the partisan resolution that would cut over $6 billion from our nation’s veterans. There are many issues that divide our two parties. One of the issues that has always received bipartisan support is supporting our nation’s heroes and their families. Unfortunately, due to the extreme views of some in the Majority, this chamber is now considering a resolution which would cut $6.2 billion from the VA and excludes funding for several VA programs which are vital to the thousands of veterans in my district, including national veterans’ cemeteries, VA construction, and grants for state veterans homes and state cemeteries. Mr. Speaker, our nation’s veterans deserve better and I call on this chamber to demand a vote to fully fund the VA for the entire year. Every day that goes by without providing full appropriations for the VA is another day that our veterans are being harmed and denied the support and services they paid for in blood, sweat, and sacrifice. Thank you and I yield the balance of my time.
10.08.2013	Washington – On September 25, House Energy and Commerce Committee leaders unveiled a draft of bipartisan legislation to reform the approval process for energy infrastructure projects that cross the borders of the United States. The North American Energy Infrastructure Act, co-sponsored by Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) and Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), would consolidate and modernize the cross-boundary permitting process for oil pipelines, natural gas pipelines, and electric transmission lines, replacing and superseding the current processes that have been created in an ad hoc fashion by multiple Executive Orders. North America is in the midst of an energy renaissance, and new infrastructure is needed to transport the growing energy supply and ensure consumers have access to affordable and reliable energy. This legislation will bring more certainty to the process for constructing or modifying job-creating energy infrastructure projects with respect to North American border-crossing permitting decisions. “This bill will bring much-needed structure to the cross-border permitting process while also importantly ensuring that these projects still must go through all relevant environmental review before actually being constructed. I am proud to join Chairman Upton in this effort and look forward to swift passage in the House and Senate,” said Green. “The goal of North American energy independence is finally within our reach, but our next challenge is building the infrastructure needed to harness this newfound energy abundance,” said Upton. “This bipartisan legislation will restore certainty and ensure future cross-border energy projects are reviewed and approved in a reasonable manner so we can move forward and build the architecture of abundance necessary to fulfill our energy future.” The Energy and Power Subcommittee, chaired by Rep. Ed Whitfield (R-KY), was scheduled to hold a hearing to examine the legislation on Wednesday, October 2, 2013. The hearing was delayed due to the government shutdown. A copy of the legislation, the Majority Memorandum, a witness list, and witness testimony will be available here as they are posted. ###
10.04.2013	Today Congressman Gene Green submitted a Statement for the Record in honor of National Manufacturing Day, held every October 4: Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the tens of thousands of men and women who work in one of the fastest growing manufacturing regions in America, Houston and Harris County, Texas. In my district, which covers much of the Port of Houston and the Houston Ship Channel, there are over 125 chemical manufacturers, refiners, and supporting facilities, employing over 33,000 people. The chemical, oil and gas industries are the new face of manufacturing in America and Houston, as the Energy Capital of the World, has benefitted from the energy renaissance taking place in Texas and the Gulf Coast. As a result, Houston has been the national leader in job creation in recent years and was named America’s #1 exporting region by the Commerce Department in July, sending over $110 billion in manufactured exports overseas. I proudly stand with America’s manufacturing sector, which is the backbone of our nation’s economy and our middle class and look forward to this chamber taking up legislation this Congress to provide the support and statutory clarity our manufacturers need to continue being the international leader in innovation and exports. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and I yield the balance of my time.
09.30.2013	Washington – With only hours left ahead of the looming October 1 deadline for Congress to pass a continuing appropriations resolution to fund the federal government, Congressman Gene Green expressed his frustrations and submitted the following statement to the official Congressional record: “Mr. Speaker, here we are, within hours of shutting down most of the programs that this Congress has approved or funded. Do my Republican friends know how silly it sounds to threaten shutting down “Mr. Speaker, here we are, within hours of shutting down most of the programs that this Congress has approved or funded. Do my Republican friends know how silly it sounds to threaten shutting down the government just to ensure that Member of Congress, our staff and White House staff don’t receive the same health care benefits as other federal employees do? To gamble with valuable federal programs should be embarrassing. Here are just a few examples of programs that will be affected if the GOP pursues this strategy that I doubt they’d want to see happen. The GOP shutdown would mean that the Centers for Disease Control would be unable to support annual seasonal influenza program. Also, in the event of H7N9 influenza or Middle East Respiratory Syndrome related incident, preparation and response could be delayed. The GOP shutdown means we will rely more on foreign energy as the issuance of permits for energy production on federal lands stop. I certainly know that my Republican colleagues wouldn’t want to see that happen. Head Start centers around the country will close. During FY12, an estimated 1,600 Head Start agencies served over 950,000 children, including 71,963 children in Texas. Apparently, our children are okay to target in this political debate as well. Under the GOP shutdown, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives will be affected and gun permits will not be processed. And very importantly, veterans’ educational, compensation, and pension benefits processing would likely be delayed, as happened in the 1995-96 shutdowns. Texas has the second highest number of veterans in the country at nearly 1.7 million. To make this even more unreasonable, the Affordable Care Act, which you hate, will continue to go forward even if you shut down the United States Government since it’s mandatory spending. Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to be reasonable and pass a clean CR. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and I yield back the balance of my time.”
09.30.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – On September 26, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) and Congressman Bob Latta (R-OH) introduced H.R. 3196, bipartisan legislation to remove the unnecessary and costly integration ban while maintaining the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) ability to regulate set-top boxes in the future. “I appreciate Rep Latta's leadership on this issue and am proud to introduce this legislation with him,” said Congressman Green. “The bill will unleash new innovative solutions by ridding the rule books of an antiquated tech mandate. At the same time, the bill is a surgical approach that preserves FCC authority in the retail set top box market.” “By one estimate, the prohibition has cost cable operators and consumers more than $1 billion since it went into effect in 2007. In today’s ultra competitive video marketplace, cable operators have no incentive to make it more difficult for their customers to use their preferred devices to access their video programming services,” Congressman Latta said. BACKGROUND: In 2007, the FCC required cable operators to separate the security functions formerly integrated into set top boxes from the tuning and navigation (i.e., channel changing). In response, cable operators developed a security module called a CableCARD that contained the security information necessary for a subscriber to receive service on a box purchased at retail. The idea was that separating out the security function would foster a retail market by enabling a consumer to buy a box that could be used with any cable system anywhere in the country once the consumer obtained a CableCARD from the local operator. The FCC also determined that that a retail market would not develop effectively if cable operators could continue to lease their boxes with integrated security. To ensure that cable operators would not undermine the separate security regime by, for example, designing new services that would only work with boxes that had integrated security, the FCC adopted the “integration ban” that required operators to use CableCARDs in the boxes they lease to consumers. The integration ban is not mandated by statute nor was this the congressional intent, and since its adoption, it has not generated demand for retail devices. ###
09.30.2013	Friday, September 27, 2013 – Congressman Morgan Griffith (R-VA), Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), and Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) participated in a series of Energy and Commerce hearings on the drug compounding issue. They recently introduced the Compounding Clarity Act (H.R. 3089), and today signed on as cosponsors of the Drug Quality and Security Act. The Drug Quality and Security Act, which incorporates some of the Compounding Clarity Act, is a bipartisan, bicameral first step to help ensure the safety of compounding drugs. It also will work to prevent a national public health crisis like the 2012 fungal meningitis outbreak tied to the New England Compounding Center (NECC). 64 deaths and 750 confirmed cases of fungal meningitis resulted from tainted steroid injections from the NECC.Rep. Griffith said, “The Drug Quality and Security Act is a first step at clarifying current law. It eliminates perceived confusion that existed as a result of court decisions on advertising related to compounding drugs and adopts the notification provisions that were in the Griffith-Green-DeGette Compounding Clarity Act. The Drug Quality and Security Act leaves a large portion of existing law intact. It also leaves many areas of practice where clarification may still be needed, particularly as it relates to office use, repackaging, and nuclear pharmacies. Along with my colleagues, I will continue working to oversee the FDA’s interpretation and implementation of this law.” Rep. Green said, “The Drug Quality and Security Act is a positive step forward toward enhancing public health and ensuring that compounded drugs are safe and dependable. I am proud to have worked with my colleagues Reps. Griffith and DeGette in pressing for enhanced FDA oversight of compounding. While I believe the FDA dropped the ball with regards to the NECC, with this law they must succeed where in the past they failed. This bill still lacks clarity in many important areas: office use, how nuclear pharmacies are regulated, and repackaging of sterile products. I look forward to working with my colleagues to provide meaningful oversight of the FDA to make sure another NECC type outbreak never happens again and to make sure they are using the type of enforcement discretion necessary to preserve patients’ access to critical medicine.”Rep. DeGette said, “The deadly fungal meningitis outbreak that sickened hundreds across the United States last year represented a tragic failure of the compounding drug manufacturing system and made clear we must have a stronger and more effective regulatory framework to oversee that system. That is why I was proud to join with my friends and colleagues Congressmen Griffith and Green earlier this month in introducing legislation that ultimately served as a foundation for the Drug Quality and Security Act introduced today. Today’s bipartisan, bicameral bill will take important steps forward to develop a more robust regulatory framework that can save people’s lives. I know my colleagues and I look forward to the passage of this bill and to continuing to work to ensure we take every step possible to secure the compounding drug manufacturing chain, and protect the lives of American patients.” ###
09.26.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. Gene Green reintroduced his Buffalo Bayou National Heritage Area Act (H.R. 3185) to continue his efforts in having Houston’s own Buffalo Bayou designated as a National Heritage Area. If passed, H.R. 3185 would be the final step in designating the 25-mile stretch of the Houston Ship Channel as the first National Heritage Area in Texas. The legislation would provide the tourism benefits of National Heritage Area federal recognition without placing any restrictions on land or commerce, and has received bipartisan support from fellow Houston Representatives Pete Olson, Sheila Jackson Lee, Al Green, and Steve Stockman. The City Councils of Houston, Baytown, Pasadena, Deer Park, Galena Park, and LaPorte have all passed a resolution of support for the National Heritage Area designation. Other stakeholders, including the Port of Houston, East Harris County Manufacturers Association (EHCMA), and other industry and economic development groups are also supportive of the bill.Rep. Gene Green stated, “Buffalo Bayou has a long history of significance for the state and nation, from the Battle of San Jacinto, where Texas won its independence from Mexico, to driving our national economy today as one of the biggest energy and petrochemical complexes in the U.S. I’m proud to reintroduce this bill to have Buffalo Bayou be the first National Heritage Area in Texas. It’s a great opportunity to honor the historical significance of Buffalo Bayou and the Houston Ship Channel and also spur economic growth through tourism.” A National Heritage Area is a place designated by Congress where natural, cultural, historic and scenic resources combine to form a cohesive, nationally distinctive landscape arising from patterns of human activity shaped by geography. These patterns make National Heritage Areas representative of the national experience through the physical features that remain and the traditions that have evolved in them. In 2002, Congressman Green and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison’s Buffalo Bayou National Heritage Study Act commissioned a study by the National Park Service. The report, released in 2010, determined that the Buffalo Bayou area is eligible for National Heritage Area designation. A copy of the study can be found here. ###
09.25.2013	Washington – Congressman Green applauded the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announcement today that the new Health Insurance Marketplace in Texas will host significant choices and lower than expected premiums. According to a new report released today, Texas consumers will be able to choose from an average of 54 health plans in the Marketplace. Houston-Brazoria area consumers will be able to choose from among 46 qualified health plans. Premiums nationwide will also be around 16 percent lower than originally estimated by the Congressional Budget Office. Approximately 6 out of 10 uninsured individuals will be able to find coverage for $100 or less per month in the Marketplace. For a family of four in Texas with an income of $50,000 per year, the lowest bronze plan would cost only $57 per month, taking into account premium tax credits and Medicaid coverage. For a family of four in the Houston-Brazoria area with an income of $50,000 per year, the lowest bronze plan would cost only $52 per month. Congressman Gene Green stated, “This is great news. The Affordable Care Act was passed to give individuals and families access to affordable and quality health care options. Millions of Texans have already benefitted through the end of discrimination for pre-existing conditions, allowing young adults to stay on their parent’s health insurance plan, scrutinizing unreasonable premium increases, covering preventive services with no deductible or co-pay, and more. The Health Insurance Marketplace is the most important component and I’m glad to see the roll out going so well.”HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius stated, “We are excited to see that rates in the Texas Marketplace are even lower than originally projected,” said Secretary Sebelius. “In the past, consumers were too often denied or priced-out of quality health insurance options, but thanks to the Affordable Care Act consumers will be able to choose from a number of new coverage options at a price that is affordable.” Open enrollment in the Marketplace will begin October 1 and run through March 2014. Coverage begins as early as January 1, 2014. Consumers can get help finding Marketplace coverage through www.HealthCare.gov or www.cuidadodesalud.gov. They can also call 1-800-318-2596 toll free to speak with a trained customer service representative with translation services available in 150 languages. ###
09.12.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Congressman Morgan Griffith (R-VA), and Congresswoman Diana DeGette (D-CO) today introduced the Compounding Clarity Act (H.R. 3089), bipartisan legislation that would clarify Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authority over compounding, particularly large-scale entities like the New England Compounding Center (NECC) that act as drug manufacturers. Nationwide, there were 64 deaths and 750 confirmed cases of fungal meningitis resulting from tainted steroid injections. Congressman Green said, “For the last several weeks, a bipartisan and bicameral group of lawmakers have been meeting to make sure we never relive the tragedy of the 2012 fungal meningitis outbreak that originated in a compounding pharmacy in Massachusetts. Congressman Griffith and Congresswoman DeGette have been exceptional leaders on addressing this public health threat and I believe this bill is a good step in that direction. These discussions have been productive and are ongoing, and by dropping this bill we are keeping the pressure on House leadership and maintaining the momentum we have built.”Congressman Griffith said, “As we approach the anniversary of the fungal meningitis outbreak that devastated so many families across the nation including Southwest Virginia, it is vital for Congress to take action to prevent another public health crisis. Since the outbreak, I have been working hand-in-hand with my friends across the aisle on a legislative solution that we are proud to be introducing today. This bipartisan proposal would prevent another NECC-type outbreak from occurring and ensuring the quality and safety of all compounded drugs in the country. The Compounding Clarity Act also requires the FDA to better communicate with state boards of pharmacy, and safeguards our local community pharmacies who were not at fault in last year’s outbreak from burdensome federal regulations. I am grateful to Congressman Green and Congresswoman DeGette for their partnership and dedication, and look forward to our continued work on this issue.”Congresswoman DeGette said, “Almost a year has passed since a deadly fungal meningitis outbreak sickened hundreds across the United States. This rare incident was traced to contaminated steroid injections produced by a so-called compounding pharmacy. The outbreak, and subsequent troubling incidents, highlight the need for a stronger and more effective regulatory framework to oversee the compounding pharmacy system. That is why today I am pleased to join with my friends and colleagues Congressmen Griffith and Green to introduce the Compounding Clarity Act, a critical step in working to prevent these types of deadly outbreaks in the future. This bill represents a bi-partisan effort to develop a more robust regulatory framework that can save people’s lives and I look forward to working together to see it become law.”BACKGROUND: According to FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg, the FDA’s ability to take action against large-scale entities that exceed the bounds of traditional pharmacy compounding and pose risks to patients has been hampered by ambiguities in the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA). While claiming they were exempt from FDA oversight, NECC had long ago ceased operating as a traditional compounding pharmacy and were clearly engaged in illegal drug manufacturing. To clarify FDA’s authority, the Compounding Clarity Act replaces section 503A of the FDCA with a new regulatory framework for traditional compounding pharmacies. The legislation removes the constitutional concerns about advertising that were raised in court cases that created ambiguities that the agency had cited. The Compounding Clarity Act protects traditional pharmacies by clarifying FDA's role in regulating compounding. Under the legislation, traditional pharmacies will continue to remain under the jurisdiction of state boards of pharmacy and remain exempt from FDA’s manufacturing authority. The bill protects access to the customized, compounded medications that patients need. Chiefly, all compounding must be done pursuant to a patient-specific prescription, while allowing for anticipatory compounding based on a preexisting relationship with a patient or doctor. Recognizing a need for uniform quality, the legislation also establishes an enforceable safety standard for all compounded drugs. The legislation also maintains the important practice of office use where drugs can be dispensed to hospitals, doctors’ offices, and other healthcare settings to administer before an identified patient is known. However, once these compounded drugs are administered to a patient, a prescription or patient name must be reconciled back to the pharmacy within 7 days. The legislation also draws a volume limitation on the practice that both protects public health, while maintaining patient access to these drugs, especially in border regions. Given the concerns that FDA received numerous complaints from state boards about NECC and failed to act on them or alert other concerned state boards, the Compounding Clarity Act requires the timely implementation of a notification system to allow for meaningful communication with the state boards of pharmacy; submissions of concerns relating to the products and practices of compounding pharmacies; and facilitation of appropriate inspections and/or enforcement actions from the FDA. Finally, the legislation clarifies FDA’s authority over the large-scale compounding entities, or outsourcing facilities, by outlining new federal requirements. Outsourcing facilities are compounding entities that exceed the legislation’s volume limitations and would now be subject to annual registration; reporting and listing of the drugs they compound; labeling; adverse event reporting; inspections and user fees. Text of the Compounding Clarity Act is below. ###
09.11.2013	Washington, DC – In response to President Obama’s speech on Tuesday evening regarding diplomatic solutions to addressing Syria’s use of chemical weapons, Congressman Gene Green released the following statement: “I’m glad President Obama announced that he would let diplomatic efforts proceed to safeguard Syria's chemical weapons. He clearly explained to Congress and the American people the basis for his decision to threaten the Assad regime. It was based on the documented proof of the Syrian government’s use of chemical weapons against its citizens. Without the President's efforts, this diplomatic option would not be available.” ###
09.05.2013	Houston – Congressman Gene Green applauded the Department of Transportation’s announcement today of a $10 million grant to the Port of Houston to improve the Bayport Terminal. “The Port of Houston is a port of national significance. It is the largest foreign tonnage port in the country and moves the second largest total amount of cargo in the country. This expansion is critical for the Port and our area to be prepared for the opportunities of the future.” The project will extend the Bayport Terminal’s wharf an additional 700 feet from 3300 feet to 4000. The project also adds necessary container handling capacity to a growing port in a fast growing region.
07.26.2013	Williamsport, PA – The bipartisan Congressional Natural Gas Caucus, which is chaired by U.S. Representatives Gene Green (D-TX), Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA), Tom Reed (R-NY) and Jim Costa (D-CA), convened a congressional field hearing today at the Pennsylvania College of Technology in Williamsport, PA. The Caucus received testimony from state and local leaders on the economic impacts of natural gas production and related development in the Marcellus Shale region. U.S. Representative Gene Green (D-TX), a senior Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, stated, “These issues are important, and I am glad the our Caucus takes its role seriously. I look forward to having more of these educational events in the future.” Testimony: Panel 1: Patrick Henderson, Pennsylvania Governor’s Office of Policy & Planning Erick Coolidge, Tioga County Commissioner Jeff Wheeland, Lycoming County Commissioner Pennsylvania State Representative Matt Baker Mike Flanagan, Clinton County Economic Partnership Panel 2: Vince Matteo, Lycoming County Chamber of Commerce John Augustine, Marcellus Shale Coalition Brent Fish, Fish Realty Seth Alberts, Alberts Spray Solutions Bobby Keen, Ultra Pipeline The Congressional Natural Gas Caucus is a bipartisan effort in the U.S. House made up of more than 80 Members of Congress. The primary mission of the group is to educate Members of Congress and the American people about the importance of natural gas as a domestic energy resource, its role in meeting the nation's energy demand and in attaining energy security. ###
07.24.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Gene Green (TX-29) and Mike Thompson (CA-05) today introduced H.R. 2791, the Responsible Electronics Recycling Act (RERA) of 2013. The legislation promotes the U.S. recycling industry by prohibiting the exportation of some electronics whose improper disposal may create environmental, health, or national security risks. According to a recent study by the Coalition for American Electronics Recycling, restrictions on e-waste exports could create up to 42,000 new direct and indirect jobs with a total payroll of more than $1 billion. While there are domestic recyclers that currently process e-waste, they have a hard time competing with overseas recycling facilities that have few, if any, labor and environmental standards and are able to offer cheaper services. A U.S. International Trade Committee (ITC) report also states the RERA will help increase U.S. exports and create jobs. Discarded computers, TVs, phones and other consumer electronics – commonly referred to as electronic waste or “e-waste” – now comprise the fastest growing waste stream in the U.S. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates that the U.S. generates more than 3.4 million tons of e-waste a year.Congressman Gene Green stated, “E-waste is the fastest growing waste stream in the United States and can pose serious environmental and health problems here and around the world when not handled properly,” said Green. “As a senior member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I look forward to working with the majority in the House to pass this important legislation which will create thousands of jobs at home while helping protect human health and the environment.” “Each year, millions of tons of e-waste are discarded in the U.S. and shipped to developing nations for unsafe salvage and recovery,” said Congressman Mike Thompson. “By carefully regulating the export of e-waste, this bipartisan legislation creates good-paying recycling jobs here in the U.S., while taking concrete steps to address a growing environmental and health crisis.” H.R. 2791 has garnered bipartisan support with original Republican cosponsors, Reps. Mike Coffman (CO-6), Steve Stivers (OH-15) and Mike McCaul (TX-10). Original Democratic cosponsors include Reps. Thompson, Green and Louis Slaughter (NY-25). The legislation is also broadly supported by the electronics industry, including official backing from Hewlett Packard, Dell, Apple, Samsung, and Best Buy. It is also widely supported by the recycling industry, including the Coalition For American Electronics Recyclers, which includes more than 100 companies operating more than 185 processing facilities in 34 states; and the environmental community, including the Electronic TakeBack Coalition (ETBC) and the National Resources Defense Council (NRDC). "Samsung Electronics America prioritizes responsible electronic recycling and is proud to again support the passage of RERA," said Joel Wiginton, Vice President of Government Relations of Samsung Electronics America.Steve Skurnac, President of Sims Recycling Solutions and CAER steering committee member, said, “By requiring responsible recycling of electronic scrap within our borders, RERA will create valuable recycling jobs that add significant economic value.”Neil Peters-Michaud, CEO of Cascade Asset Management and CAER steering committee member, noted, “RERA will promote investment in our domestic recycling industry that can boost trade in tested, working electronics as well as processed e-scrap commodities.” “This is the most important step our federal government can take to solve the e-waste problem – to close the door on e-waste dumping on developing countries,” said Barbara Kyle, National Coordinator of the Electronics TakeBack Coalition, a national environmental coalition which promotes responsible recycling of e-waste. “Consumers want to recycle their electronics, but they shouldn’t have to worry about whether their old products will really be recycled, or just exported to China.” In 2008, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) reported that many of the developing nations that receive e-waste from the United States do not have the capacity or facilities to safely recycle and dispose of these used electronics. H.R. 2791 creates a new section in the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) that prohibits the export of “restricted electronic waste” from the U.S. to countries that are not members of the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) or the European Union (EU). Restricted electronic equipment refers to any equipment that contains specific toxic materials at levels greater than those deemed non- hazardous by the EPA. Under the legislation, tested and working equipment can still be exported to promote reuse. Products could also still be exported for warranty repair or due to recall. This legislative approach is consistent with the e-waste policies adopted by most other developed nations via international treaties, such as the Basel Convention and Basel Ban Amendment. H.R. 2791 also creates a research program at the Department of Energy to help assess the recycling and recovery of Rare Earth Metals from electronics. This provision will help ensure the proper collection and recycling of precious and strategic metals. H.R. 2791 has been referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
07.17.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) and Rep. Tim Murphy (PA-18) today re-introduced the Family Health Care Accessibility Act of 2013, a measure to break down the barriers to doctor volunteerism at community health centers (CHC). Today, 1,100 federally funded community health centers serve 20 million people nationwide, but a workforce shortage is making it difficult for these clinics to care for everyone. Health care professionals want to volunteer, but federal law is making it difficult for them to do so. If a physician, psychologist, dentist or other healthcare professional volunteers at a free clinic, they receive federal liability protections covered under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA). But if a physician wants to volunteer at a CHC, they must provide their own medical malpractice insurance, which can cost more than $100,000. This is too costly for healthcare professionals, especially semi-retired ones, according to the Government Accountability Office. This barrier is turning away otherwise qualified volunteers and creating a preventable shortage at CHCs. For example, CHCs had only 126 full-time equivalent volunteers, according to a study in the Journal of the American Medical Association. Under the Murphy-Green bill, the federal government would extend to volunteer healthcare professionals at CHCs the same protection given to free clinic volunteers, who have been covered by the FTCA since passage of HIPAA in 1996. The Family Health Care Accessibility Act has received the endorsement of the National Association of Community Health Centers. Rep. Green stated, “I am proud to join Rep. Murphy in introducing this important legislation. Extending medical malpractice insurance to health care providers who volunteer at community health centers will increase the quality of care by removing a major burden on this volunteer workforce. This protection has existed for volunteers at free clinics for years. It’s time we harmonize this law for community health centers.” “Community health centers provide a high-quality neighborhood medical home for low-income families and children,” said Rep. Murphy. “Unfortunately, federal law is actively preventing doctors and other healthcare workers who want to help from volunteering their services at CHCs. This bill removes those barriers and helps to addresses a critical shortage of medical professionals so millions of Americans can get care at CHCs.” A companion measure, S. 955, has been introduced in the U.S. Senate. ###
07.11.2013	Washington, DC – The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has just announced that five Houston/Harris County organizations have been awarded over $6 million in FY13 grants under the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program to help 1,900 veteran households. Congressman Green stated, “Our veterans bravely and selflessly served our country and it is our duty to take care of them and make sure they receive the best treatment and service possible. Homelessness and mental health issues are very serious and I am glad we have such a strong support network in the Houston and Harris County area. The Supportive Services for Veteran Families program funds will help us reach out to even more of our veterans.” The SSVF Program supports the VA’s efforts to prevent at-risk veterans from becoming homeless and rapidly re-housing those who have recently fallen into homelessness by providing a range of services that promote housing stability and play a key role in connecting veterans and their family members to VA services such as mental health care and other benefits. The grants have been awarded to 319 community agencies across the United States and the nearly $300 million in grants will help approximately 120,000 homeless and at-risk veterans and their families. Nearly 90 percent of the veterans who completed the program in 2012 transitioned to permanent housing. Grantees serving Harris County included: Goodwill Industries of Houston, Salvation Army, United States Veterans Initiative, Neighborhood Centers, and Career and Recovery Resources Inc. More information can be found at https://www.va.gov/homeless/ssvf.asp. Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) FY2013 Grant Recipients Organization Grant Participants Served Goodwill Industries of Houston, Inc. $2,000,000 1,000 Neighborhood Centers Inc. $1,567,780 325 Salvation Army, a Georgia Corporation $1,044,581 250 Career and Recovery Resources, Inc. $885,998 170 United States Veterans Initiative $557,610 156 Total $6,055,969 1,901 ###
07.11.2013	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. Department of Commerce’s International Trade Administration (ITA) announced new data that show the Houston metropolitan area became the top metropolitan area for exports in 2012. Houston had been in second place for metropolitan area with the greatest exports since 2006, narrowly trailing behind the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island metropolitan area. Merchandise exports from the Houston-Sugar Land-Baytown metropolitan area totaled a record $110.3 billion, an increase of $5.8 billion from 2011 to 2012. Key merchandise export categories included petroleum and coal products, chemicals, machinery, computer and electronic products, and oil and gas. Mexico, Canada, Brazil, China, and the Netherlands were the leading destinations for Houston exports. “Exports from America’s metropolitan areas have increased for three consecutive years, and continue to set new records city by city,” said U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker. “We know that businesses that successfully sell their goods and services abroad help support local economies and increase our manufacturing base here at home. That is why the Department of Commerce is committed to working in communities around the country to help businesses increase their export potential and enter new markets. U.S. exports support nearly 10 million American jobs – and their contributions to local economies are being seen from Washington State to Washington, D.C.”Congressman Gene Green added, “I am glad to see that Houston has become the number one metropolitan area exporter in the United States. Houston is home to the largest petrochemical complex in the country, the Port of Houston, a strong oil and gas sector, and the Houston Medical Center. We have been the national leader in job and economic growth for the past decade and we take great pride in our cooperative ‘can-do’ attitude. I hope to see us continue to be America’s leading export region for years to come.” According to the international trade figures released today by ITA, Houston-Sugar Land-Baytown is one of 32 metropolitan areas with merchandise exports worth more than $10 billion. 153 U.S. metropolitan areas exported more than $1 billion in merchandise in 2012. Thirty-one of the top 50 metropolitan areas for exports registered positive growth between 2011 and 2012 – with 29 of them reaching record export levels. “The growth in metro exports shows that selling internationally has become a much more viable option for many of our state’s businesses,” said Steve Recobs, Director of the U.S. Commercial Service Export Assistance Center in Houston. “In many cases, the Internet, ease of transportation, and array of available export services has reduced the distance between exporter and importer to a click on a desktop. We’d like to help you realize that potential.” More information on the report can be found at https://www.trade.gov/mas/ian/metroreport/index.asp. A fact sheet on the Houston metropolitan area can be found at https://www.trade.gov/mas/ian/metroreports/Houston.pdf. For more information on Texas exporting, the U.S. Commercial Service Export Assistance Center in Houston can be reached at (713) 209-3105, or by visiting www.export.gov/Texas. ###
07.11.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Green proudly announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded $9.9 million in federal grant assistance to Texas health centers to aid in health insurance enrollment. Of the 66 awards in Texas, 11 were granted to Houston-area community health centers and totaled $1.4 million. Rep. Green said, “I’m glad to see momentum gaining in the implementation of the most important component of the Affordable Care Act, affordable and quality health insurance options. Our local health centers see thousands of patients every year and are huge resources for our community. With these federal funds, more Texans will get access to assistance with enrolling in the health insurance marketplace.” Congressman Green represents Texas’ 29th Congressional District, which has one of the highest uninsured populations in the nation. The U.S. Census Bureau reported that 36.3% of residents in the 29th District do not have insurance. Three of the community health center grants were awarded to community health centers in the district. Across Texas, 67 health centers operate 388 sites serving 1,085,199 patients last year, 51 percent of whom were uninsured. The following clinics serving the 29th District and Houston/Harris County received grants: Harris County Hospital District, Houston Area Community Services, Houston Community Health Centers, Asian American Health Coalition of the Greater Houston Area, El Centro Del Corazon, Fourth Ward Clinic, Health Care for the Homeless Houston, Legacy Community Health Services, Pasadena Health Center, South Central Houston Community Health Center, and Spring Branch Community Health Center. The awards, issued by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), complement other federal efforts, such as the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services-funded Navigator program. More information on HHS’ awards in Texas can be found at https://www.hrsa.gov/about/news/2013tables/outreachandenrollment/tx.html. ###
07.02.2013	Washington, DC – Today, the Department of Health and Human Services announced that Houston-based Gateway to Care has won a $998,784 grant under the Connecting Kids to Coverage Outreach and Enrollment Grant program to continue outreach and enrollment efforts for children eligible for Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Congressman Gene Green was proud to submit a letter of support for Gateway to Care’s application. Rep. Green stated, “There are so many children in our community that are in need of medical care and Medicaid and CHIP are great programs. I’m glad to see that this local non-profit has received a grant to support the mission of affordable and accessible health care for our nation’s most vulnerable population. It’s our duty to take care of our children and make sure their health needs are met.” As one of the states with the largest number of eligible but non-enrolled children, Texas received 3 of the 41 grants. Funding for the grants was made possible though the Affordable Care Act. A full copy of Congressman Green’s letter can be found here. ###
06.28.2013	Washington, DC – With only three days left until student loan interest rates double from 3.4% to 6.8% on July 1st, Congressman Gene Green was proud to support H.R. 1595, the Student Loan Relief Act of 2013, by signing Rep. Joe Courtney’s discharge petition to bring the bill before the full House for consideration. As of Thursday, June 27, 196 Members had signed on to the discharge petition for Rep. Courtney’s bill, still 22 shy of the 218 needed to bring the bill to the floor. The Joint Economic Committee’s June 2013 report, “Causes and Consequences of Increasing Student Debt,” found the following data for the state of Texas: • Average Debt: $22,600 • Percent with Debt: 56% • Annualized Average Weekly Earnings (graduates under age 30): $49,112 • Ratio of Debt to Annualized Earnings: 46% • Percent of Student Loan Borrowers with Accounts 90+ Days Delinquent (borrowers under age 30): 19.7% The report also found that as of the first quarter of 2013, workers with a bachelor’s degree earned 68% more than workers with only a high school diploma. Rep. Green submitted a statement for the record, asserting: I rise today in support of extending the 3.4 interest rate on Stafford Student loans to protect students from seeing their interest rates double on July 1, 2013. As the cost of higher education continues to climb and total student loan debt eclipsed credit card debt for the first time, the consequences of inaction are unacceptable. We need to be making college more affordable for all students, not putting it further out of reach. As an advanced degree becomes more and more of a requirement for well paying jobs, it is vital that low interest loans be available so that students can access an affordable college education. Approximately 60 percent of students take out loans to attend college and increasing the cost of borrowing will prevent millions from being able to obtain a degree. H.R. 1595, the Student Loan Relief Act of 2013, is a clean extension that would freeze the 3.4 interest rate on Stafford loans for two years. I urge my colleagues to pass this legislation to prevent a crippling hike in rates and give Congress time to find a true long-term solution to student loans and college affordability that is worthy of our nation’s young people. A strong middle-class, well educated workforce and the opportunity for upward mobility are the building blocks of a thriving economy. To maintain and strengthen each, every student must have the opportunity to pursue higher education, not just the privileged few. College educated students are the future engine of our country, and anyone who wants to pursue a post-secondary education should have the opportunity to do so without going into crushing debt. I urge my colleagues to stop rates from doubling and extend the current interest rate of 3.4 percent. A full copy of the JEC report can be found here. ###
06.27.2013	Washington, DC – Moments ago, the U.S. Senate passed the greatest immigration reform bill in decades, the “Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act,” by a vote of 68-32. Congressman Gene Green, a long-time supporter of immigration reform, released the following statement: “I’m glad the Senate passed this legislation. It’s not a perfect bill but it is a bipartisan compromise that would strengthen our nation’s borders, expand our economy, decrease the deficit, and provide a pathway to earned citizenship for our nation’s undocumented population. I hope it’s brought to the House floor soon with further bipartisan support.” ###
06.19.2013	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its findings on the financial impact of the Senate’s Gang of Eight immigration reform bill. The CBO reported that S. 744, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act, would reduce the federal deficit by a net of $197 billion over the first ten years of implementation. In the second decade, it projects an additional $690 billion in deficit reduction. Congressman Green stated, “The benefits of this bill are obvious. You’re bringing 10.4 million U.S. residents into the system that previously weren’t paying income tax or Social Security and Medicare taxes. Our nation was founded by immigrants and hardworking, law-abiding residents should have the opportunity to contribute to our country openly and proudly.” Approximately 11.5 million unauthorized adults and children resided in the United States in 2011. The bill provides pathways to provisional legalization for unauthorized residents that meet necessary qualifications and pay associated fines and processing fees. A copy of the report can be found at www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/attachments/s744.pdf. ###
06.14.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for FY2014 to provide free Internet access for service members serving in a combat zone. In his statement submitted for the record on the amendment, Rep. Green explained: Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my amendment (#63), to the National Defense Authorization Act, which would require the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps to provide free Internet access for service members serving in a combat zone. This amendment comes as a response to several service members from my district who, while serving in Afghanistan and Iraq, found the distribution and pricing of recreational Internet usage for service members to be unequal and exorbitant. For the vast majority of our nation’s service members serving overseas, the Internet has become the best means to communicate with spouses, children, parents, and other loved ones. It is the key link to staying connected with home and provides a much needed boost in morale for our nation’s warriors who have had to endure multiple tours of duty in some of the most difficult terrain in the world. It is imperative that as the people’s elected representatives, we make sure that this important service is provided to those who have answered the call of duty and are putting their lives in harm’s way at the lowest cost for our service members. For situations in which the local security environment does not allow for recreational Internet usage, this amendment provides for a temporary waiver. I ask for my colleagues for stand with our service members and their families and vote in support of my amendment. The NDAA bill was voted on today and passed with a strong vote of 315 to 108. ###
06.14.2013	Houston, TX – Representative Gene Green congratulated the Greater East End Management District (GEEMD) on the $5.255 million grant awarded by the Houston Galveston Area Council (H-GAC) for the expansion of transit projects. In March 2013, Congressman Green wrote a letter of support for the GEEMD. The funding will benefit the GEEMD’s Pedestrian Bicycle Projects and Livable Centers Projects, which are part of a larger plan focused on improving transit connectivity and transit access for pedestrians and cyclists. Rep. Gene Green commented, “It’s great to see how much the East End community and businesses have developed over the years. These projects will be great improvements to our city’s transportation system to continue that growth.” Diane Schenke, President of Greater East End District, added, “The Greater East End Management District will be receiving an additional $5.2M in grants over the next 3 years. The projects include sidewalks, bike crossings at railroads, and intersections to connect the East End to other nearby neighborhoods. The projects made possible by these grants supplement METRO’s investment of $5.25M in the East End Light Rail, making it easier for people to get to the rail line. These projects build onto others that have already been constructed, and will help all travelers move around, including those in cars and buses. As usual, none of these projects would be possible without the strong support of the community and our elected officials.” The Pedestrian Bicycle Project will improve pedestrian and bicycle facilities across rail line and increase safety at rail crossings. The Livable Centers Projects will increase the safety of intersections, improve the capacity for multi-modal travel, and enhance connectivity. Sidewalks and bike trails are necessary for passengers to access METRO’s East End Light Rail since there are no major parking lots along the line. These projects will improve accessibility to travelers. A copy of Congressman Green’s support letter can be found here.
06.12.2013	Houston, TX – Thanks to the help of community and corporate volunteers, more than 190 legal residents began the process of becoming an American citizen at Congressman Gene Green’s 19th Annual Citizenship Day on Saturday, June 8th at Houston Community College Northeast. Rep. Green stated, “Our Citizenship Day event is one of the most rewarding things I have ever done as a public servant. Men and women who have lived in the U.S. for decades but have been intimidated by beginning the process have the opportunity to take that first step. I have been to several naturalization ceremonies and the patriotism and pride just take your breath away, and it is an honor to be a part of that.” Houston Community College Northeast President, Dr. Margaret Ford Fisher, also came to the event to show her support. Local volunteers from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), NALEO, LULAC, Hispanic Organization for Postal Employees (HOPE), and local immigration attorneys were also essential to the success of Congressman Green’s 19th Annual Citizenship Day.
06.05.2013	An oft-repeated maxim coined by Benjamin Franklin, “an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure,” is popular because it is true. For 16 years, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) has helped us follow Benjamin Franklin’s guidance by helping millions of low-income working families afford health insurance for their children. Ignoring children’s healthcare needs comes at a significant cost to their families, the healthcare system and society. This cost far exceeds the expenses of administering CHIP. CHIP was a bipartisan proposal, first passed into law in 1997 under the leadership of Republican Orrin Hatch (Utah) and Democrat Ted Kennedy (Mass.), and reauthorized with bipartisan support since then in 2009 and again in the Affordable Care Act through Oct. 1, 2015. This important program provides health insurance coverage to low-income families who have children and earn too little to afford private insurance but too much to qualify for Medicaid. CHIP, like Medicaid, also uses private insurance plans to deliver care. CHIP is absolutely critical to meeting the health needs of millions of our nation’s children. Currently, almost 8 million children nationally are covered through this program, and nearly 600,000 in Texas. It keeps our country’s next generation healthy, giving them the ability to attend school and become productive adults. No child should be sentenced to pain, misery and illness simply because their parents cannot afford needed care. CHIP coverage is especially important to my district in Texas. The portions of Houston and North and East Harris County that I represent have some of the highest uninsured rates in the country. That is why I support CHIP, Medicaid, Medicare, and most recently, the Affordable Care Act. These laws are indispensable to our health and incremental toward ensuring universal access to healthcare for all Americans — and CHIP is a key part of that. As a parent and grandparent, I can only imagine how heart wrenching it must be for a parent worrying that Washington gridlock might keep their child from healthcare. Children can least afford the impact of deferred medical treatment. Diseases, if left undiagnosed or untreated, can have permanent, and sometimes, lifelong, life-altering effects. But, it is not without its weaknesses. In the private market, if a child is insured, that insurance is almost always good for a full year. However, often CHIP administrative red tape and archaic practices lead to children being dropped from coverage for part of the year, requiring they re-enroll in order to receive the care they need. This phenomenon, known as “churn,” leads to unnecessary expenses by the state, providers and hospitals — and red tape and headaches for families. It is also a significant barrier to care, resulting in deferred medical treatment. To address this bureaucratic barrier to care, I introduced the Ensuring Continuous Coverage under CHIP Act, and with my good friend Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas), also introduced the Stabilize Medicaid and CHIP Coverage Act. These bills would ensure that a child enrolled in CHIP remains enrolled for a full 12 months. This is a common practice among private insurers, and it is just common sense that our children receive the same benefit — and do not have bureaucracy interrupt needed healthcare. Since day one, CHIP has been a godsend for families whose children would otherwise have no health coverage — and would face crushing medical bills or be denied care without it. CHIP covers essential services that no child should go without, like access to physicians and mental healthcare, prescription drugs and vaccines, dentist visits, eye exams, and other basic care. It is our responsibility to take care of future generations. A child who is too sick to go to school or is unable to read the chalkboard because they need glasses is unjustly put at a disadvantage through no fault of their own. Within the next two years, we will undoubtedly face another funding battle for CHIP, similar to the one we faced — and overcame — in 2009 to extend the program and increase funding. I hope my colleagues and I can come to agreement on CHIP support so we do not allow millions of working parents and their children to fall between the cracks. In the meantime, I hope we can ensure that every child is able to access quality medical care — and the two bills I introduced will help make that a reality. The services that CHIP provides are the social and financial “ounce of prevention” that contribute to the health and success of our nation’s children and generations to come.Green represents Texas’s 29th congressional district, which includes portions of north and east Houston and Harris County. Green has served on the House Energy and Commerce Committee since 1997 and currently serves on its subcommittee on health. Link: https://thehill.com/special-reports/childrens-initiatives-june-2013-/303477-chip-ensures-all-children-have-access-to-healthcare#ixzz2VN0hLgPA
05.31.2013	Houston, TX – Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) reacted positively to an array of good news this week as a result of the continued implementation of the Affordable Care Act. The Obama Administration announced that the Medicare Trustees reported two additional years of solvency for Medicare, now until 2026, thanks to the enactment of the Affordable Care Act. Additionally, it was announced that 90% of Americans participating in the Health Insurance Exchanges created by the Affordable Care Act will have at least five different health insurance options. “Recently, Medicare has been under assault. Some have engaged in scare tactics to convince seniors that the care they have been investing in their entire lives will not be there when they need it. The news that Medicare will remain solvent until 2026 is great and it justifies a balanced and measured approach toward reform proposals. Without a doubt, we must repeal the Sustainable Growth Rate formula and we should do more to ensure the Medicare program is solvent for years more, but this news is welcome.” Rep. Green also lauded the news on the health insurance exchanges, saying, “Like all legislation, the Affordable Care Act was not perfect. But, it is good news that the health insurance exchanges are operating as planned. It is my goal to work with the State of Texas and the federal government to make sure the federally run Texas exchange is robust, but the news that 90% of Americans will have at least 5 choices supports the tough decisions we had to make to enact the Affordable Care Act. As full implementation of the exchanges approaches, I am hopeful that more good news will follow.” A copy of the report can be found at www.ssa.gov/oact/trsum/. ###
05.15.2013	Houston, TX – On Monday, May 13, Congressman Gene Green hosted his 11th Annual Eastside Job Fair with over 50 employers and a turnout of over 300 job seekers. Partners included Workforce Solutions, Houston Community College - Southeast Campus, and the Houston East End Chamber of Commerce. Rep. Green stated, “It’s encouraging to see national job reports showing that our economy is improving but it’s critical that we remain committed to creating opportunities for jobs here locally. For the last eleven years, our office has held a job fair every year because supporting our community and local businesses is so important.” Congressman Green’s next job fair will be held in September 2013. ###
05.07.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green announced news that the Department of Transportation has awarded Southwest Airlines two slot exemptions at Reagan National Airport in Washington, DC to Southwest Airlines for one daily nonstop round-trip to Hobby Airport in Houston, Texas. Congressman Green represents the Houston Hobby airport in the 29th Congressional District and was instrumental in working with Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood to secure the slots. Rep. Green stated, “This will be great for Houston and is a sign of the amount of economic growth that is occurring in Houston. Hobby Airport is a tremendous asset in the Greater Houston area and I’m thrilled to see it receive more business. Adding more flights will only increase the possibilities for further progress.” Southwest will be required to inaugurate full service no later than August 5, 2013. The Department of Transportation also received applications from JetBlue and US Airways. More information on the Department’s decision can be found at www.regulations.gov, docket DOT-OST-2000-7182. ###
05.07.2013	Houston, TX – This Friday, May 10, Representative Gene Green and NASA astronaut Dr. Stanley Love will tour several Houston-area schools to speak with students about the importance of math, science and graduating from high school. Rep. Green said, “Sometimes the road to careers like being an astronaut can seem out of reach when a student is young. For over ten years, I have been bringing NASA astronauts to local middle schools every year to show students that they can achieve anything if they work at it.” Selected by NASA in June 1998, Dr. Love continues his work at the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center, having earned Individual Performance Awards in 2003, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. Originally from Eugene, Oregon, Dr. Love completed his first spaceflight in 2008 on the crew of STS-122, logging more than 306 hours in space including more than 15 hours in two spacewalks. Congressman Green and Dr. Love will visit Hambrick Middle School, Grantham Academy, and McReynolds Middle School. ###
04.24.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Gene Green (D-TX) and Joe Barton (R-TX) introduced the “Stabilize Medicaid and CHIP Coverage Act of 2013” to reduce patient churn in the Medicaid and CHIP programs. Under current law, Medicaid and CHIP beneficiaries face uncertain coverage. Currently, only 23 states have implemented continuous enrollment for Medicaid and 28 states for CHIP programs. This leaves an estimated 30 million adults on Medicaid and 19 million children unprotected by current law. The results of uncertain coverage are deferred healthcare consumption, which costs more in the long-run and worsens patient outcomes. Rep. Green stated, “Enacting 12-month continuous enrollment nationwide has long been a high priority for me. In our district, we know all too well the high costs associated with limiting access to care. I am pleased to be joined by my good friend Rep. Barton in introducing this important bill that will stabilize coverage for beneficiaries and bring certainty and predictability to the system for states, insurers, and providers.” Patient “churn” results in high administrative costs for hospitals and health providers, interrupted care, and worse outcomes for patients. It is caused by the removal of individuals from the Medicaid and CHIP rolls for minor, and often temporary, changes in income or administrative reasons unrelated to their eligibility. Reducing churn will improve patient outcomes, treat conditions before they become more costly, and reduce administrative costs associated with the programs. A copy of the bill can be found at https://green.house.gov/sites/green.house.gov/files/documents/Stabilize_Medicaid_and_CHIP_Coverage_Act.pdf
04.10.2013	Washington, DC – In response to the FY 2014 budget introduced by President Obama today, Congressman Gene Green released the following statement: “The President’s budget has great ideas to create jobs by investing in education, manufacturing, infrastructure, and small business success. I also agree with simplifying our tax code and asking that wealthier Americans pay a fair share in taxes. I can’t stress enough though, that singling out the oil and gas industry for tax hikes would only stifle job creation and drive up imports of crude oil from foreign nations that are hostile to us. It’s not fair to penalize one specific industry unjustly, much less one that's so critical to our nation's economy. I also do not support the negative impact that seniors would feel if the Social Security system were changed to use a chained Consumer Price Index to calculate cost-of-living-adjustments to the benefits that seniors have duly earned.” A copy of President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2014 budget can be found at www.whitehouse.gov/omb/budget/Overview. ###
03.26.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressmen Gene Green (TX-29) and Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) have introduced H.R. 1326, the Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act of 2013. This bipartisan legislation aims to make health care more affordable by promoting greater transparency about the costs of health care services for patients. The Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act directs the states to establish and maintain laws requiring disclosure of information on hospital charges. Additionally, the bill requires hospitals and health plans to make such information available to the public, and to provide individuals with information about estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services. “Our current health care system needs to be reformed. Unfortunately, with all of the bureaucracy and paperwork, few people including patients and physicians know where money is going. This makes it hard to identify the base problem and begin to help curb increasing health care costs,” said Rep. Green. “This legislation will be a first step in a long-term solution to clear up the confusion, and will let us move towards affordable, quality health care for all Americans.” Representatives Burgess and Green requested a General Accountability Office report, which found that cost information is helpful to patients, who often have difficulty accessing reliable and consistent price information. Health care costs are increasing at an alarming rate. In 2011, total national health expenditures rose over 3.9 percent – just over double the rate of inflation. Total spending was $2.7 trillion in 2011, or $8,680 per person. Total health care spending represented 17.9 percent of the Gross Domestic Product. U.S. health care spending is expected to increase at similar levels for the next decade reaching $4.5 trillion in 2020, or close to 20 percent of GDP. “Patients could review their options with up-front information about the costs of a medical procedure and other expenses in health care services,” said Dr. Burgess who is the Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health and Co-Chair of the Congressional Health Caucus. “A patient should be able to know what they are buying and how much they will pay out-of-pocket. Arming patients with cost information is an important step in improving our country’s health care system with the focus on the patient.” The American Hospital Association endorses the Burgess-Green legislation, noting evidence of the ongoing success of states and state hospital associations to collect and disseminate hospital pricing information. ###
03.22.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Gene Green, who helped draft the Affordable Care Act while serving on the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health, acknowledged the success of the law since being signed in 2010. Rep. Green stated, “I have always been a big supporter of increased access to affordable and quality healthcare, and am proud that the Affordable Care Act is now in its third year of saving lives and money for taxpayers. Although Houston has some of the best hospitals in the world, the area where I grew up and now represent has one of the lowest rates of adequate health insurance for adults in the entire nation. This law has helped remedy this for communities like ours across the entire U.S. and that’s a great accomplishment.” Health reform continues to make a difference for Texans. This week, the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services released updated statistics on the benefits already gained from the law’s implementation: • As of December 2011, 357,000 young adults in Texas gained insurance coverage as a result of the health care law. • In 2011 and 2012, 5,198,000 Texans with private health insurance gained preventive service coverage with no cost-sharing. For policies renewing on or after August 1, 2012, women can now get coverage without cost-sharing of even more preventive services they need, which will benefit approximately 3,412,175 women in Texas. • In 2012 alone, an estimated 34.1 million people with Medicare benefited from Medicare’s coverage of preventive services with no cost-sharing. In Texas, 1,795,711 individuals with traditional Medicare used one or more free preventive service in 2012. • Under the new health care law, insurance companies must provide consumers greater value by spending generally at least 80 percent of premium dollars on health care and quality improvements instead of overhead, executive salaries or marketing. If they do not adhere to this 80/20 rule, they must provide consumers a rebate or reduce premiums. This means that 1,516,721 Texas residents with private insurance coverage will benefit from $166,975,840 in rebates from insurance companies this year. • In every State and for the first time under Federal law, insurance companies are required to publicly justify their actions if they want to raise rates by 10 percent or more. Texas has received $1,000,000 under the new law to help fight unreasonable premium increases. • The law bans insurance companies from imposing lifetime dollar limits on health benefits – freeing cancer patients and individuals suffering from other chronic diseases from having to worry about going without treatment because of their lifetime limits. Already, 7,536,000 people in Texas, including 2,771,000 women and 2,094,000 children, are free from worrying about lifetime limits on coverage. • As of August 2012, 9,592 previously uninsured residents of Texas who were locked out of the coverage system because of a pre-existing condition are now insured through a new Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan that was created under the new health reform law. • The Affordable Care Act increases the funding available to community health centers nationwide. In Texas, 69 health centers operate 396 sites, providing preventive and primary health care services to 975,509 people. Health Center grantees in Texas have received $224,639,256 under the Affordable Care Act to support ongoing health center operations and to establish new health center sites, expand services, and/or support major capital improvement projects. More information on these and other provisions can be found at www.healthcare.gov/law/information-for-you/tx.html. ### Congressman Green has served on the House Energy & Commerce Committee since 1996 and has represented the 29th District of Texas, which covers parts of North and East Houston and Harris County since 1993.
03.18.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Gene Green has sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry urging his approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline. The letter was submitted as part of the comment period for the most recent Department of State Draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Keystone XL Pipeline. Congressman Green stated, “This pipeline is an important piece of our quest for energy security and after the latest environmental impact study showing there is still not a significant environmental impact, there is no reason to delay this decision once the final EIS is ready. I hope Secretary Kerry will recognize the importance of the pipeline and do what is right for our economy and energy security.” Congressman Green’s letter also included a copy of a bipartisan letter supporting the project that was sent to President Obama on January 23, 2013. This letter was signed by the Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, the Subcommittee Chairman of Energy and Power, the Chairman of Transportation and Infrastructure, and over 145 Members from districts all over the country, including Texas, Illinois, California, New York, Arkansas and Utah. A copy of Congressman Green’s letter to Secretary Kerry along with a copy of the original bipartisan letter can be found here.Congressman Green has served on the House Energy & Commerce Committee since 1996 and has represented the 29th District of Texas, which covers parts of North and East Houston and Harris County since 1993. ###
03.13.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Gene Green spoke out on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in opposition of the United States Postal Service’s decision to close the Irvington Post Office at 7825 Fulton Street in Houston, on April 30, 2013: “I rise to voice my frustration and disappointment with the Postal Service’s decision to close the Irvington Station Post Office that serves zip code 77022 in Houston, Texas. This post office is highly valued in our district and has served residents of the Northside area for 50 years. The Postal Service announced that the Irvington office will be demolished, despite the fact that the agency has failed to ensure that local residents will still have access to essential mail services. The Irvington office’s lease is expiring, and instead of finding a new location nearby or moving retail operations into the Northline Commons area as a compromise, the Postal Service has chosen to close the office. I contacted and met with postal officials without success. Moving forward with the closure is irresponsible and undermines the integrity of the agency. The people living in and around the 77022 zip code will not have the same access to postal services as everyone else. I understand the Postal Service’s budget constraints and support reforming the agency. However, maintaining a presence in the area makes smart business sense for the Postal Service and fulfills a need in this re-vitalized community. The Postal Service is losing customers and friends who have supported it.” ###
03.13.2013	Washington, DC – In response to the budget introduced by House Republicans, which cuts funding to vital domestic programs, jeopardizes Medicare, and eliminates the most beneficial elements of the Affordable Care Act, Congressman Green released the following statement: “The Republican budget is not only bad for our nation but it also does not make sense mathematically. The Ryan budget seeks to repeal the most beneficial and cost-saving elements of the Affordable Care Act but continues to count those savings in balancing the budget. We cannot continue to save the millions of dollars we have seen so far if the law is repealed. The budget also turns Medicare into a voucher program but does nothing to ensure that the private market will not raise prices to a level that seniors can no longer afford. The budget also adds other cuts to Medicare that would not go into effect until 2024. How can you count those savings if they haven’t happened yet? It’s just a bad, illogical budget all around. We had a balanced budget under the Clinton administration, and I believe we can do it again, but we cannot ask that seniors, low- and middle-income families, and veterans take hits because we don’t want to inconvenience the people who are the most well-off already.” A copy of the Republican budget can be found at https://budget.house.gov/uploadedfiles/2014_budget_resolution.pdf. ###
02.22.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Gene Green (D-TX), Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA), Tom Reed (R-NY) and Jim Costa (D-CA) today announced an expanded, four-member leadership team for the Congressional Natural Gas Caucus, a bipartisan effort to educate Members of Congress and the American people about the importance of natural gas as a domestic energy resource, its role in meeting the nation's energy demand and in attaining energy security. U.S. Representative Gene Green (D-TX): “I look forward to working with my fellow co-chairs on expanding the Caucus’ membership and using it as a forum to educate, discuss and unite around policies that we can agree on.” U.S. Representative Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA): “The United States is witnessing an energy revolution through which natural gas development and production is offering economic growth, lower energy costs, and a vastly expanded energy resource base. The Congressional Natural Gas Caucus will serve as a forum to educate Members of Congress and the public on the growing importance of natural gas in meeting the nation’s energy needs and explore the policy challenges that must be leveraged for American consumers and domestic industries to continue benefiting from this abundant, low-cost energy source.” U.S. Representative Tom Reed (R-NY): “Our country has been blessed with plentiful reserves of natural gas – reserves that will supply America with long-term, low-cost energy. The opportunities are endless for economic growth through the direct and indirect jobs created by natural gas development and its importance in New York’s 23rd District, and across the country, cannot be overstated. Along with my co-chairmanship of the House Manufacturing Caucus, I expect to be able to highlight the importance of development through the Congressional Natural Gas Caucus and the way it intertwines on both fronts. The development of domestic natural gas has already proven to be a game-changer for U.S. manufacturing and the Natural Gas Caucus will highlight ways to generate quality, good-paying American jobs.” U.S. Representative Jim Costa (D-CA): “Natural gas is American-made and critical to winning our energy future. Voters want to see Congress lead and build bipartisan agreement to deal with the problems of our day. Over 70 members from both sides of the aisle have come together to say that we must keep pushing forward to meet our energy challenges. This is about smart policies, not partisan politics.” ###
02.15.2013	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Gene Green (D-Texas) and K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) reintroduced the bipartisan Local Radio Freedom Act (H. Con. Res. 16), which would oppose any new fees, taxes or royalties for music played on local radio stations. The resolution has 71 additional original cosponsors. The recording industry has lobbied for a new “performance tax,” which would require local radio stations to pay a fee for each song they play on air. Local radio already provides free advertising and promotion for the recording industry, and these fees could put the future of these stations in jeopardy. Rep. Green stated, “I’m glad to join Mr. Conaway and many of our colleagues again in introducing this important resolution to preserve free over-the-air broadcast. Radio provides a great service to people, no matter their income, age, or education, and it’s an important part of maintaining an informed and engaged society. We can’t introduce a new system of fees that will cut people’s access to public safety information, news, weather, or entertainment.” “Communities rely on their local radio stations for news, weather alerts and other emergency broadcasts, and the suggested performance tax could jeopardize the future of many of these struggling stations. I’m pleased so many of my House colleagues have joined with me in supporting local radio stations and listeners while pushing back against punitive fees,” Rep. Conaway said. This resolution is identical to H. Con. Res. 21, which Reps. Conaway and Green introduced in the 112th Congress. The original cosponsors are: Reps. Rodney Alexander (R-La.), Jo Bonner (R-Ala), Charles Boustany (R-La.), G.K. Butterfield (D-N.C.), Ken Calvert (R-Calif.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Michael Capuano (D-Ma.), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Mike Coffman (R-Colo.), Tom Cole (R-Okla.), Joe Courtney (D-Conn.), Ander Crenshaw (R-Fla.), Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.), John Dingell (D-Mich.), Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.), Mike Fitzpatrick (R-Pa.), John Fleming (R-La.), Bill Flores (R-Texas), Phil Gingrey (R-Ga.), Kay Granger (R-Texas), Gregg Harper (R-Miss.), Alcee Hastings (D-Fla.), Doc Hastings (R-Wash.), Ruben Hinojosa (D-Texas), Tim Huelskamp (R-Kan.), Randy Hultgren (R-Ill.), David Joyce (R-Ohio), Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.), John Kline (R-Minn.), Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.), Leonard Lance (R-N.J.), Dave Loebsack (D-Iowa), Billy Long (R-Mo.), Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-Mo.), Carolyn McCarthy (D-N.Y.), Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), Gregory Meeks (D-N.Y.), Mike Michaud (D-Maine), Jeff Miller (R-Fla.), Randy Neugebauer (R-Texas), Alan Nunnelee (R-Miss.), Pete Olson (R-Texas), Steve Pearce (R-N.M.), Tom Petri (R-Wisc.), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.), Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.), Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), Mike Rogers (R-Ala.), Mike Rogers (R-Mich.), Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Jon Runyan (R-N.J.), Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), John Sarbanes (D-Md.), David Schweikert (R-Ariz.), Pete Sessions (R-Texas), John Shimkus (R-Ill.), Mike Simpson (R-Idaho), Steve Stivers (R-Ohio), Lee Terry (R-Neb.), Glenn Thompson (R-Pa.), Patrick Tiberi (R-Ohio), Michael Turner (R-Ohio), Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.), Tim Walberg (R-Mich.), Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Lynn Westmoreland (R-Ga.), Rob Wittman (R-Va.), Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) and Steve Womack (R-Ark.). ###
02.13.2013	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Tom Petri (R-WI), a senior member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, and Gene Green (D-TX) introduced bipartisan legislation to make permanent a key voluntary workplace safety program. The bill would codify the Voluntary Protection Program (VPP), a successful partnership between private industry and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) that was created in 1982 but never authorized in law. Once approved for VPP status, employers must commit to continuously improving the safety and health of their worksites while being reevaluated and monitored by OSHA to ensure continued compliance with program requirements. Rep. Green stated, “The Voluntary Protection Program is one of the few programs that has achieved unified support from both union and non-unionized labor, small and large businesses, and government. I am proud to work with my friend to codify this important safety program that saves money while protecting workers. In Texas alone, 342 worksites that employ over 50,000 workers, participate in this program.” "VPP is a great example of successful cooperation between private businesses and a government regulator," said Rep. Petri, one of the bill's sponsors. "Interactions between OSHA and businesses can often be adversarial—this program takes a different approach. I understand there are times when a heavy hand is needed, but most employers want a safe work environment. VPP represents a balanced and sensible approach to achieving this goal with reasonable oversight." VPP currently includes more than 2,500 worksites and roughly one million employees nationwide. A 2007 report noted that federal VPP worksites saved the government more than $59 million by avoiding injuries, and that private sector VPP participants saved more than $300 million. ###
02.12.2013	Washington – Following President Obama’s State of the Union address on the evening of February 12, 2013, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) issued the following statement in response: “I could not agree more with the President on focusing on creating jobs and growing the middle class, especially through investing in our domestic manufacturing and national infrastructure. We need to improve the education and skills of our students and workers to keep jobs in the US. I was also glad to hear him speak on strengthening our energy sector and speeding up oil and gas permits since so much of our nation’s economy depends on reliable and affordable energy. I hope the President’s speech serves as a springboard for Congress to address these issues through bipartisan cooperation.” ###
01.29.2013	Houston – A bipartisan letter to President Obama on the progress and requested approval of the Keystone Pipeline was lead, on the Democratic side, by Congressman Gene Green. The letter was lead by Republican Lee Terry of Nebraska and signed by over 145 other House Members. Congressman Green stated, “I am proud to have worked on this letter with my colleagues. With the completion of the Nebraska route, it is time that the President make a decision on this. I hope he will agree that this pipeline is critical for our nation’s energy security.” The letter was signed by the Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, the Subcommittee Chairman of Energy and Power, the Chairman of Transportation and Infrastructure, and Members from regions all over the country, including Texas, Illinois, California, New York, Arkansas and Utah, A copy of the letter and its full list of signers can be found here. ###
01.28.2013	Washington, DC – In response to the bipartisan immigration reform proposal released today, Congressman Gene Green issued the following statement in support of their efforts: “I am glad to see a bipartisan effort on creating fair-minded immigration policies that protect our country and strengthen our economy. I strongly support comprehensive immigration reform. The economic benefits provided by allowing our undocumented American students to contribute to our workforce, allowing a path to documentation for hard-working immigrants who will pay taxes, and making our borders more secure is not just good immigration policy, but good policy for the nation.” ###
01.28.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Gene Green demonstrated his strong support of the “Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013” (VAWA) by cosponsoring the legislation, H.R. 11. Passed 19 years ago, this landmark legislation focused the resources, time, and energy of federal, state, and local law enforcement on preventing and stopping domestic abuse, while providing victims of violence with critical services and assistance. In the 112th Congress, the U.S. Senate passed a bipartisan reauthorization of VAWA, with key provisions strengthening the law, by a vote of 68 to 31. However, the Republican leadership in the House refused to bring this bipartisan bill to the floor, and VAWA failed to secure reauthorization Representative Green stated, “The Violence Against Women Act is a critical piece of legislation for those affected by domestic violence. Too often, their voice is not heard and they suffer in silence. In strengthening VAWA, we are upholding our responsibility to our constituents to create and improve laws that promote the inalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness for all Americans. This bipartisan bill is a perfect example of legislation that Democrats and Republicans can work on together and agree on for the good of our nation.” VAWA has improved the criminal justice system’s ability to keep victims safe and hold perpetrators accountable. Based on this legislation, every state has enacted laws to make stalking a crime and strengthened criminal rape statutes. Since VAWA became law, the annual incidence of domestic violence has dropped more than 50 percent – and reporting of domestic violence has increased as much as 51 percent. VAWA has successfully encouraged communities and law enforcement agencies to coordinate their responses to violence against women and provide effective, long-term support for victims. Failure to enact this bill again would deprive women, children, and families of vital protection against abuse and deny law enforcement of essential tools to combat violence. ###
01.02.2013	Washington, DC – Congressman Gene Green offered the following statement on Tuesday evening’s vote on H.R. 8, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which addressed the fiscal cliff. “The American people have been asking for compromise for the last two years and last night Congress finally did just that. The fiscal cliff deal wasn’t perfect but I voted in favor of it to help our nation move forward. We’ve seen the market respond positively today which is a good sign. I hope that both parties will continue to collaborate for the 113th Congress for the progress and prosperity of our nation.” The legislation's text can be found on the Library of Congress' website at www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/BILLS-112hr8eas/pdf/BILLS-112hr8eas.pdf
10.05.2012	Houston – On October 2, 2012, the Galveston Bay Foundation recognized Congressman Gene Green with their annual “Guardian of the Bay” award at the Guardian of the Bay Award Luncheon at the River Oaks Country Club in Houston. The annual award honors three individuals or companies who have shown leadership in their efforts and commitment to preserving and enhancing the Galveston Bay. Congressman Green was recognized for his leadership in progressing the cleanup of the San Jacinto Waste Pits. “It’s a great honor to receive the 2012 ‘Guardian of the Bay’ award,” said Rep. Green. “Having grown up in Houston, I want to make sure that our great city and resources can be enjoyed by generations to come. Part of that effort is cleaning up the San Jacinto Waste Pits.” The 2012 award recipients were Kirby Corporation for Industry efforts, Cynthia and Don Stevenson for Community efforts, and Congressman Gene Green for Government efforts. The Honorable James A. Baker, III, who served as Secretary of the Treasury under President Reagan’s administration and Secretary of State under President George H. W. Bush’s administration, was the luncheon’s keynote speaker. ###
10.03.2012	Houston – On Wednesday, October 3, the Texas Workforce Commission (TWC) announced that Tier III benefits under the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act will be extended to unemployed Texans beginning October 7, 2012. This nine-week extension brings the total number of weeks that an eligible claimant can receive benefits to a maximum of 63 weeks. The nine-week extension was reinstated because Texas’ average unemployment rate was greater than 7% over the previous three months. “It’s disappointing to see that the average unemployment rate in Texas has gone up, but I’m glad that Tier III assistance is now available for people who are still actively trying to get back in the workforce,” said Rep. Green. Approximately 32,000 Unemployment Insurance (UI) claimants who have exhausted all previous tiers of benefits may be eligible for the extension. TWC will send eligible claimants a letter with instructions to call to reopen their Emergency Unemployment Compensation claim. For more information, visit the Texas Workforce Commission's Unemployment Benefits Services. ###
09.21.2012	Congressman Gene Green Statement for the Congressional Record on Alzheimer's Action Day September 21, 2012 Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize September 21, 2012 as Alzheimer’s Action Day and to offer my support for the Alzheimer’s Association and their work to provide care and support for individuals with Alzheimer’s and their families. The Alzheimer’s Association - Houston and Southeast Texas Chapter has served Southwest Houston since 1980, when caregivers Harry Walker and Al Malyn created the chapter at a local church to care for their wives. The organization now includes over 300 volunteers who serve 37 countries. With chapters like this, the Alzheimer’s Association is able to make a difference. I would like to congratulate this chapter’s hard work and accomplishments and thank them for their leadership in our community. Alzheimer’s disease leaves millions of American families in emotional and financial ruin. It affects more than 4 million people nationwide and will affect as many as 14 million by 2050. Additionally, almost 15 million Americans are caring for a person with Alzheimer’s disease or another dementia. My mother-in-law battled this disease, so I understand how devastating it can be. During the last Congress, I was a cosponsor of the National Alzheimer’s Project Act, introduced by our colleague Representative Markey. This important law created the Office of the National Alzheimer’s Project and called for a National Alzheimer’s Plan. During this Congress, I am pleased Representative Markey continues his efforts aimed at combating Alzheimer’s by introducing the HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act, which I have cosponsored and I believe it deserves consideration by the House. Making advances in Alzheimer’s is a goal in our national interest. We must continue funding programs aimed at education, support and research. This enjoys bipartisan support and I am proud to work with our colleagues to maintain our nation’s commitment to this effort.
08.15.2012	Washington – Yesterday, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) sent Rep. Gene Green a letter concerning their efforts to bring certainty back to the market for biomass-based diesel fuels (biodiesel). “This issue was first brought to my attention last November and since then I have been encouraging the EPA to take measures to provide stability in the biodiesel market,” said Rep. Gene Green. “I am pleased to see the EPA finally committing to a regulatory timeline to fix the problem and working to ensure that when the 2013 compliance year starts, producers and buyers can be assured that if any fraudulent RINs remain, there is a liability system in place that encourages refiners, traders and blenders to purchase RINs from both small and large biodiesel producers.” Section 211(o) of the Clean Air Act, as established by the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and amended by the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, requires EPA to establish and manage a Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) program to ensure that transportation fuels contain a minimum volume of renewable fuels. The Clean Air Act, as amended in 2005 and 2007, also requires EPA to create a program that allows parties subject to the renewable fuels program to generate, buy, and sell credits representing a certain amount of renewable fuels. EPA established a credit tracking and trading system based on the renewable identification number (RIN), a unique 38-digit code that is assigned to each gallon of biofuel produced or imported into the United States. Over the course of the past year, the production of and trade in fraudulent or invalid RINs has emerged as a significant problem within the market for biomass-based diesel fuels. In the wake of the announcements of this fraud, and related enforcement actions by EPA to require obligated parties to replace the invalid RINs, the market for biodiesel RINs has tightened dramatically. Most affected appear to be small producers and other biodiesel marketers who are having difficulty selling RINs to obligated parties, which have backed away from transacting with all but the largest and most-well known biodiesel producers. A copy of the letter can be found here. ###
07.31.2012	Washington – Rep. Gene Green praised the United States Postal Service’s announcement that a stamp honoring the 100th anniversary of the birthday of Lady Bird Johnson, wife of the 36th President of the United States Lyndon Baines Johnson, will be issued. “Lady Bird Johnson was an iconic Texan and beloved national figure. Her focus on beautification and nature preservation was significant nationwide and especially in Texas,” stated Rep. Green. “We can thank her for the scenic wildflowers we see every spring that brighten our highways.” Congressman Green led a bipartisan letter to U.S. Postmaster Patrick Donahue in June asking that a Lady Bird Johnson stamp be issued in commemoration of her 100th birthday. The letter was also endorsed by Rep. Michael McCaul, Rep. Lloyd Doggett, Rep. Ralph Hall, Rep. Mike Conaway, Rep. Charlie Gonzalez, Rep. Joe Barton, and Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee. Mrs. Johnson’s Forever Stamp will feature her official White House portrait and will be available nationwide in December 2012. A copy of the bipartisan letter sent to Postmaster Donahue can be found at https://green.house.gov/sites/green.house.gov/files/documents/lady_bird_johnson_stamp_2012.pdf. The press release issued by the U.S. Postal Service can be accessed at https://about.usps.com/news/national-releases/2012/pr12_090.htm. ###
07.31.2012	Houston – Rep. Gene Green honored the 47th anniversary of the enactment of Medicare. President Lyndon B. Johnson signed Medicare into law on July 30, 1965. Rep. Green stated, “Today, we celebrate the tremendous success of Medicare in providing health care security to seniors and people with disabilities. Medicare has transformed the lives of Americans for generations, and I strongly support strengthening Medicare to ensure that it remains available for future generations.” Today, Medicare provides comprehensive health care coverage to 48 million Americans, including 40 million seniors and 8 million people under 65 with disabilities. Congressman Green celebrated with the Texas Alliance for Retired Americans at their Medicare 47th Anniversary Celebration in Houston. Congressman Green also noted that the Affordable Care Act of 2010, which he helped write and amend, has allowed over 1,010,000 people with Medicare have received free preventive services in the first five months of 2012. This includes key preventive services such as mammograms and colonoscopies and a free Annual Wellness Visit. ###
07.11.2012	Washington – Congressman Gene Green spoke out on the floor of the House of Representatives against repealing the Affordable Care Act, a law which has already benefited millions of Americans in Texas and across the nation. In his statement, Representative Green noted: “This Congress we have spent most of our time voting on messaging bills and very little time actually legislating. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle and I agree on many issues, we even agree about some of the short comings of the ACA. No bill is perfect and we should be spending our time improving the bill, not abolishing it. Repealing this law is a vote to drop college students from their parents’ health plan. It is a vote to allow insurance companies to discriminate against women and withhold life saving procedures because of pre-existing conditions. A repeal would mean children, families, and working Americans are denied health insurance. A repeal would mean 13 million Americans do not receive rebates on their health insurance. In my district in Houston and East Harris County, Texas, we have one of the highest uninsured rates in the country. The bill today denies my hardworking constituents a chance to qualify and purchase health insurance. There is no question that repeal is a bad policy, this is all politics and it’s not what the American people want. I am asking the majority to put partisanship aside and reach across the aisle to improve this bill and not resort to partisan gimmickry that exposes our nation’s most vulnerable to even more pain and suffering.” Rep. Green served on the Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Health during drafting of the Affordable Care Act and helped write and amend the legislation.
06.28.2012	Washington – In response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling this morning on the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act, Congressman Green released the following statement: “I am very pleased by the decision from the Supreme Court today. The Affordable Care Act has already benefited millions of Americans and will continue to help those who are in greatest need of health insurance: children, young adults, people with pre-existing conditions, and people who are financially constrained. Coming from the 29th Congressional District of Texas, this is particularly important because we have one of the highest rates of uninsured individuals in the country. It’s good to be able to move past the question of constitutionality and continue implementing the bill.” Congressman Green served on the House Energy and Commerce’s Subcommittee on Health which drafted the Affordable Care Act. Link: Benefits of the Health Care Reform Law in the 29th Congressional District of Texas (March 2012) ###
06.19.2012	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced that the City of Houston will be receiving $15 million under the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery Grant program (TIGER) that will include over 18 miles of hike and bike trails, sidewalk improvements, and on-street bikeways. Reps. Gene Green, Al Green, and Sheila Jackson Lee were all instrumental in supporting the City of Houston’s application. In response to the news, Congressman Gene Green stated, “I am pleased that the Department of Transportation has chosen to make this important investment in our communities. Improving our pedestrian and bike infrastructure will make it easier for our constituents to get to work and run errands. It will mean they stay healthier and are able to use public transportation more often. I appreciate the leadership of Secretary LaHood and I am proud of our Congressional Delegation members who pulled together to help make this happen.” Congressman Al Green said, “I am proud to have been a part of the team effort, which will bring TIGER Grant jobs to Houston. The jobs associated with these transportation projects will help our city’s economy continue to move forward.” Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee added, “I am pleased that officials here in Washington, DC saw it fit that Houston’s projects meet the highest requirements for funding eligibility through this Tiger Grant. I was pleased to work strategically with my colleagues both Congressman Gene Green and Al Green to assure the residents of Houston have the best when it comes to transportation options to invest in the improvements for roads, bridges, rail, ports, transit and intermodal facilities.. These federal funds will help create jobs and put Houstonians back to work. Providing new or better transportation connections for residents and commuters is critical to livability.” Houston has the largest number of bike commuters in Texas. The City’s plan aims to improve safety for pedestrians and bicyclists, support the current demand for trails and bikeways, connect important destinations like Houston’s major universities and downtown, and provide alternative transportation to important economically disadvantaged neighborhoods. A copy of Rep. Gene Green, Rep. Al Green, and Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee’s support letter can be found at https://green.house.gov/sites/green.house.gov/files/documents/City_Of_Houston_TIGER_grant_support_letter.pdf ###
05.31.2012	Washington - Late last night, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly supported the Food and Drug Administration Reform Act. Included in this bill is the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now (GAIN) Act, a bipartisan bill introduced by Representatives Gene Green (D-TX) and Phil Gingrey (R-GA), and supported by several other Members from both sides of the aisle. The GAIN Act is a critical step toward addressing the looming public health crisis of drug resistant bacterial infections. This bill gives the FDA the tools necessary to incentivize the development of next generation antibiotics that will keep us safe and healthy in the event of a virulent “superbug.” “As a physician for more than 30 years, I understand first-hand the urgent need for innovative, life-saving medical treatments,” said Rep. Gingrey. “Unfortunately, the number of new drugs approved by the FDA has diminished significantly over the past two decades. If we are to prevent a future public health crisis, we must streamline the FDA regulatory process and ensure the further development of new antibiotics to treat dangerous ‘superbugs.’ This legislation will encourage investment in new drug development and I look forward to it being signed into law.” “The incentives in this bill are critical to getting drugs to market that treat serious and life threatening infections that are currently unavailable,“ said Rep. Green, “There are already instances of death and serious complications in our country due to drug resistant pathogens. We cannot allow a reversion to the way things were before penicillin, when scraped knees and minor injuries were life threatening and difficult to treat. Without our bill, the drug companies will simply not develop these drugs and we will continue to be exposed to the risk of a large scale public health crisis, which experts believe is likely within the next ten years.” The GAIN Act provisions of the bill represent a careful bipartisan balance that appropriately protects patient safety and responsibly offers incentives to innovative drug companies seeking cures to the world’s most deadly bacterial pathogens such as extensively drug resistant tuberculosis, MRSA, and others that we are currently ill-equipped to treat. The GAIN Act is supported by the public health community and the pharmaceutical industry. # # #
05.31.2012	Houston – During an Offshore Energy Tour hosted by Rep. Steve Scalise (LA-01), Rep. Gene Green toured the Shell Brutus 1 in the Gulf of Mexico, noting the success of Shell’s production and progress toward restoring the Gulf economy. “I was glad to see that the Gulf of Mexico is heading in the right direction and getting back to work. There is still a lot of room for improvement but the increase in permitting and production has been crucial in securing American jobs, boosting investment in the local economies, and promoting our energy independence.” Production in the Gulf of Mexico is critical to the nation as it provides 30 percent of the United States’ domestic crude oil supply. Prior to the moratorium, the average final approval time from an original submission to final approval was 50 days. Shell’s exploration plan for the deepwater work was approved in about 100 days and required a site specific environmental assessment. On Noble Energy’s Bully 1 deepwater drill ship, Members had the opportunity to have lunch with Shell employees and hear their stories first-hand on how their lives have been affected by the moratorium. # # #
05.17.2012	Houston – Congressman Green and Houston City Councilman Ed Gonzalez have teamed up to encourage recycling and keeping jobs at home by supporting our domestic recyclers. A collection drive of unwanted electronic products (“e-waste”) will be held this Saturday, May 19, from 9:00 am to 1:00 pm in the Houston Community College Northline campus’ parking lot, located at 8001 Fulton, in Houston, 77022. Old or unwanted electronics will be accepted, including items like computers, TV’s, DVD players, cell phones, fax machines, and microwaves. In addition, car batteries, oil, paint, and anti-freeze will also be collected at the event. “Electronic waste is a fast-growing waste stream in the United States, and it can pose a serious problem because most electronics have toxic chemicals that can cause environmental and health concerns when they’re not properly recycled,” said Rep. Green. Earlier this session, Congressman Green introduced H.R. 2284, “The Responsible Electronics Recycling Act,” in response to growing concerns about improper recycling practices of discarded consumer electronic products. The bill would prohibit the exportation of some electronics whose improper disposal may create environmental, health, or national security risks. ###
05.17.2012	Houston – Congressman Gene Green announced the winner of the Congressional Art Competition for the 29th District at an art exhibit on Friday, May 11. The 1st place winner was Cristian Cardenas, a junior from Sam Rayburn High School in Pasadena ISD. His drawing, titled “Nothing is Impossible,” will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. “What I enjoy most about the art competition is seeing the artwork of all of the talented students across the district. I’m glad we have this opportunity to recognize and encourage their artistic abilities,” said Rep. Green. Mr. Cardenas and his parents will also receive a free trip to Washington, D.C. to attend a reception recognizing all Congressional Art Competition winners from across the United States. The nation-wide Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to recognize and encourage young artists and is open to high school students. This year, almost 50 pieces from high schools across the 29th District were entered in the competition. ###
05.01.2012	Houston – On Saturday, April 28, Congressman Gene Green and Keep Houston Beautiful celebrated their tenth year of jointly hosting the annual North Channel Area Community Clean-up. Over 75 volunteers came to help with the efforts that included parts of the East Freeway, Greens Bayou, and the North Channel areas. The cleanup also coincided with Keep America Beautiful’s first-ever “National Day of Action,” which featured activities in nearly all 50 states. Rep. Green stated, “It’s great to see how this project has grown. It started as a crime prevention and neighborhood safety effort and has since become a real community event.” Congressman Green has held monthly Neighborhood Safety Meetings for 13 years in partnership with the Houston Police Department’s Northeast Division, local civic clubs, churches, schools, businesses, and other governmental agencies and officials. Partners that joined in Saturday’s efforts included: the City of Houston, Keep Houston Beautiful, Neighborhood Protection, Houston Police Department, State Senator Mario Gallegos, State Rep. Ana Hernandez-Luna, State Rep. Harold Dutton, Councilman James Rodriguez, Council Members Melissa Noriega, C.O. Bradford and Andrew Burkes. Community groups and civic clubs included the Northeast Houston Advisory Council, Partners In Power, Wood Shadows I, Wood Shadows II, E.T.C.P., Holiday Forest and Songwood Civic Clubs. School partners included Furr High School and North Shore Senior High. # # #
04.25.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green was recently inaugurated as President of the Texas State Society at the Texas State Society’s Annual Meeting & San Jacinto Day Celebration in D.C. Congressman Green will preside over the organization for the 2012 to 2013 term. At the meeting, Rep. Green stated, “I’m honored to have been chosen to lead the Texas State Society. As the Member of Congress for the 29th District of Texas, this is an especially significant year since I proudly represent the San Jacinto battlefield in East Harris County, where Texas fought and gained its independence 176 years ago.” This is also a big year for the Texas State Society since they will be hosting their Black Tie & Boots Inaugural Ball on January 19, 2013, on the banks of the Potomac River at the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center. Congressman Green added, “Black Tie and Boots is the best inaugural ball in D.C. If you’ve been before, you know it’s the best in town and is an unforgettable and one of a kind event. We’re really looking forward to it since we’ll have the biggest names in Texas entertainment, food and drinks from iconic Texas spots, and even a Texas Fair. Whether you’re from Texas or not, it’s going to be a great time.” The Texas State Society was formed in 1904 as an all-volunteer organization aimed at bringing Texans together for fellowship at the National Capital. Former Texas State Society Presidents include President Lyndon B. Johnson, Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, and a myriad of Texas Congressman. Today, the Texas State Society’s events include Breakfast Club meetings with special guests, a Father's Day Picnic, a LBJ Birthday Celebration, and a “Terlingua” Two-Step dance. For more information on joining the Texas State Society and obtaining tickets to the 2013 Black Tie & Boots Inaugural Ball, visit www.texasstatesociety.org ###
04.19.2012	Out of all 50 states, Texas has the greatest need for health care reform. The 2010 census found that Texas has the highest rate of uninsured residents in the U.S., with one in four Texans uninsured. This means 6.4 million Texans don't have any health insurance. Houston fared even worse. The 29th congressional district, which I represent, has the highest rate of uninsured individuals in the entire nation. The fact that 43 percent of nonelderly adults and 26 percent of children lack health insurance is unconscionable. Since the Affordable Care Act was signed, active provisions in the law have already started to help us face our health care crisis and have benefited many different constituencies. In the greater Houston area alone, more than 81,000 young adults now have health insurance because of the age limit extension for dependent coverage. Throughout the Houston area's nine congressional districts, 4,230 small businesses have claimed tax credits to help with their contributions to employee coverage, and 552,000 seniors have received critical preventive screenings and services through Medicare without a co-pay. Quality is just as important as quantity and our health care community has received millions of dollars in federal grants since 2010 to support and improve the care they provide. The Houston area has seen $39.2 million in grants to support our outstanding hospitals, expand our community health centers, train our doctors and nurses and pursue other public health priorities like disease research. Almost all of the benefits of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act will come into effect by 2014, and it's estimated that more than 1 million residents of greater Houston who don't currently have health insurance will have coverage for the first time. For those in our area who have health insurance, 4.1 million can rest assured that their coverage will not be dropped if they become ill or face lifetime limits on coverage. As the Supreme Court considers the arguments for and against the health care reform law, it's critical that we take a moment to acknowledge the enormous benefits that this law has provided in only two years. We will still need to work together to improve it, which Congress does with many bills, but we have made a huge leap toward improving the lives of millions of Americans through access to affordable and quality health care, and bans on unreasonable premium hikes or coverage denial for the people who need it most. It's our duty as Americans and legislators to make sure that no American has to forgo or be denied life-saving health care in the greatest nation in the world.
04.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green released the following statement regarding news that Houston ranked #7 in the EPA’s evaluation of U.S. metropolitan areas with the most Energy Star certified buildings for 2011: Rep. Green stated, “I’m glad to see that Houston continues to be among the nation’s leading cities for energy efficiency. Technology has come a long way and now there are lots of products and practices that people can use to save energy and money.” This year marks Energy Star’s 20th anniversary. Since then, more than 16,500 buildings have earned the EPA's Energy Star certification, 231 of which are in Houston. The EPA estimates that the Energy Star market partnership has saved Americans around $230 billion in utility bills and prevented more than 1.7 billion tons of carbon pollution. More information on the rankings can be found at www.energystar.gov/ia/business/downloads/2011_Top_Cities_chart.pdf
03.08.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Gene Green spoke in front of the Committee on the Budget in a hearing regarding his priorities for the federal budget for fiscal year 2013. Congressman Green emphasized that Democrats and Republicans must work together to produce a budget that simultaneously helps meet our economic, health care, energy, and social challenges. An abridgment of Congressman Green’s remarks is below: ENERGY I oppose the President’s proposed tax increases on the oil and gas industry. An $85 billion tax hike would suppress our domestic production, stifle job creation, drive up imports of crude oil from nations that are hostile to us, and increase the volatility of the gasoline markets. The U.S. oil and natural gas industry does not receive tax subsidies. In fact, there is not a single targeted tax credit in the Internal Revenue Code available to the oil and natural gas industry. Instead, the industry is allowed to take deductions to recover the costs of doing business, which has been afforded to all businesses since the beginning of our country’s income tax system. Finally, it’s important to note that the average independent production company has only 12 employees – the definition of a true small business. Repealing these incentives would single-handedly destroy thousands of small businesses across our country. PORT OF HOUSTON Another priority in the 29th District is the Port of Houston. Our Port is the largest petrochemical port in the country and moves the second largest amount of cargo in the country. The commerce that occurs at our port is critical to our nation’s energy and chemical sectors and to our country’s ability to trade and move goods throughout our country. The number one issue that the Port faces is maintenance dredging that keeps the Houston Ship Channel at a depth and width that allows barges to access the Port. Due to silting, only 0.4% of the channel is dredged to its proper depth. Studies have shown that the direct economic impact of losing 1 foot of draft is $373 million due to lost business opportunities. If the dredging crisis at the Port continues to worsen, this cost will quickly escalate so we must continue to fund port maintenance and increase it if possible. NASA Once again, I am frustrated with the Administration’s handling of manned space flight. The President’s Budget funds the Space Launch System (SLS) and the Multi Purpose Crew Vehicle (MPCV) programs but it is far under the authorized level and current year levels. They moved that money to commercial ventures which do not have the track record of our team at NASA, especially the folks at Houston’s Johnson Space Center. We cannot cut the knees out from under NASA-led human space flight. Without the investments in SLS and MPCV, I am afraid our country will not be equipped to continue to be the world leader in science, technology, and space flight. Congress agrees and spoke very clearly to the importance of manned space flight programs in the 2010 authorization bill and again in appropriations language. I request that the SLS and MPCV programs be funded, at the very least, at their current year levels. If not, I fear in 5 years we may be sitting in this room without any programs to fund. ###
02.22.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green released the following statement in support of the United States Postal Service’s announcement today that 2 post offices in the 29th Congressional District that were on a list of post offices to be studied for potential closure are no longer under consideration for discontinuance. “Initially there were 5 post offices in the 29th District that were on the Postal Service’s list so, while I’m glad that our Denver Harbor and Park Place offices are no longer being considered for closing, the possible loss of the other 3 are still a large concern for our community. The post offices in our area are in urban and minority neighborhoods that are growing and still rely heavily on the services at these post offices.” Congressman Green sent a letter to the USPS Postmaster General, Patrick Donahue, last August regarding his concerns about the initial closure announcement. A letter was also sent to the District Manager of the USPS for the Greater Houston area last June on the same topic. Copies of the letters can be found here (U.S. Postmaster) and here (Houston District Manager).
02.07.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) and Congressman Bill Flores (R-Texas), along with Robert Wittman (R-Va.) and Jim Costa (D-Calif.), sent a joint bipartisan letter with 182 Member signatures to Interior Secretary Ken Salazar expressing strong support in the House for the consideration of new and expanded access to the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) for the production of oil and natural gas in the Proposed Outer Continental Shelf Plan for 2012-2017. Even with limited data, the Department of Interior estimates 86 billion barrels of oil and 420 trillion cubic feet of gas remain in undiscovered fields. Until September 2008, 90% of the offshore was off-limits to development or even assessment because of federal moratoria. At the time these moratoria were removed, it was anticipated that without these obstacles, broader access would reduce our dependency on potentially unstable foreign sources, laying the groundwork for new jobs, energy, and revenues. Yet, the Proposed Outer Continental Shelf Plan for 2012-2017, released by the Department of the Interior in November 2011, failed to open any new areas on the Outer Continental Shelf for the consideration of new energy production through 2017. “Opening up these areas to study is critical in working toward establishing a stable and safe domestic energy supply. By not exploring the possibility of opening new areas to energy production through 2017, we are stifling the resources we have to grow our economy. This letter shows that there is strong bipartisan support for assessing these areas and I hope that the Administration will not continue to limit our offshore production potential,” said Rep. Green. The letter can be found here. ###
01.24.2012	Washington, D.C. – Following President Obama’s State of the Union speech tonight, Congressman Gene Green issued the following statement: “The greatest priority for Congress is creating jobs so I was glad to hear President Obama address this as a major priority of his. I strongly agree that we need to focus on strengthening our economy for the long haul so that we don’t continue to experience boom-and-bust economic cycles where the schemes of a wealthy few devastate the lives of millions of middle class families. Our job base in the 29th District is largely based on manufacturing and energy production so initiatives that boost the number of goods made in the United States and limit outsourcing will help create more domestic jobs. In addition, increasing traditional and renewable energy production is great for job creation, increasing our energy independence and security, and addressing our long-term energy needs. I was not pleased at the President's comments about ending tax incentives for oil companies though. It’s not fair to penalize one specific industry unjustly, much less one that's so critical to our nation's economy. As the President mentioned, we need to work together to address the interests and challenges of our great nation. Everyone deserves a fair chance at the American Dream and it’s the responsibility of the President and Congress, Democrats and Republicans, to take action so this is possible for current and future generations.” ###
01.24.2012	Congressman Gene Green is encouraged by progress made by Congress toward authorizing a spectrum auction. For the last several months, he has worked with his colleagues, Democrat and Republican, to find a middle ground that protects free over the air television and provides public safety professionals the tools they need to do their jobs safely. “As Congress continues its work on spectrum legislation, it is the role and obligation of Congress to specify the authority of regulatory agencies such as the FCC. It is important that the Commission is reminded that they are not permitted to operate outside the constraints of Congressional authority. I am confident that Congress will complete its work on spectrum and allow a spectrum auction that creates a nationwide interoperable public safety network, increases efficiencies in our spectrum use, and protects free over the air television.” ###
01.19.2012	Washington – Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry Waxman and Environment and the Economy Subcommittee Ranking Member Gene Green sent a letter to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton and Environment and the Economy Subcommittee Chairman John Shimkus calling for a hearing on legislative proposals to modernize the manifest system for shipment of hazardous waste. “This legislation would modernize the shipment and storage of hazardous waste, offering greater protection for communities, first responders, and the environment, while offering significant savings to industry and states,” said Rep. Waxman. “The House should work swiftly to pass this common sense bipartisan legislation that will reduce the burden of paperwork for businesses and modernize the Environmental Protection Agency’s hazardous waste tracking process,” said Rep. Green. Last year, the Senate passed S. 710, legislation to create an electronic manifest system, and Reps. Waxman and Green urge Chairmen Upton and Shimkus to work to expedite its passage through the Committee and the House. The full text of the letter is below and also available online here.
01.18.2012	Washington – Only moments ago, President Obama officially announced that he would not be supporting the Keystone XL Pipeline. Congressman Green had the following statement on this news: “ I am very disappointed in the President’s decision today. While I understand his frustration at having to decide in a 60 day time frame, he could have conditionally approved the construction while TransCanada, the State Department and Nebraska work on an alternate route through Nebraska. My hope is that TransCanada quickly resubmits their application and that the Administration works with them on an expedited schedule since the National Environmental Policy Act process has already been conducted. Any further delays by the Administration only prolong our dependence on oil from nations that are hostile to us and could encourage the Canadians to sell their product elsewhere.” ###
01.12.2012	Houston – On January 10, nearly 200 students and parents attended Congressman Gene Green’s Paying for College Workshop at Cesar Chavez High School, one of the largest audiences since the event’s inception. “We hold this workshop twice a year because it’s really important that students have the information and tools they need to apply for college. I was glad to see that so many students and parents came out,” stated Rep. Green. “It really shows the commitment of our community to helping students.” The winner of the $500 scholarship drawing was Latori Deshotel, a senior at Chavez High School. Ms. Deshotel has been accepted at Texas Southern University and will major in engineering. The Sallie Mae Fund presented information to students and parents from across the Houston area about planning for college, navigating the financial aid process, and applying for scholarships. The workshop also featured representatives from the U.S. Naval Academy and local colleges including the University of Houston and Everest College. ###
12.20.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Gene Green supported passing H.R. 3630, which would extend middle class tax cuts, keep millions of Americans from losing unemployment benefits, and authorize payments to doctors accepting Medicare. This bill received over 90% support in the Senate. House Republicans rejected the bill in a party-line vote of 229-193 and sent it to a conference committee. Rep. Green stated: “The Senate was able to hammer out and address the issues I had with the previous bill text, including extending the Social Security tax cuts, extending the current reimbursement rate to doctors for their Medicare services, and not penalizing Americans receiving unemployment benefits by cutting the maximum number of weeks in half. I had hoped that we could rally behind these critical reauthorizations and am disappointed and frustrated that House Republicans chose to play politics instead of doing what’s right for millions of Americans.” If no reauthorization is passed, beginning January 1, 2012, millions of Americans will be affected: 160 million Americans will face a tax hike, averaging $1,000 for the typical family; 2.2 million Americans will lose their unemployment benefits; and 48 million seniors could lose access to their doctors. ###
12.16.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gene Green voted against the GOP’s “Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2011,” H.R. 3630, which was ultimately passed in the House by a measure of 234-193 on December 13, 2011. Rep. Green stated, "Although I strongly support extending tax cuts for the middle-class and the Keystone XL Pipeline, after careful consideration, I was unable to vote in favor of this bill because of provisions that would be devastating to my constituents and our nation. Drastically cutting back on the number of weeks that unemployment benefits can be received when we have 8.5% unemployment is like being the Grinch who stole Christmas. If we want to cut the deficit, we need to get people back to work, not cut unemployment benefits.” H.R. 3630 cuts unemployment insurance benefits for one million Americans and lowers the maximum amount of time unemployment benefits are provided from the current 99 weeks to 59 weeks. The legislation would also allow states to reduce the average weekly amount available to beneficiaries.
12.07.2011	In a rare act of bipartisan agreement, the House passed H.R. 2405, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2011, by a unanimous voice vote on Tuesday, December 6. Congressman Green was an original cosponsor and key proponent of the bill. Introduced by Rep. Mike Rogers (R-MI) and Rep. Green, H.R. 2405 reauthorizes certain provisions of the Project Bioshield Act of 2004 and Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act of 2006. The legislation continues to help the U.S. develop medical countermeasures against chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear terrorism agents. It also provides a mechanism for federal acquisition of those newly developed countermeasures. In addition, H.R. 2405 reauthorizes public health preparedness programs, which are vital to state and local public health departments as well as hospitals in the event of a disaster. Congressman Green addressed the House floor in support of the bill: “Our nation remains vulnerable to these terroristic threats because many of the vaccines and medicines that are needed to protect our citizens do not exist. Developing and stockpiling these medical countermeasures requires time, resources, and research, all of which will be provided under the legislation before us today.” H.R. 2405 will be sent to the Senate for consideration. The Senate version of the legislation, S. 1855, has also been introduced on a bipartisan basis by Senators Burr (R-NC) and Harkin (D-IA). ###
12.05.2011	On December 2, Congressman Gene Green proudly announced that Pasadena Health Center, located in the 29th Congressional District, was awarded a $264,791 grant from the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. Congressman Green submitted a support letter in July for this grant, which will enable Pasadena Health Center to continue the critical services they provide to the community. Green stated, “The 29th District has a high need for services from our community health centers so I was glad to help Pasadena Health Centers with a support letter and am glad to hear they were awarded the grant. Last year they served over 5,000 patients so it’s great that they have received assistance to keep up their important work.” The Texas Department of State Health Services reports that as of June 2011, there are only 64 Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) in the state of Texas, including the Pasadena Health Center. A list of those locations can be found here. ###
12.05.2011	Along with much of the nation, I was disappointed to see that the congressional supercommittee's deliberations did not result in a deficit reduction plan. As a result, automatic cuts will be implemented across all federal government agencies, with 50 percent from defense spending and 50 percent from domestic programs. I hope that Congress comes together to come up with a more sensible approach than allowing across-the-board cuts. Although Social Security is off the chopping block for this sequester, I am still concerned that future plans may include cutting funding to Social Security or reducing benefits to shrink the federal deficit. Social Security is fully self-funded through the taxes that you, employers and I pay from our paychecks. This revenue stream is separate from the federal tax dollars used to fund all other federal programs, so it isn't right to cut Social Security benefits since beneficiary payments do not contribute to the federal deficit. In fact, the federal government has borrowed and owes the Social Security Trust Fund about $3 trillion. To control the federal deficit, we must look at cutting spending and increasing revenue - cutting spending alone will not get us close enough. We had a balanced budget in 1999 and 2000 under a Democratic president and a Republican Congress and I think we can do it again if we roll up our sleeves and work together to increase jobs, increase revenue through making the wealthiest Americans pay the same taxes that our middle-income citizens pay, and cutting government spending. We can do all this without having to endanger the Social Security Trust Fund or cut benefits to the current or future beneficiaries of Social Security. Social Security will need to be reformed in the coming years to extend its solvency past the year 2036, which is how it stands today. However, these reforms should be done in legislation separate from our efforts to balance our budget. What we need to do is cut unnecessary spending on other federal programs, and increase revenue by creating jobs and putting people back to work. That way, they can become financially stable enough to not need government assistance like unemployment insurance or Medicaid, and they can start paying taxes into our system. As Congress continues to look at ways to reduce our deficit, we need to remember that Social Security is not the problem or cause of our $15 trillion debt. Social Security has been around since 1936 and I hope that it will last for my children and grandchildren. However, it will not last if the government continues to borrow from the Social Security Trust Fund to pay for growing government expenses.
11.17.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gene Green released the following statement on the Balanced Budget Amendment being voted on later today (H.J.Res. 2), which offers little to help the American people and will inevitably cause drastic cuts to Social Security and other essential programs: “I am deeply concerned about the state of our nation's finances and agree that we need to examine legislative proposals to reduce our deficit to a level that is both manageable and sustainable so we can put our country on a path to economic stability and prosperity. I am open to the idea of a balanced budget amendment but I have a problem with the fact that this particular proposal does not explicitly exclude Social Security from the spending cuts. Social Security is an entirely separate revenue stream so it should not be raided to offset other expenses. Social Security is solvent until the year 2036 without any changes, which means that there will be a need for reforms, but those reforms should be done separately from our efforts to balance our budget and put our nation on a better fiscal path. I also have concerns about the impact a mandate to keep a strictly balanced budget will have on our nation's future ability to respond to crises and answer any threats to our national security.” Over 275 national organizations and over 423 state and local organizations have signed on to letters opposing H.J.Res. 2. Copies of those letters can be found here: National, State/Local.
11.11.2011	This Veterans Day, Congressman Gene Green is visiting with injured soldiers at the Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany, the health facility where many soldiers from Iraq and Afghanistan are taken to receive care. This visit was part of a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) trip to the Middle East with four other Members of Congress. “It was an honor to be with our troops and spend time with them this Veterans Day. Sitting down and talking to them, you get to know these brave young men and women personally and it becomes clear that we have the best military because of these truly exceptional individuals. I cannot thank them enough for their service.” The group traveled to Afghanistan, Pakistan, the United Arab Emirates, and Iraq to meet with American troops and U.S. military and foreign officials to discuss the status of national security issues and soldier needs abroad. Texas has almost 26,200 troops deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan. This constitutes approximately 13% of all soldiers stationed abroad on these missions, more than any other state.
11.07.2011	Congressman Gene Green with Members of Congress, Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), and Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Major General Huggins, commander of U.S. and NATO forces in South Afghanistan, and soldiers at the FOB Pasab in Kandahar, Afghanistan. The Members had lunch and dinner with Texas soldiers and Marines serving in Afghanistan. The visit is part of a Congressional Delegation trip to the Middle East for meetings with military and government officials on security issues.
10.19.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gene Green released the following statement after the Social Security Administration announced today that there will be a 3.6% Cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) for Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) beneficiaries beginning in 2012: “I’m glad to hear that there will finally be a cost-of-living adjustment for seniors next year. There are close to 3.5 million Social Security beneficiaries in Texas that depend on Social Security for their livelihood. For the last three years, I’ve heard their concerns about seeing their costs rise without seeing an increase to their Social Security. As medical costs continue to grow, it’s critical that our seniors have the resources they need and depend on.” For more information on the 2012 Social Security cost-of-living adjustment, visit www.socialsecurity.gov/cola/.
10.19.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Gene Green led a letter to President Obama in support of the Keystone XL Pipeline Project as a key project of national interest in creating domestic jobs, raising revenue, and securing America’s energy independence. Twenty-one other Democrats also signed on to the letter requesting that the President grant a Presidential Permit to move forward with construction. The Keystone XL Pipeline project is estimated to bring in $20 billion of private sector investment into the American economy, create 20,000 direct jobs, spur the creation of 118,000 spin-off jobs, and pay out $5 billion in taxes to local counties over the project’s lifetime, in addition to contributing to America’s energy security and strengthening our national security. Congressman Green stated, “Across the U.S., Americans are calling for jobs today and the Keystone XL Pipeline project will do exactly that plus provide huge benefits to our national and local economies, and increase our energy supply and independence from foreign oil. I urge the President to act now and grant the permit so we can get started on this as soon as possible.” The project, which has bipartisan support in Congress, has also earned the support of national and local groups in the states along the pipeline’s route. An exhaustive three-year, multi-agency review process, which the Department of State has led, confirmed that the pipeline will have a positive impact on America’s economy, energy supply and independence from foreign oil, and national security. Representatives who signed Congressman Green’s letter are: Jason Altmire (PA-4), Joe Baca (CA-43), John Barrow (GA-12), Dan Boren (OK-2), Leonard Boswell (IA-3), Robert Brady (PA-1), Jim Costa (CA-20), Mark Critz (PA-12), Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Charlie Gonzalez (TX-20), Al Green (TX-9), Rubén Hinojosa (TX-15), Tim Holden (PA-17), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Daniel Lipinski (IL-3), Jim Matheson (UT-2), Carolyn McCarthy (NY-4), Bill Owens (NY-23), Collin Peterson (MN-7), Mike Ross (AR-4), and Peter Visclosky (IN-1). A copy of the letter can be found below.
10.12.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green issued the following statement on the proposed free trade agreements that are scheduled to be voted upon in the U.S. House of Representatives tonight: “At a time when 14 million Americans are out of work – one million in Texas alone - it is important that Congress not turn its back on our nation’s working families by voting for trade agreements that would hurt our domestic manufacturers. The Korea, Colombia, and Panama Free Trade Agreements are based on the same failed model as NAFTA, which has been one of the biggest factors in undermining our nation’s manufacturing base over the past 15 years. Texas alone has lost 150,199 manufacturing jobs since NAFTA was signed and these agreements will lead to further job losses and larger trade deficits. The Economic Policy Institute estimates that the Korea and Colombia trade deals will displace 214,000 American jobs and increase our trade deficit by nearly $17 billion. This is why I am opposed to all three agreements and intend on voting against them when they come before the U.S. House of Representatives. I am a strong supporter and will vote in favor of the Trade Adjustment Assistance program when it comes before Congress. This program provides vital support and services for workers who are displaced by foreign trade."
10.05.2011	Houston – In what was the largest job fair hosted by Congressman Green in the last ten years, over one thousand job seekers came to Congressman Gene Green’s 29th District Northside/Aldine Job Fair on Friday, September 30 at the M.O. Campbell Education Center in Houston. “Although Houston has not been hit as hard by the economic recession as the rest of the nation, the turnout here proves that we are still in great need of jobs, and Congress needs to pull together and act fast to spur job creation,” said Rep. Green. Over 50 employers attended, all offering open positions in the Houston area. A wide variety of industries were represented, including health care, sales, skilled trades, customer service, food services, security, transportation, engineering, accounting, finance, and insurance. Entities present included Aldine ISD, Cemex, FedEx, Houston Marriot North, the Port of Houston, Stewart & Stevenson LLC, Texas Department of Public Safety, Timken Boring Specialties, and Walmart. In addition, twelve colleges and training schools were available to offer information to attendees seeking further training. The Houston Area Plumbing Joint Apprenticeship, International Union of Operating Engineers, Houston Community College, and San Jacinto Community College were among the training institutions that attended. Rep. Green added, “whether you came looking for a new job or looking to get new skills for a better job, we hope everyone who attended benefited.”
09.23.2011	Houston, Texas – Congressman Gene Green congratulates Jefferson Davis High School on being awarded a $50,000 grant from the NFL’s Youth Football Fund Grassroots Program. Rep. Green wrote a letter in support of Jeff Davis for the grant last November for improvements to the field and facility. “As a graduate and former Jeff Davis football player, I’m really glad to see them receive this award. Being a part of a sports team or other extracurricular activity is a great way for kids to stay involved in school and their community.” The Houston Texans will present the $50,000 check to Jeff Davis High School at a ceremony on Tuesday, September 27, at 2:30 p.m. on the football field. A copy of the support letter sent by Congressman Green can be found here.
09.23.2011	Houston, Texas – Congressman Gene Green encourages residents to attend the United States Postal Service’s first public input meeting regarding possible closure of the Irvington post office, located in the 29th Congressional District at 7825 Fulton Street. The meeting will be held next Wednesday, September 28 at 6:30 pm at the Houston Community College Northline Campus. “The Postal Service is financially in a bad place but closing the Irvington office shuts them off to revenue from the college, residents and nearby businesses. I encourage residents to attend the meeting to voice their concerns so the Postal Service can find a solution that makes smart business sense and fulfills our needs as a community. I would urge them to look at moving retail operations into the Northline Commons area instead of just closing shop there entirely, which is why it’s important to attend the public input meetings to let the USPS know we need them to keep a service presence there.” The USPS Public Input Meeting will be held on: Wednesday, September 28, 2011 6:30 pm - 8:30 pm Houston Community College - Northline Campus 8001 Fulton Houston, Texas 77022 The Irvington post office is one of the 28 post offices being studied for possible closure in the United States Postal Service’s Houston district.
09.20.2011	JSC will remain at center of program With NASA’s recent announcement to move forward with the development of the Space Launch System (SLS), America now has the major elements in place to usher in a new era of human space exploration. In addition, Houston’s Johnson Space Center (JSC) will remain a vibrant centerpiece of America’s continued leadership in space. JSC is leading the effort to develop America’s next human exploration spacecraft and the world’s first interplanetary human space vehicle – the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (MPCV). Last year, we wrote to the Obama administration insisting that it amend plans to cancel Constellation, the next generation program to replace the shuttle. We presented an alternative plan that would instead pursue the immediate development of Orion and a heavy-lift rocket capable of launching Orion beyond low Earth orbit. Further, we all worked with our colleagues on the committees of jurisdiction to ensure that legislation passed by Congress was consistent with these goals. With NASA's announcement on the Orion MPCV and last week's announcement on the SLS, we are pleased to say that our compromise has been adopted. Orion continues to make tremendous progress. An Orion MPCV crew module is undergoing rigorous space environment testing. Work has begun to make the spacecraft ready for its first orbital test flight in 2013, and Orion is on track to support initial human operations in 2016/2017 – consistent with direction from Congress in the 2010 NASA Authorization Act. Just last week, NASA made the long overdue announcement that it will pursue development of the SLS. This is an essential element of maintaining America’s commitment to exploring beyond low Earth orbit. This announcement strengthens our nation and ensures we will continue to be the world leader in space exploration. Of course, there is always more to be done. The science and precursor exploration research aboard the International Space Station, for example, was recently endangered by the launch failure of a Russian Progress resupply mission. Russia has responded swiftly, and we are cautiously optimistic that the issue will be resolved and we will avoid leaving the station without a crew for the first time in more than a decade. Nevertheless, this incident highlights why we must move with haste toward augmenting America’s capabilities. It is also true that the moon/Mars focus of the Constellation program must be replaced with specific mission goals supported by space systems capabilities, program milestones and budget resources to accomplish them. We must move beyond vague statements about missions to asteroids and Mars in timeframes that are too distant or undefined. Finally, while we are pleased with the decisions regarding SLS and Orion, we will continue to push the Obama administration and NASA to maintain their commitment to go beyond low Earth orbit. Decisions must be made without delay and they absolutely must continue to use the talent, resources, and facilities that we have in Houston instead of reinventing the wheel in some other area. Houston is Space City, USA, and we plan to keep it that way.
09.14.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Green spoke out today on the floor of the House of Representatives to implore his colleagues to act quickly on the American Jobs Act to grow our economy and restore jobs: “Members, the jobs are the issue and the American Jobs Act is the solution and I hope that this House will consider it on the floor immediately. This bill would help reverse the flow of jobs overseas and would help rebuild the manufacturing base in America, providing good jobs for hardworking Americans. Making it in America creates jobs in America. This bill builds America. The long-term FAA reauthorization would create 150,000 jobs and reauthorizing the Surface Transportation bill would support 134,000 projects around the country, 5,000 mass transit projects, and nearly a million jobs over the next year. The national infrastructure bank proposal would combine public and private resources to build and repair the country’s key infrastructure. This bill will also create jobs through the tax code. The proposal cuts the payroll tax in half for the 98% of businesses on their first $5 million in payroll. It offers a $4,000 dollar tax credit to employers hiring long-term unemployed workers. Get them on the tax rolls and not on the unemployment rolls. And, it starts a Returning Heroes, hiring tax credit between $5,600 dollars and $9,600 dollars for firms that hire unemployed veterans. We have the responsibility to help our country climb out of this tough economy and this bill is a proposal that deserves bipartisan support to help accomplish that.” Congressman Green strongly supports these measures so that current and future generations of American workers have work opportunities available to them.
08.31.2011	Houston, Texas - Congressman Gene Green released the following statement in reaction to the Department of Justice’s announcement on filing a federal antitrust lawsuit against the pending AT&T/T-Mobile merger: “It is important that any merger be thoroughly vetted by the federal government to ensure that it complies with our laws. However, in this instance, I am disappointed that the Department of Justice has announced they are officially trying to block this merger. I am concerned that the impact of this deal falling through will be severe for our nation’s job market. It is important to note that AT&T, an American-owned company, just today, announced that as part of its deal to purchase T-Mobile, from its European parent company, it would reverse the decisions made by Deutsche Telekom that led to over 5,000 jobs being outsourced to Asia. It is this type of commitment to American job growth that must be encouraged, not blocked, if we are going to remain the largest, most productive economy with the most innovative technology sector in the world.”
08.04.2011	Washington, D.C. - In response to the stalemate on reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration, which has hurt thousands of government employees and construction workers who have been caught in the middle of the struggle, Congressman Green released the following statement: "Congress should extend the authorization of the FAA immediately without controversial issues added by the House Transportation Committee. The FAA authorization has been extended 20 times in the last few years. It’s not fair that these folks can’t get back to work doing their jobs, and that taxpayers are having to pay millions of dollars a day on these airport improvement projects that have been stopped mid-process."
08.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – After a long and arduous wait for appropriate legislation addressing the federal debt ceiling and budget, Congressman Green released the following statement regarding his vote today on passage of Senate bill 365, the “Budget Control Act of 2011.” “I voted in favor of the debt ceiling compromise today because it satisfied the most important problems at hand: raising the debt ceiling so our country doesn’t default and negatively affect our economy, and safeguarding some of our most important government programs like Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and Pell grants from immediate cuts. Under this plan, these vital programs will also not be threatened or used as bargaining chips to force us to approve any future plans created by the bipartisan Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction that is formed by this bill. I can assure my constituents and our nation that I will never vote to endanger our seniors, veterans, students, or those in need, by undercutting these important programs.”
08.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Green released the following statement regarding the pending debt deal: “I'm glad an agreement was reached to avoid defaulting on our national debt. Like all legislation that comes to the House, I still need to see the actual language before casting my vote to make sure the specifics are what's good for my constituents and the nation.”
07.29.2011	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday the House Committee on Energy and Commerce unanimously passed a bipartisan bill to reauthorize critical chemical and bioterrorism preparedness programs. H.R. 2405, the Pandemic All Hazard Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2011, which was bipartisanly introduced by Rep Mike Rogers (R-MI), Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), and Rep. Sue Myrick (R-NC) has now been reported to the full U.S. House of Representatives for consideration. “Nearly a decade has passed since 9/11, the worst terrorist attack on U.S. soil in history. And while there has not been a successful attack on U.S. soil in the last ten years, our enemies are still working every day to kill innocent Americans,” said Rep. Rogers. “Thankfully, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce has passed a bill to strengthen federal efforts to stockpile medical countermeasures and protect the public from pandemics, or a chemical or biological attack. I look forward to the House passing it once it reaches the floor for a vote.” Rep. Sue Myrick, Energy and Commerce Vice Chair and an original cosponsor, added, "Weapons used by terrorists today aren't just bombs and bullets. We have to make sure that the resources are available to rapidly and effectively respond to a biological attack and its aftermath as well. It's the first responsibility of the federal government to protect its citizens, and while I hope we never have to use the resources allocated through this bill, I appreciate the bipartisan support of the Committee for this vital reauthorization." Rep. Green, another original cosponsor, commented, "Developing and stockpiling medical countermeasures to chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear terrorism agents is essential in this day and age. All of this requires time, resources, and research, all of which will be provided under this bill. I’m glad to see everyone united behind this cause."
07.27.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Green released the following statement in opposition to the United States Postal Service’s (USPS) recent announcement that they are examining the possible closure of 220 post offices in Texas, including five in the 29th Congressional District. “I have lived in Houston all my life. Many of the local post offices that were listed by the Postal Service for possible closure have been an important part of our community for decades. I am particularly shocked that the USPS would target post offices in urban and minority neighborhoods that are growing and thriving and use the services at these post offices. The recent census showed that Texas is one of the fastest growing states in the country and is responsible for much of the nation’s job growth over the past several years. If anything, Texas should be viewed as a location for future expanded services by the USPS. It seems strange that Texas would have the highest number of potential closures out of any other state. I am the cosponsor of legislation in Congress that will help alleviate the financial crunch the Postal Service presently finds itself in due to bureaucratic barriers. I will urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to find a legislative path that will put the USPS on the road to profitability while protecting the livelihoods of the hard-working people of the Postal Service.” Rep. Green also sent a letter to Garry Gilmore, District Manager of the USPS for the Greater Houston area, on this matter.
07.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Green released a statement on negotiations between the White House and Congressional leadership’s attempts to forge a compromise on balancing the federal budget and increasing the national debt limit: “Focusing on balancing our budget is critical but until we can accomplish this we cannot allow our country to default on our financial obligations. The consequences would be devastating for our economy. Any increase in the debt ceiling should go hand in hand with deficit reduction and I am determined to work with my colleagues to accomplish this, but I have been disappointed in the gamesmanship that has accompanied this debate. I do not want to increase taxes on anyone, but our country is facing very real financial challenges and at a time when tax rates are near historic lows, changes to the tax code should not be taken off the table without serious discussion and analysis. I will not under any circumstances support any solutions that involve massive cuts to Medicare and Social Security. These benefits have been earned by hardworking Americans and payment of these benefits has not increased the federal deficit. Any measures that would gut Medicare in order to continue tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans are backwards and unacceptable. The last time the debt ceiling was increased, the Democratic leadership in Congress insisted on including PAYGO provisions, which required that all new policies reducing revenues or expanding spending be offset over five and ten years. This is the same rule that was in place when we moved from record deficits to record surpluses in the 1990s. I hope that under the new leadership in the House of Representatives, they pursue a similar agenda of fiscal discipline but until then, we need our Administration and Congressional leaders to focus on avoiding a default by the federal government since it would have dire consequences for our nation.”
07.19.2011	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday Congressman Gene Green led a bipartisan letter to Interior Secretary Salazar and Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement Bromwich regarding the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement’s recent announcement that multidisciplinary teams instead of individual inspectors will now conduct the inspections of offshore oil and gas facilities. The delegation highlighted to the Secretary and Director that the NASA Space Shuttle contractor workforce, which is currently being laid off due to the end of the Space Shuttle program, has extensive safety, reliability and quality assurance training and with minimal training could be used for offshore inspections. “As the Space Shuttle chapter of human space flight draws to a close, it is important that the hard working and talented men and women of the space exploration program find employment that utilizes their technical abilities and keen minds,” said Rep. Green. “The Inspection of offshore oil and gas facilities requires these traits and so it makes sense for the Department of Interior to look closely at these individuals for employment in this area.” In addition to the valuable human capital, the delegation added that the physical assets available at the Johnson Space Center could be used to improve and develop technologies that might assist in spill mitigation and prevention. 14 Members of Congress from Texas signed on to Rep. Green’s letter. This included 10 Republicans and 4 other Democrats: Pete Olson (R-22), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-30), Ralph Hall (R-4), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-18), John Culberson (R-7), Al Green (D-9), Kevin Brady (R-8), Charles Gonzalez (D-20), Lamar Smith (R-21), John Carter (R-31), Michael Burgess (R-26), Michael Conaway (R-11), Blake Farenthold (R-27), and Ted Poe (R-2). You can view the letter Secretary Salazar here and the letter to Director Bromwich here.
07.12.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Green voted in favor of H.R. 1309, the Flood Insurance Reform Act. This bill is critical for homeowners in the 29th Congressional District who rely on the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) to protect their hard-earned investments in their homes. The NFIP is the primary source of flood insurance for Americans and approximately 5.6 million homes and businesses nationwide rely on NFIP. Rep. Green stated, “In our district, in Houston and East Harris County, Texas, flood insurance is a top priority. While I support the bill, I am especially supportive of language that I first championed in 2007, that consists of a limited, five year phase-in of flood insurance premiums for low-income homeowners or renters whose primary residence is placed within a flood plain through an updating of flood insurance program maps.” Green’s amendment provides for a limited, five year phase-in of flood insurance premiums for low-income homeowners or renters whose primary residence ends up newly placed within a flood plain after an update of flood insurance program maps. In the language advocated by Rep. Green, homes can be valued at no more than 75% of the median home value for the state in which the property is located. In Texas, that amounts to approximately $143,000 in 2011, which is higher than the average value of homes in the 29th Congressional District. This provision helps new flood plain residents by not having to immediately pay expensive flood insurance which can be a huge financial burden. The Harris County Flood Control District implements flood control measures by maintaining bayous, building retention basins, and implementing drainage features, but even the best flood control can be overrun by a particularly bad storm. The bill reauthorizes the NFIP for five years, which is important to residents who need the stability and peace of mind that this provision allows.
07.12.2011	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday afternoon, Congressman John D. Dingell (D-MI15) and Congressman Gene Green (D-TX29) introduced H.R. 2482, the Public Safety Spectrum and Wireless Innovation Act. H.R. 2482 is supported by a wide array of stakeholders, including the Public Safety Alliance (PSA), the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials-International (APCO), the National Sheriffs Association (NSF), the International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC), the Communications Workers of America (CWA), the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB), the Texas Association of Broadcasters (TAB), and the Michigan Association of Broadcasters (MAB). “I am proud to work with my friend, Gene Green, to introduce legislation that provides for public safety’s critical needs and ensures that free over-the-air broadcasting is not threatened,” said Dingell. “H.R. 2482, if enacted, will accomplish these goals and, in so doing, better protect American lives and consumer choice. I urge all of my colleagues in the House to support this bill and its passage.”“The broad support this bill has attracted in such a short period of time is a testament to its importance and far-reaching appeal,” added Green. “I am proud that John Dingell, my colleague and good friend, asked me to join him in this effort. H.R. 2482 addresses the top priority of the public safety community: to provide additional spectrum and funding so they can do their job more effectively and better protect American lives. This bill also ensures our free over-the-air broadcast system is preserved as we move forward in answering the spectrum challenges our country faces in the years ahead.”H.R. 2482 is companion legislation to Senators John Rockefeller and Kay Bailey Hutchison’s bi-partisan bill, S. 911. While both bills reallocate the D-Block to public safety, H.R. 2482 builds on S. 911 by adding more explicit broadcaster protections with respect to a voluntary incentive auction of spectrum. A summary of the bill’s provisions, as well as letters in support of the bill, can be found at the following links:Public Safety Spectrum and Wireless Innovation Act provisions summaryTexas Association of BroadcastersAssociation of Public-Safety Communications Officials-InternationalInternational Association of Fire ChiefsMichigan Association of BroadcastersNational Association of BroadcastersNational Sheriffs’ AssociationCommunication Workers of AmericaPublic Safety Alliance
07.12.2011	Washington, D.C. – With the reintroduction of the Buffalo Bayou National Heritage Area Act (H.R. 2378), Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) continues his efforts to obtain National Heritage Area recognition for Houston’s own Buffalo Bayou in Harris County, Texas. When passed, H.R. 2378 will designate the 25-mile stretch of the Houston Ship Channel as the first National Heritage Area in Texas. This designation will provide the tourism benefits of federal recognition without placing any restrictions on land or commerce. “There isn’t a more fitting place in Texas to receive the honor of being the first National Heritage Area in the state.” Rep. Green said. “This is the second year I’ve introduced this legislation now since it’s a great opportunity to honor the historical significance of Buffalo Bayou and spur economic growth through tourism.” Buffalo Bayou has a long history of significance for the area and the state. It was initially a point of Texas settlement and then the location for the Battle of San Jacinto, where Texas won its independence from Mexico in 1836. Since then, Buffalo Bayou has sustained the growth of East Harris County and the development of the economic powerhouses of energy and petrochemical industries. In 2002, the Buffalo Bayou National Heritage Study Act was passed after being introduced by Congressman Green and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison. The study, conducted by the National Park Service, found that the proposed Buffalo Bayou National Heritage Area in Texas is eligible for National Heritage Area designation and the heritage area status would enhance as well as promote the national significance of this historic waterway. The legislation has received bipartisan support from fellow Houston Representative Pete Olson (TX-22), who is an original cosponsor on the bill, as well as Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) has introduced the accompanying Senate bill, S. 127.
07.11.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman John D. Dingell (D-MI15) and Congressman Gene Green (D-TX29) introduced H.R. 2482, the Public Safety Spectrum and Wireless Innovation Act. Importantly, this bill will establish the framework for the deployment of a nationwide, interoperable, wireless broadband network for public safety. It will also allocate the D-Block to public safety outright and free of charge. “It is disgraceful that nearly 10 years after 9/11, our country’s first responders have neither sufficient spectrum nor a national interoperable network to use in saving American lives,” said Dingell. “To fix that problem, my good friend, Gene Green, and I have introduced the House companion to Senators Rockefeller and Hutchison’s very thoughtful and bipartisan public safety bill, S. 911. We hope our bill will help speed the Congress’s work on this matter to a successful conclusion before September of this year.” “We have discussed establishing a national interoperable public safety network for nearly a decade now,” said Green. “It has been nearly 10 years since 9/11 and three years since Hurricane Ike struck Houston. The time for talk is over, and the time for action is now. Public safety needs the resources the Public Safety Spectrum and Wireless Innovation Act will give them in order to do their jobs more safely and effectively, all while protecting American lives.” Importantly, the Public Safety Spectrum and Wireless Innovation Act differs from S. 911 with respect to the breadth of authority granted to the Federal Communications Commission to conduct a voluntary incentive auction of broadcaster spectrum. While the Dingell/Green bill seeks to tackle the Nation’s growing need for wireless spectrum, it also makes explicit that the Commission may conduct only one incentive auction, that broadcasters not be coerced into relinquishing spectrum, that broadcasters be fully compensated for costs associated with repacking, and that if broadcasters are repacked they maintain the same capabilities and broadcasting footprint that they had prior to the auction. Similarly, Congressmen Dingell and Green have sought answers from the Federal Communications Commission about the effects of broad incentive auction authority on consumers and broadcasters but have received little assurance that such effects will not be far-reaching and negative. The Public Safety Spectrum and Wireless Innovation Act addresses this by incorporating the protections mentioned above. “Although I recognize the country’s growing need for spectrum, that spectrum should not be forcibly and unfairly taken from broadcasters, which also would negatively impact consumers,” said Dingell. “Our bill ensures that a voluntary incentive auction will be truly voluntary and provide a fair opportunity to grow the Nation’s wireless spectrum inventory.” “It is true that our country’s consumers and wireless companies need more spectrum,” added Green. “That spectrum, however, cannot be unfairly taken from broadcasters, who provide free, over-the-air, local programming to all Americans. It is important to remember the broadcasters play an important role in emergency preparedness by transmitting critical information when cellular networks are down. Broadcasters also promote diversity in the media marketplace through local programming. In short, without the protections we have incorporated into this bill, broadcasters across the country that do not affirmatively decide to exit the marketplace may be forced out without so much as a say in the matter. That’s just plain unfair and also harms the public interest.” In summary, the legislation will: Establish a framework for the deployment of a nationwide, interoperable, wireless broadband network for public safety Allocate 10 megahertz of spectrum, known as the “D-Block,” to public safety; Direct the Federal Communications Commission to establish standards that allow public safety officials, when not using the network, to lease capacity on a secondary, but preemptible, basis to non-public safety entities; Permit the Commission to conduct a one-time voluntary incentive auction of broadcast frequencies. The Commission is prohibited from involuntarily reclaiming frequencies licensed to broadcasters, as well as revoking the licenses of broadcasters or otherwise penalizing them for not taking part in the incentive auction. The Commission’s authority is subject to conditions related to the treatment of low-power television stations, repacking, collocation, and reimbursement of costs for licensees directly or indirectly affected by the incentive auction; and Mandate that surplus revenue from spectrum auctions be deposited in the U.S. Treasury for deficit reduction. The Public Safety Spectrum and Wireless Innovation Act has the support of the Communications Workers of America (CWA), the Public Safety Alliance (PSA), APCO, the National Sheriffs Association (NSA), and the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB). A copy of the bill summary can be found here.
07.08.2011	Washington, D.C. – “Today, Texas coal plants were told they will have to follow extra rules requiring them to make a 47 percent cut in their SO2 emissions by next year based on their 2010 actual emissions. The EPA has assured us that these numbers are achievable and that our emissions have already been trending downward; however, I remain skeptical that that is enough to get us to those numbers. I hope that the EPA is not wrong in their assumption because Texans are the ones that are going to suffer. Regardless, I remain frustrated with the process. Texas was not included in the proposed rule and so could not comment as extensively as needed to plead their case. I hope that the EPA will work with our utilities to address these issues immediately.”
06.30.2011	Houston, TX - Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement following news that the Houston National VA Cemetery is censoring visitors honoring our nation’s heroes:"The Freedom of Speech and Religion is a Constitutional and American value that the Veterans buried at all National Cemeteries fought for and defended. I've attended many Memorial services and funerals at the Houston National Cemetery and my father is buried at a VA National Cemetery. I believe all Faiths should have the freedom to honor our Veterans and it is unacceptable for the government to try to deny that right."
06.23.2011	Washington, D.C. – In response to growing concern about the proper disposal of an increasing number of discarded consumer electronic products, Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) and Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-01) introduced H.R. 2284, The Responsible Electronics Recycling Act of 2011, to prohibit the exportation of some electronics whose improper disposal may create environmental, health, or national security risks. In 2008, the Government Accountability Office reported that many of the developing nations that receive e-waste from the United States do not have the capacity or facilities to safely recycle and dispose of these used electronics. H.R. 2284 would address this growing problem.“E-waste is the fastest growing waste stream in the United States, and it can pose a serious problem in that most e-waste contains toxic chemicals which present environmental and health concerns when not properly handled,” said Rep. Green. “As the Ranking Member on the House Energy and Commerce Environment and Economy Subcommittee, I look forward to working with the majority in the House to pass this bill, which successfully addresses this growing issue. I also want to thank Senators Sheldon Whitehouse [D-RI], Sherrod Brown [D-OH], and Lisa Murkowski [R-AK] for introducing the companion bill in the Senate.”“Each year, millions of tons of electronics equipment are discarded in the U.S. and shipped to developing nations for unsafe salvage and recovery,” said Rep. Thompson. “By carefully regulating the export of e-waste, this bipartisan legislation takes concrete steps to address a growing environmental and health crisis while creating good-paying recycling jobs here in the U.S.”Specifically, H.R. 2284 creates a new section of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act that prohibits the export of “restricted electronic equipment” from the U.S. to developing nations. In defining restricted electronic equipment, the bill lists several toxic materials, the presence of which would cause some covered equipment to be considered restricted waste. The bill calls for the EPA to set de minimis levels for these toxic substances and clarifies that material streams such as plastics, metals, and glass that do not contain hazardous chemicals above the de minimis levels may be exported.Under H.R. 2284, tested and working equipment can still be exported to promote reuse, along with products exported for warranty repair or due to recall. Importing countries must give their consent to accept exempted exports. This legislative approach is consistent with the e-waste policies adopted by most other developed nations via international treaties, such as the Basel Convention and Basel Ban Amendment.“As an industry leader in product lifecycle improvements, HP does not allow the export of e-waste from developed countries to developing countries. We support the work of Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) and Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA) to pass the Responsible Electronics Recycling Act, and we encourage other companies to join the effort and promote responsible recycling,” said Ashley Watson, Vice President and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer for HP.In addition to promoting the responsible recycling of e-waste, The Responsible Electronics Recycling Act of 2011 will also create good-paying jobs in America. While there are domestic recyclers that currently process e-waste, they have a hard time competing with overseas recycling facilities that have few, if any, labor and environmental standards and are thus able to offer cheaper services. By promoting the domestic recycling industry, H.R. 2284 will bring recycling jobs back to the U.S. “This is the most important step our federal government can take to solve the e-waste problem – to close the door on e-waste dumping on developing countries,” said Barbara Kyle, National Coordinator of the Electronics TakeBack Coalition, a national environmental coalition which promotes responsible recycling of e-waste. “It will bring recycling jobs back to the U.S.”Dewayne Burns, CEO of ESCO Processing and Recycling added, “Not only is this bill good for the environment, but it gives a boost to small business recyclers and creates more green jobs. This is what both the industry and our customers want.”H.R. 2284 also creates a research program at the Department of Energy to help assess the recycling and recovery of Rare Earth Metals from electronics. This provision will help ensure the proper collection and recycling of precious and strategic metals.H.R. 2284 has garnered bipartisan support with original Republican cosponsors, Rep. Steven LaTourette (OH-14) and Rep. Lee Terry (NE-2). The legislation is also broadly supported by the recycling industry, including official backing from Hewlett Packard, Dell, Apple, Samsung, Best Buy, the Electronics TakeBack Coalition, and 29 recyclers representing 74 recycling operations in 34 states. For more information about H.R. 2284, click here.
06.17.2011	Washington, D.C. – After 14 months of bipartisan meetings and letters petitioning the Administration to resume safe oil and gas drilling and the timely issuance of permits for drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, Congressman Gene Green commends the Department of the Interior for taking a step towards this goal today by announcing a one-year extension on oil and gas leases for deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. Green responded, “I’m glad the Administration has acted on our demands to restore deepwater drilling and energy production since the energy industry is critical to our local and national economies, our job base, and the future of our energy supply. I will still fight to see that issues like slow permitting are resolved and will continue to work with my colleagues and the Administration to ensure that the safe production of oil and natural gas in the Gulf will be fully restored again as soon as possible.” In May 2010, Congressman Green and Rep. Charles Boustany (R-LA) led a letter with the signatures of 54 colleagues to the Secretary of the Department of the Interior, Kenneth Salazar, which was successful in lifting the shallow water drilling moratorium. Subsequent bipartisan letters urging the President to lift the deepwater drilling moratorium were answered by a lifting of the deepwater drilling ban in October 2010. The deepwater drilling lease extensions will provide lessees additional time to proceed with exploration and development while working to fully comply with new safety, environmental, and spill response requirements developed after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
06.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – Members of the U.S. House of Representatives today introduced the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now (GAIN) Act, to provide incentives for the development of new antibiotics needed to treat new and emerging resistant bugs. The GAIN Act is authored by Congressman Phil Gingrey, M.D. (R-GA) and co-sponsored by Representatives Gene Green (D-TX), Ed Whitfield (R-KY), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Mike Rogers (R-MI), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), and John Shimkus (R-IL). The following statements were issued along with the introduction of the bipartisan legislation:Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-GA): “There are some issues so important they transcend politics-as-usual. Protecting American families from deadly infections is certainly one of them, which is why my colleagues and I are introducing the GAIN Act. With this legislation, we hope to ensure that new drugs will be available to combat the rising numbers of antibiotic-resistant bugs that threaten Americans in hospitals, on the battlefield, in their homes, and in our schools. Health professionals have been sounding the alarm on this problem for over a decade – a solution to this problem is long overdue.” Rep. Gene Green (D-TX): “To date, antibiotics have been overused and over prescribed. This has resulted in mutating new bacteria with fewer and fewer antibiotics to combat infection. The GAIN Act, by providing innovators with additional data exclusivity, seeks to responsibly spur innovation and increase the number of new antibiotics in the FDA approval pipeline. The growing threat of antibiotic resistance is very disconcerting and an issue Congress must take steps to address before it becomes a full blown public health crisis.”Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL): “This legislation is important, as the United States is where nearly every new drug is developed. If we seriously are concerned about resistant drugs, we must encourage the manufacturers and the FDA to move on this need.”Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA): “Every day, patients in our country, and around the world, die because they develop infections resistant to existing antibiotics,” said Rep. Anna Eshoo. “As bacteria evolve, it’s critical that antibiotics stay a step ahead of the problem. This bill encourages companies to develop new antibiotics, an area that’s traditionally been unprofitable for most companies and the reason why they are really lacking in our healthcare system. The GAIN Act is a bipartisan approach to stave off a public health crisis and I look forward to its passage into law.”Rep. Mike Rogers (R-MI): “The GAIN Act will encourage the development of next-generation antibiotic drugs to protect public health and our national security,” said U.S. Rep. Mike Rogers, MI-08. “It will also ensure that we use our nation’s greatest resource – our own scientists and engineers – to come up with innovative solutions to reduce antimicrobial resistance.”
05.25.2011	Congressmen Tim Murphy (PA-18) and Gene Green (TX-29) today announced the reintroduction of the bipartisan Family Health Care Accessibility Act (HR 1629) to address the severe shortage of healthcare providers in underserved communities. Last September, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved the same bill by a vote of 417-1.Today, a workforce shortage is making it difficult for the nearly 1,300 federally-funded Community Health Centers to serve 20 million low-income uninsured and underinsured patients. If physicians want to volunteer at a Community Health Center, they must provide their own medical malpractice insurance which could cost more than $100,000, making it too costly for many doctors to volunteer according to the Government Accountability Office. But if a physician, psychologist, dentist or other healthcare professional volunteers at a free clinic, they are covered under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA), which provides federal liability protections.The Family Health Care Accessibility Act would break down this barrier to volunteerism at CHCs and provide better healthcare access to millions of Americans. Under the Murphy-Green bill, the federal government would extend to volunteer healthcare professionals at CHCs the same protection given to free clinic volunteers, who have been covered by the FTCA since passage of HIPAA in 1996 by the Republican-led Congress.“Community health centers provide a neighborhood medical home that is both high quality and lower cost. They are more than just a doctor's office. They are a place where a child can see a pediatrician and an adult can see an internist,” said Murphy. “Unfortunately, federal barriers prevent doctors from volunteering their services at CHCs. This bill addresses a critical shortage of care and allows doctors to volunteer their time and expertise and removes barriers to care for millions of Americans.”Congressman Green added, “So many qualified individuals want to volunteer their time, but are afraid to do so because they do not have federal tort claims protection and the Government Accountability Office has found that doctors and nurses choose not to volunteer their skills at community health centers because medical liability insurance is too costly for individuals to purchase on their own.We can address the workforce shortage in health centers by passing the Family Health Care Accessibility Act which will clarify that medical malpractice coverage is provided to licensed clinicians who wish to volunteer their time working at a community health center.”Reps. Murphy and Green also thanked Senators John Thune (R-SD) and Bob Casey, Jr. (D-PA) for introducing companion legislation in the Senate. The Family Health Care Accessibility Act has been endorsed by the National Association of Community Health Centers, the American Medical Association, the American Osteopathic Association, and the National Health Care for the Homeless Council. Messrs. Murphy and Green will now work on securing a hearing and passage of HR 1629 by the Energy and Commerce Committee.###
05.18.2011	Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) announces the 9th Annual North Channel Job Fair being held this Friday, May 20. Organized in partnership with Workforce Solutions, a human resources provider for the Houston-Galveston area, the fair will host over 40 employers with full and part-time opportunities they are looking to actively fill. A joint press conference will be held at 10:30am with welcoming remarks from Congressman Green, and remarks from Christopher Diaz, Mayor of Jacinto City, and Larry Green, the President and CEO of Houston Works USA. A wide variety of industries will be represented, including Houston Community College, the Texas Department of Public Safety, and representatives from the Houston Area Plumbing Joint Apprenticeship. In addition to job opportunities, Workforce Solutions will be offering assistance on interviewing skills and resume critiquing. Attendees should bring copies of their resume and dress professionally.
05.02.2011	Houston, TX. - Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement following announcements that Osama Bin Laden was killed.“The attacks of September 11, 2001 were one of the worst assaults on the United States in history. The U.S. military and Administration kept their promise to continue to fight terrorism and brought Osama Bin Laden to justice for his horrible crimes.”
04.12.2011	Washington, D.C . - Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement following Administrator Charlie Bolden’s announcement that the shuttle Atlantis will go to the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, the Endeavour to the California Science Center in Los Angeles, the Discovery to the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in Virginia, and the test shuttle Enterprise to the Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum in New York. “Today’s announcement was a disappointment. This outcome shows that politics played more of a role in the decision than contributions to space flight. I do not want to diminish the importance of Los Angeles and New York to our country. They are undeniably two of our country’s most important hubs of culture, commerce, and learning. However, they are not Space City, USA. It is unbelievable that NASA decided either of these cities is more deserving of a retired Space Shuttle than Houston, Texas. There is no location in this country with both the connection and contributions to space flight and a metropolitan area of over 6 million. It is my belief that under the relevant provisions of the NASA Authorization Act of 2010, Kennedy Space Center in Florida and Johnson Space Center are the most qualified locations to receive a space shuttle. Unfortunately, today’s decision is only the most recent example of NASA headquarters in Washington, ignoring the will of Congress as expressed in the NASA Authorization Act to the detriment of the space community in Houston. This decision should have been based on merit.” ###
04.07.2011	Washington, D.C . - Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement following the Republican defeat of a clean Democratic one-week Continuing Resolution to keep the government funded, and a Motion to Recommit to ensure America’s armed forces are paid. “It is the desire of Republicans and Democrats alike to reduce government spending to a sustainable level. It is the duty of Congress to do it responsibly. It isn’t, and shouldn’t be, impossible to find a common ground that serves the American people. Minority Whip Hoyer offered a clean, one-week continuing resolution to keep the government running during continued negotiations to find that common ground and Republicans defeated it. The Democrats offered a Motion to Recommit that will ensure our men and women in uniform are paid if Republicans force a shutdown. That was also defeated. “As we move closer and closer to a shutdown, it becomes even clearer that Republicans are willing to work against the wishes of the American people to avoid shutting down the government. At a time when the economy is still very fragile, a shutdown could cost the economy $8 billion every week. I hope Republicans do what is best for the country and the American people and avoid a potentially dire outcome as the result of playing political games.” ###
04.06.2011	Washington, D.C . - Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) spoke before the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure on Tuesday. Representatives were invited to present testimony to the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit on policy proposals they have to reform Federal highway, transit, and highway safety programs. Rep. Green testified to the importance of highway funding to the Houston-area in infrastructure repair, development, and improvement. “While I understand the strain the Highway Trust Fund is experiencing, particularly with the increasing vehicle fuel efficiency, it is important that we fund important highway projects throughout the country. We are at a critical time for our nation in terms of transportation funding. We must fix bridges, expand highways, and increase the capacity of our infrastructure,” Rep. Green said. Full testimony below: Mr. Chairman and Ranking Member, thank you for allowing me to testify today. I understand the fiscal challenges we face, but I also believe that we must do more to improve our nation’s transportation system. Transportation funding, particularly for highways and transit, is particularly important for my constituents and the entirety of the Greater Houston area. We have a congestion problem in Houston. We have done a lot to reduce this congestion, but more must be done. We also have the largest port for foreign tonnage and largest petrochemical complex in our country along the banks of the Port of Houston. In the years ahead, we will face a much higher traffic volume due to population growth and the expansion of the Panama Canal, which will bring more truck traffic and economic development to the area. In order for Houston and our Port to continue to be a hub for commerce, we must strengthen our rail and road infrastructure. Both a successful port and a growing local economy rely on well maintained roads and bridges. Communities around our country must improve its transportation infrastructure in order to encourage businesses and economic development. With a population of 6.1 million, the Houston area relies on highway funding. Texas is a donor state; we pay more into the Highway Trust Fund than we receive. As a result, it is important that percentages are maintained so that we do not lose any more of the money that Texas pays into the fund. Ideally, under a new bill, our percentage is increased. Right now is the best time to fund construction projects. With the recent downturn in the economy, construction projects have decreased in costs. The Texas Department of Transportation has told me that they saved as much as 20% on projects funded under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act because costs during the recession went down a great deal. One project I am familiar with, direct connectors between Highway 59 and Beltway 8, on the North Side of Houston was initially estimated to cost $100 million and ended up at a total cost of $36 million. I am concerned about the increased reliance on toll-roads. They certainly have a place in our system, but we cannot allow two different highways systems to develop: one for the wealthy who can afford the daily budget drain of toll roads and the rest of us who cannot. If the toll roads that are constructed are paid for by the tolls, I believe that expands options for drivers and is generally a good thing. However, I do not support any federal funds being spent on these roads. While I understand the strain the Highway Trust Fund is experiencing, particularly with the increasing vehicle fuel efficiency, it is important that we fund important highway projects throughout the country. We are at a critical time for our nation in terms of transportation funding. We must fix bridges, expand highways, and increase the capacity of our infrastructure. Funding for New Starts is important for Houston and I hope will be included in your authorization bill. Houston is currently scheduled to receive its full funding grant agreement for two light rail lines under the New Starts Program this summer. I am happy that both the Federal Transit Administration and the Department of Transportation have seen the significance of these two projects, which will not only stimulate job creation, but also improve our local transportation infrastructure by providing for affordable mass transit and easing congestion on our highways. The Houston area has for too long been left behind on transit and these two lines will serve some of the most transit dependent parts of our community. For that, I am thankful and for the added commerce and economic opportunities these light rail lines will bring these communities. Highway and transit projects are important to our constituents, so they can get to work and school and they are important to our businesses so they can move commerce. Everyone wins when we increase our investments in our transportation infrastructure. ###
03.10.2011	Washington, D.C . - Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) is a lead cosponsor of a House bill that will extend oil and gas leases in the Gulf of Mexico for one year. Following the BP oil spill, the Administration applied a moratorium on new offshore drilling permits. The moratoriums were lifted in May for shallow water and October for deepwater, however issuance has remained extremely slow. “As new offshore drilling permits still slowly trickle from BOEMRE, it’s important that we extend oil and gas leases that haven’t been in production first because of the moratorium and now as they try to receive guidance from the Department of Interior on applying new environmental and safety regulations,” said Rep. Green. “This production is vital to reducing our dependence on foreign oil and is integral to countless livelihoods dependent on the Gulf energy economy.” The Lease Extension and Secure Energy (LEASE) Act of 2011 is being introduced in the Senate by Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) and Mary Landrieu (D-La.). The House version is being introduced by Reps. Bill Flores (R-TX), Charles Boustany (R-La), Gene Green (D-TX), and Dan Boren (D-OK). On March 2, Rep. Green introduced H.Res.140 with Rep. Boustany that recognizes the importance of shallow and deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico to the nation’s economy and security. The resolution also directs the Secretary of the Interior to streamline the approval of drilling permit applications. ###
03.03.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) introduced a resolution recognizing the importance of shallow and deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico to the nation’s economy and security and directing the Secretary of the Interior to streamline the approval of drilling permit applications. Rep. Charles Boustany (LA-07) is the lead Republican cosponsor. After the Macondo spill in April of 2010, a moratorium was applied to new offshore drilling permits. However since the moratoriums were lifted in May for shallow water and October for deepwater, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (BOEMRE) has issued a total of 37 new shallow water permits and 1 permit for deepwater activities that were subject to the moratorium. “As our country struggles to revive itself after a recession, those in the Gulf whose livelihoods depend on our offshore oil and gas production have another obstacle to making ends meet,” Rep. Gene Green said. “Twelve oil rigs have been forced to leave the Gulf as they sat idle over the last few months and more will certainly follow. If Interior fails to act on the pending permits, this negative economic impact will spread beyond the Gulf States and hit the nation as a whole.” The lawmakers’ resolution states that the oil and gas production in the Gulf of Mexico produces approximately 30% of the United States’ oil and 10% of its natural gas. As production is drastically reduced by the inability of companies to receive permits due to a lack of proper guidance on new offshore drilling requirements issued by Interior, the U.S. is forced to rely on foreign oil sources to supply its needs. As the recent developments in the Middle East affect the prices of oil, Americans will continue to see gas prices and the cost of goods rise. “With so much unrest in the Middle East, it is critical that American energy production gets up and running again,” Boustany said. “These delays have severely hurt the hard-working men and women of the Gulf Coast, and continue to jeopardize our national security. This has dragged on long enough. I am pleased that my colleagues from states across the country, including California, Missouri, Michigan, New York and Pennsylvania, realize how critically important American energy production is and have joined us along the Gulf Coast in a bipartisan effort to push the Administration to act now.” In addition to Rep. Green, the bipartisan resolution has 76 cosponsors from 29 states across the country. The resolution is the companion bill to S.Res.77 introduced on February 28, 2011 by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas and Sen. Mary Landrieu of Louisiana. ###
03.03.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Ed Whitfield, (R-KY-01) and Gene Green (D-TX-29), today introduced legislation ensuring that cancer patients across the nation can continue to have access to lifesaving medical treatments. The legislation aims to address a Medicare reimbursement formula that results in some physicians not being adequately paid for the services they have provided. The Whitfield/Green legislation would mirror Medicare’s approach with that of Medicaid so that doctors are similarly reimbursed through Medicare for their services, thus ensuring patients continued access to care. “This is a national problem that is affecting the delivery of care to our most vulnerable patients,” Whitfield said. “Inadequate Medicare reimbursements are having an adverse impact on physicians, related practitioners and their patients in communities throughout Kentucky and across the country. I am pleased to join Congressman Green to re-introduce this bipartisan legislation to ensure that patients continue to have access to quality treatment and care.” “I would like to thank Congressman Whitfield for his leadership on re-introducing this important legislation,” Green said. “A patient’s cancer care should not be in any way put in jeopardy and with this necessary fix, community providers will be able to treat cancer patients covered by Medicare with adequate reimbursement.” The Whitfield/Green legislation would amend the Social Security Act to ensure that doctors receive adequate payments for drugs under Part B of the Medicare Program by excluding prompt pay discounts extended to wholesalers from the manufacturer’s average sales price. These discounts reduce Medicare Part B drug reimbursement rates for providers such as community oncology practices, which in turn jeopardizes the viability of these providers. The legislation introduced today is a step forward in addressing cancer care issues related to problems with Medicare reimbursement. ###
02.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) led a bipartisan letter to Chairman Fred Upton (MI-06) and Ranking Member Henry Waxman (CA-30) of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce to request a hearing on the slow issuance of permits for shallow water and deep water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. Joining him in this letter were Reps. Steve Scalise (LA-01), Charles Gonzalez (TX-20), Bill Cassidy (LA-06), Mike Ross (AR-04), and Pete Olson (TX-22). “The oil and gas industry is the major economic engine in our area, the State of Texas, and across the Gulf south,” said Rep. Green. “Since the moratorium on drilling has been lifted for shallow and deep water drilling after the tragic Macondo spill, new permits have been issued at a slow trickle in shallow water and no new well permits have been issued in deep water for activities that were subject to the moratorium.” Before the Macondo spill in April of 2010, permits were being issued at a rate of approximately 10 per week. Since the moratorium was lifted, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (BOEMRE) has issued a total of 32 new shallow water permits and 0 permits for deep water activities that were subject to the moratorium. “While I agree that nothing is more important than the safety of our workers and the local environment surrounding these wells, oil and gas resources in the Gulf of Mexico account for a major portion of our nation’s domestic production,” Rep. Green continued. “It is possible to safely and responsibly extract oil and gas from the Gulf; our local economy and the families of these workers depend on it. We’ve been safely drilling offshore for years.” Hundreds of jobs have already been lost as rigs that cannot receive permits to drill leave the Gulf and thousands of more jobs are on the line as the remaining rigs anxiously await permits. Complicating the problem is the fact that many companies that have been rejected are claiming that they are not receiving guidance from BOEMRE on what is needed to approve the application. The lawmakers wrote, “the intensifying instability in the Middle East is threatening our supply and we already import most of our oil from countries that are hostile to our interests. We need to safely and responsibly produce our domestic resources offshore in order to reduce this reliance on foreign imports and in turn, increase our economic growth.” Letter text: Dear Chairman Upton and Ranking Member Waxman: As Members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, we write today to request your attention to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement’s (BOEM) pace of issuance of permits for new shallow and deep water wells in the Gulf of Mexico. While the moratoria on shallow water drilling and deep water drilling were lifted on May 28, 2010 and October 12, 2010 respectively, since that time, BOEM has only issued 32 permits for new shallow water wells and has issued no permits for deepwater activities that were subject to the moratorium. This is in comparison to an average of 10 permits issued per week pre-spill. Additionally, we continue to hear from companies that the BOEM is rejecting drilling applications without providing adequate guidance as to what is needed to get the application approved. Hundreds of jobs have already been lost. Seven floating rigs and five jackup rigs have departed the Gulf of Mexico since the Macondo spill. There are currently an additional four rigs that are considering leaving the Gulf of Mexico. With one rig equaling 500 jobs (100 workers on the rig, plus 400 workers supporting drilling operations onshore), thousands of jobs across the Gulf Coast both upstream and downstream remain at risk. This industry in the Gulf of Mexico comprises not only oil and gas companies, but also a network of suppliers and contractors that purchase goods as diverse as forgings, valves, computers, chemicals and helicopters from suppliers in all 50 states. Meanwhile, gas prices continue to rise. Nearly one-third of our domestically produced oil and almost one-quarter of our natural gas comes from the Gulf of Mexico. In addition, as our committee recently highlighted in a Subcommittee on Energy and Power hearing entitled, “The Effects of Middle East Events on U.S. Energy Markets,” the intensifying instability in the Middle East is threatening our supply, and we already import much of our oil from countries that are hostile to our interests. We need to safely and responsibly produce our domestic resources offshore in order to reduce this reliance on foreign imports and in turn, increase our economic growth. The Gulf of Mexico holds the largest and most productive oil resources in the United States, and further delays to safely producing these domestic resources will severely jeopardize our energy security and leave us more dependent on the Middle East for our energy supplies. For these reasons, we respectfully request that our committee exercise its jurisdiction and hold a hearing on this permitting issue either in the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations or the Subcommittee on Energy and Power. We look forward to working with you on this issue, and please do not hesitate to contact us or our staff with any questions on this matter. Thank you for your time and attention. Sincerely, Gene Green Steve Scalise Charles Gonzalez Bill Cassidy Mike Ross Pete Olson ###
02.16.2011	Washington, D.C .- Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) announced his opposition to H.R. 1, Fiscal Year Continuing Appropriations Act for FY2011 because of irresponsible cuts made to community health centers, education, local infrastructure, and public safety programs. “I support a tough review of federal spending, but making drastic cuts to programs that directly benefit our communities and will come at the expense of good jobs, a strong job base, as well as a growing economy are irresponsible,” said Rep. Green. “The Republicans have taken a bulldozer to many important local programs without taking into account the unintended consequences to our communities. This approach will not reduce the deficit. Instead, it will place a burden on our local economy and may set our nation on a course toward a double-dip recession. ” The Republican Continuing Resolution will cut $1.3 billion funding for the community health center program. These cuts may have a direct impact on the sustainability and growth of our local community health centers including El Centro de Corazon, Denver Harbor Clinic, and Pasadena Health Center. Nationally, this reduction in funding will result in 11 million patients over the next year not receiving the care they need, 127 health centers in underserved districts across the country will have to close, and health care system costs will rise as patients who cannot access primary care seek treatment in our already overcrowded emergency rooms. “As a long-time champion of the community health center program, I am appalled the Republicans would dramatically reduce funding to a proven successful program that benefits the most vulnerable populations throughout the U.S.,” Rep. Green said. “Forcing medically underserved individuals to seek care in emergency rooms rather than community health centers will result in skyrocketing costs to the Medicaid program. As the Texas Medicaid program is already facing cuts from the state legislature, this new Congressional Majority was elected to work on a responsible budgetary solution and not to force the states to pick up the tab on the medically underserved by cost shifting.” The Republican spending bill will also cut many important education programs resulting in more than 200,000 children being forced to leave the Head Start program, and thousands of teachers getting fired because of a $1.1 billion funding loss. Students across Texas will lose $444.8 million in Pell Grant funding resulting in an average individual reduction of $679 and over 800 students losing access altogether. “Education is the crucial investment our nation can take to stay competitive internationally and ensure our children’s prosperity,” continued Rep. Green. “Head Start provides comprehensive developmental and educational services to three and four year olds in the greatest financial need. Kicking children out of a successful program that prepares them for elementary school and beyond and firing thousands of teachers is the wrong direction for our country.” ###
02.10.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) called for full funding of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) which provides financial assistance to Americans who cannot afford to cool their homes in the summer or heat in the winter. “LIHEAP is of critical importance to many low-income families in our area and across Texas,” said Rep. Green. “Our district is largely a working class, blue collar area and as we see continued record breaking heat in the summer and cold in the winter, this assistance is critical.” LIHEAP currently serves only 1 in 5 eligible people, making full funding at the authorized level vitally important to homes across the country. The American Gas Association predicted that 3 million eligible Americans will not receive the help they need unless LIHEAP stays at its current level. “As Congress is working to make more fiscally responsible decisions and cut excess spending where possible, cutting any funding from LIHEAP is absolutely out of the question,” continued Rep. Green. “Both the Republican Party and the Administration have proposed cuts to this crucial program. I remain committed to LIHEAP and ensuring that people don’t have to make the choice between feeding their family and heating or cooling their home.” The President’s proposed budget for 2012 will be released soon and it is expected to cut $3 billion from the authorized level of $5.1 billion, reducing funding by more than 50%. ###
02.08.2011	Washington, D.C .- Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) applauded the United States International Trade Commission (USITC)’s ruling in favor of domestic manufacturing by finding Chinese-imported drill pipe and drill collars to be unfairly subsidized and dumped onto the American market. Rep. Green testified last month in front of the USITC in support of Houston-area drill pipe and collar manufacturers. “I am happy to see the USITC stand with American manufacturers. Drill pipe and drill collars are crucial to the energy sector in the Gulf Region,” said Rep. Green. “I believe this ruling to be another step in the resurgence of American manufacturing.” VAM Drilling, one of the petitioning manufacturers in the case, located in Rep. Green’s Congressional District, has been forced to layoff approximately two-thirds of their employees in recent years due to underpriced Chinese drill pipe and collar flooding the market. VAM Drilling was in danger of laying off 200 more employees if the USITC failed to rule in favor of domestic manufacturers. Within 90 days, U.S. Customs and Border Protection will begin enacting antidumping and countervailing duties on certain Chinese exporters at margins ranging between 0.00 and 69.32 percent at the direction of the Department of Commerce. ###
01.25.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement after President Obama delivered the State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress: “The President has called on America to work together in a new era where the world and the rules that run it have changed. While there are many debates and discussions that will follow, there must be a singular focus: creating jobs now. “I absolutely agree with the President in that we ‘measure progress by the success of our people.’ Right now, people are still hurting. There are those across the country and in our area that are still suffering from a down economy. Last year, Democrats in Congress began work on a ‘Make it in America’ strategy to rebuild the middle class by strengthening the manufacturing sector. It is absolutely essential that we continue to promote manufacturing jobs at home to ensure our competitiveness abroad. The President says we must invest in education and job training to win the future, and I agree. But at the present, what America needs most are jobs now. We must recapture the world market that we’ve lost. “The President also referenced increased research and investments in clean energy to reduce our dependence on oil. While a commitment to reduce our dependence on foreign oil is essential to our nation’s security, we must safely return oil and gas production in the Gulf of Mexico to pre-oil spill levels. This production is essential to local jobs, the local economy, and the nation. “I look forward to working with my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, in the House and the Senate to create jobs, grow the economy, and accomplish the goals the President has set that will move our country forward.” ###
01.21.2011	Washington, D.C. – In a show of bipartisanship during President Obama’s State of the Union address scheduled for January 25, Democratic Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) and Republican Rep. Phil Gingrey (GA-11) plan to sit together. “Phil and I have worked together on the Committee on Energy and Commerce for a number of years,” said Rep. Green. “Hopefully we can set an example of civility and friendship even in the face of political disagreements. It’s a small display, but one I think the country needs to see.” It is customary for Members of Congress to sit on opposite sides of the aisle while the President addresses a joint session of Congress. Sen. Mark Udall (D-Colo.) proposed the idea that Democrats and Republicans intermingle and demonstrate the bipartisanship that exists in both houses of Congress. The idea has quickly gained support throughout the House and Senate and in Congressional leadership. ###
01.19.2011	Washington, D.C. – Earlier today, Democrats on the powerful Committee on Energy and Commerce met in an organizational meeting to elect colleagues to subcommittee ranking member positions. Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) was chosen to take the ranking member position on the Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy. “I’d like to thank my colleagues for giving me the opportunity to work with my friend and colleague, Chairman John Shimkus,” Rep. Green said. “Chairman Shimkus and I already have a great working relationship and I’m eager to get to work on issues affecting our country in the 112th Congress.” The Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy has jurisdiction over soil and water contamination, regulation of solid, hazardous, and nuclear wastes, industrial plant security, drinking water, and toxic substances. Committee recommendations for ranking members will now be sent to the Steering and Policy Committee and then approved by the full Democratic Caucus. “As the Representative for the 29th Congressional District of Texas, our district includes oil and gas refineries and chemical plants,” Rep. Green continued. “I look forward to working on these important issues that directly affect our district.” Rep. Green introduced H.R. 6252, the Responsible Electronics Recycling Act in the 111th Congress that deals directly with e-waste disposal and his district includes a superfund site, the San Jacinto Waste Pits. Rep. Green was first elected to Congress in 1992 and has been a longtime champion of labor, energy, health, and education issues. ###
01.19.2011	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) highlighted a report that details the impact of the Republicans’ Patients’ Rights Repeal Act on the hundreds of thousands of Americans who live in the 29th Congressional District of Texas. “The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) scored the cost to Americans that the Republicans’ proposal will have and the national deficit will ultimately increase by over $1 trillion,” Rep. Green said. “For a party that promised not to add to the deficit and increase government transparency, it’s simply shocking that their first major piece of legislation in the 112th Congress would add such an astounding amount without one committee hearing on the legislation.” In a letter to Speaker Boehner dated January 6, 2011, the nonpartisan CBO stated that repeal of the health care reform law would add approximately $230 billion to the deficit in the first ten years and over $1.2 trillion in the second ten years. As a result of repeal, 32 million Americans will lose health coverage, Americans purchasing their own insurance coverage will see their costs rise, and patient protections will be erased. “America simply can’t afford to repeal such an important patient protection law,” Rep. Green continued. “People across the country and in our area have already seen improvements in their own protections and those will be lost. As health reform is slowly implemented, there is plenty of time to use the legislative process to fix what needs to be fixed instead of putting Americans at risk by repealing patient protections.” The report on TX-29 finds that the Patients’ Rights Repeal Act would have significant consequences in the district by: · Allowing insurance companies to deny coverage to at least 102,000 individuals, including at least 12,000 children, with pre-existing conditions. These individuals include those who are breast cancer survivors and prostate cancer survivors; those living with heart disease; and those with such conditions as asthma and high blood pressure. · Taking away the 50% discount on brand-name Rx drugs from 4,400 seniors who hit the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole;’ and denying free preventive care services under Medicare to 56,000 seniors.· Eliminating health care tax credits available for up to 14,600 small businesses and 177,000 families.· Increasing the number of people without health insurance by 217,000 individuals. · Increasing the cost to hospitals of providing uncompensated care by $15 million annually. · Increasing the costs of coverage for up to 4,300 early retirees. “Instead of bringing such bills as the Patients’ Rights Repeal Act to the Floor, I hope soon that Republicans will be reaching out to Democrats to develop bipartisan solutions that will create jobs, strengthen the middle class, and bring down our long-term deficit,” stated Rep. Green. Groups opposing repeal include the AARP, the Small Business Majority, the American Heart Association, and the National Farmers Union. The report can be found at https://docs.house.gov/energycommerce/health_2011/TX29.Green.pdf ###
01.05.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) testified in support of the oil and gas industry of the Houston-area and against an influx of unfairly traded drill pipe and drill collars from China. The United States International Trade Commission (USITC) held a hearing, “Drill Pipe and Drill Collars from China,” to examine the consequences of foreign equipment on the domestic oil and gas economy and production. “The Department of Commerce found that the entire Chinese drill pipe industry receives double digit subsidies from the government of China,” Rep. Green said in his statement. “I am deeply concerned that at the present depressed rates of capacity utilization, many of these producers, like VAM drilling, are at a tipping point.” VAM Drilling is located in Rep. Green’s Congressional District, and has invested millions of dollars to expand. However, they have been forced to layoff approximately two-thirds of their employees. Two hundred more jobs are at risk if VAM Drilling must continue to compete with underpriced drill pipes and collars. “I am gravely concerned that we might add to our dependence on foreign oil, a dependence on imported products that we need, to drill for oil and gas in this country,” Rep. Green continued. “This is an unacceptable risk to our long term energy and national security.” In recent years the volume of U.S. imports of seamless pipe from China more than doubled, rising from 158,000 net tons in 2006 to 366,000 net tons in 2008. In February 2010, the USITC determined there is a reasonable indication present that the U.S. industry is threatened by these Chinese imports. Rep. Green’s full statement below: Good morning Chairman Okun and members of the Commission. My name is Gene Green and I represent the 29th Congressional district of Texas. One of the petitioners in this case, VAM Drilling is located in my district, and virtually all the U.S. producers of finished drill pipe and drill collars are located in the Houston area. Since VAM Drilling purchased the OMSCO Company in 2005, they have put tens of millions of dollars in new investments into new equipment to expand capacity, improve quality, and increase productivity. However, in spite of these investments, and as a result of declining demand and increased imports from China, the company has been forced to take periodic shutdowns and has laid-off about two-thirds of their employees. It is clear that massive Chinese overcapacity to produce drill pipe and drill collars will result in a permanent shutdown of VAM Drilling’s plant. Forty percent of the jobs in this industry have already been lost and that is just the direct job losses, not including the jobs generated in the community to support these mills with services, transportation, as well as local retail establishments. These are good, middle class jobs. Jobs you can take pride in. Jobs that Houston, and other communities around the country, cannot afford to lose. Over two hundred permanent jobs are at risk of being lost in my district if VAM Drilling cannot compete with underpriced Chinese drill pipes and collars. I have always been supportive of the energy sector and the domestic oil and gas industry. I serve on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and have consistently fought for legislation that would increase oil and gas production in the United States, and lessen our dependence on imported foreign oil, often imported from countries that are less-than-friendly to the United States. If I thought for one minute that imposing duties in this case would create shortages for our oil and gas industry I would not be here. However, reports from this very commission, and the information provided to me by industry members, show that this industry is operating at only a one-third capacity utilization rate. The Department of Commerce found that the entire Chinese drill pipe industry receives double digit subsidies from the government of China and that is not even including the currency manipulation which provides additional subsidies on these exports. They also found that most of the imports from China were sold at dumped prices. I am deeply concerned that at the present depressed rates of capacity utilization, many of these producers, like VAM Drilling, are at a tipping point. ###
01.05.2011	At Rep. Green's annual Paying for College Workshop, North Shore Senior High School student Cody Espinoza won a $500 scholarship funded by Sallie Mae. The High School Senior plans to attend the University of Houston.
12.13.2010	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) commended the two grants from the Department of Transportation (DOT) to Houston METRO announced today. Each grant is in the amount of $25 million for the North and Southeast Light Rail Corridor projects. “I’m happy that DOT has seen the significance of these two projects,” said Rep. Green. “These projects will not only stimulate job creation, but they will improve our local transportation infrastructure by providing for affordable mass transit and easing congestion on our highways.” The North Corridor is a 5.2-mile, double-track line that extends from the existing University of Houston-Downtown Station in the Houston Central Business District to the Northline Mall Transit Center. The light rail line will operate in an exclusive guideway with limited mixed traffic operations. The Southeast Corridor is a 6.2-mile light rail line from the Houston Central Business District to Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd/Griggs Road. The project includes the construction of 13 stations and a maintenance facility. Both corridor lines will increase mobility, improve air quality, promote economic development, and create jobs in the Houston-area. ###
12.01.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today, Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Julius Genachowski announced that a proposal for network neutrality would be on the agenda for the December meeting. Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement: “While we are still evaluating the specifics of the proposal outlined in today’s announcement from Chairman Genachowski, I am pleased to see the Chairman has engaged in a process toward forging consensus among industry participants and concerned consumer groups. I certainly welcome any departure from the ‘third way’ proposal circulated earlier this year. Over 70 of my Democratic colleagues joined me in a letter to Chairman Genachowski expressing significant concerns with the ‘third way’ approach and we are pleased that the Chairman listened to our concerns. “That said, I remain convinced that it is Congress’ job to first definitively determine broadband Internet regulations – something we have yet to accomplish. Chairman Waxman made an attempt in September to initiate the process, but was unsuccessful. While many Internet service providers and technology companies find that the new approach by the FCC provides much-needed certainty, the only way to bring the necessary long-term certainty is for Congress to act. “I hope today’s proposal will reinvigorate the debate on Capitol Hill and I look forward to working with my colleagues to craft a bill that will provide regulatory certainty on the Internet.” ###
12.01.2010	Washington, D.C. – In response to Department of Interior Secretary Salazar’s announcement earlier today regarding an updated oil and gas leasing strategy for the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS), Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement: “Secretary Salazar’s announcement - that the Eastern Gulf of Mexico remains under a moratorium and plans announced in March to develop the Mid and South Atlantic are no longer under consideration - will no doubt have an impact on our nation’s desire for energy independence and I deeply regret the loss of this potential oil and gas production. However, our immediate concern is, and should continue to be, getting the Western Gulf of Mexico back to oil and gas production at pre-oil spill levels. In recent talks with BOEMRE Director Michael Bromwich, I am encouraged by his willingness to work on specific problems with offshore drilling permit applications. Nonetheless, there is a genuine need to get clarification to industry on new regulations to allow for additional permit applications, so we can then have more permits issued. Gulf energy production is vital to our nation’s energy security and independence and it is essential to the economic vitality of states along the Gulf. Getting these permits issued means getting people in my district back to work.” ###
11.29.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) and Rep. Charles Boustany (R-LA) today met with Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (BOEMRE) Director Michael Bromwich to discuss ongoing issues with the BOEMRE issuing new well permits in the Gulf of Mexico. The Administration has officially lifted a moratorium on issuing new offshore drilling permits; however a de facto moratorium remains. In the 7 months since the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster, a total of 18 shallow water permits and 1 deepwater drilling permit have been issued. Prior to the spill, permits were issued at a rate of 10-15 a week. “Domestic energy production is vital to countless livelihoods in my district, across the State of Texas, and throughout states along the Gulf of Mexico,” said Rep. Green. “Thousands of families depend on this industry and continue to suffer from the effects of an economic recession and now a continuing de facto moratorium. It is the duty and responsibility of BOEMRE to honor the end of the Administration’s moratorium and see that these permits are issued in a timely manner.” Reps. Green and Boustany previously led a bipartisan letter to Department of Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar with 54 of their colleagues when the Administration originally applied a moratorium to offshore drilling permits. The letter expressed support for the investigation of the Macondo well, while also voicing concern over the effects of a unilateral drilling moratorium on offshore oil and gas development. The Congressmen also led a letter with 37 colleagues to Secretary Salazar addressing the slow rate of shallow water well permits after the formal lifting of the moratorium. “This administration continues to stall on this issue,” Rep. Boustany said. “American energy producers remain committed to safety, but have still not received clear guidelines on the new regulations. Additionally, regional and local administration officials and inspectors are still unable to get answers from Secretary Salazar or Director Bromwich on these rules. This lack of communication continues to adversely affect energy production along the Gulf Coast, and keeps hard working men and women from resuming their jobs.” Also invited to the meeting were members of the Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas, and Oklahoma delegations. The Members were encouraged to share their own concerns with Director Bromwich on the slow pace of offshore drilling permitting. "The moratorium may be over, but energy workers are still waiting to get back on the job," said Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX). "How many families or businesses can survive for several months with no income coming in? If this administration can fast track wind permits, they can do the same for Gulf coast energy industry that's been forced to a standstill by their policies." In June, Reps. Brady and Green led a letter with 22 colleagues to Secretary Salazar outlining an interim solution in place of a permit moratorium. It proposed allowing low-risk development and appraisal wells to be produced while the Department of Interior continued its assessment on deepwater exploratory wells. Members of Congress present for the meeting were Reps. Gene Green, Charles Boustany, Kevin Brady, Steve Scalise, Dan Boren, Charlie Gonzalez, Rodney Alexander, Bill Cassidy, Pete Olson, Sheila Jackson Lee, Al Green, and Harry Teague. ###
09.30.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) and Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-01) yesterday introduced H.R. 6252, The Responsible Electronics Recycling Act to provide the United States with the regulatory framework to monitor the export of used electronics. Although e-waste (consumer electronics such as TVs, cell phones and computers) is the fastest growing waste stream in the country, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) currently has no framework to monitor the removal, disposal, and export to developing nations. Over 3 million tons of e-waste was generated by the United States in 2007. “As technology advances at a rapid pace, explosive sales patterns emerge in consumer consumption and old electronics are discarded as a result,” Rep. Green stated. “Many of these electronics are sent to developing nations for reuse or recycling.” E-waste can contain toxic chemicals which present environmental and health concerns when not properly handled. In 2008, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) reported that many of the developing nations who receive e-waste from the United States do not have the capacity or facilities to safely recycle and dispose of these used electronics. “Every year, we scrap 400 million units of electronics in the U.S.,” said Rep. Thompson. “Each piece of e-waste can be incredibly harmful to our environment. Congressional action to stop the free flow of these dangerous materials is long overdue and we must act now before it is too late.” The Responsible Electronics Recycling Act will create a new section of 1976’s Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RICRA) to prohibit the export of restricted e-waste to developing nations. While tested and working equipment can still be exported to promote reuse, other consumer electronic equipment, parts, and material derived from them that contain toxic chemicals could not be exported to developing nations. “Dell bans the export of e-waste to developing countries as part of our global disposition policy, and the ever-growing e-waste challenge makes it necessary for all recyclers to do the same,” said Mark Newton, director of sustainable business at Dell. “The introduction of this bill is a great first step in giving consumers confidence that the systems they drop off for recycling will be handled responsibly.” Non-hazardous or tested and working electronic products or parts are not restricted. Other exemptions from the restrictions are: - products under warranty being returned to the manufacturing facility that made them; - products or parts being recalled; and - crushed cathode ray tube (CRT) glass cullet that is cleaned and fully prepared as feedstock into CRT glass manufacturing facilities “The marketplace has rejected the practice of dumping e-waste on developing countries, but exporting instead of recycling is still common in our industry,” said Robert Houghton, President of Redemtech, Inc., an Ohio based asset recovery company and certified e-Stewards serving Global 1000 companies in North America and Europe. “Such so-called recyclers are virtually defrauding customers who count on them for responsible recycling, at the same time they are helping to poison workers in recycling sweat shops overseas. By ending the toxic trade in e-waste, this bill does the right thing, and will create thousands more jobs in recycling and refurbishment here in the U.S.” This legislation will prevent the export of hazardous waste to developing nations and prevent detrimental impact to the environment and public health. It will also create jobs in America to process these products in a safe manner. The regulatory framework is consistent with policies most other developed nations have adopted through international treaties. “This e-waste export bill will stem the tide of the toxic techno-trash sent from the U.S. to developing countries around the world,” said Barbara Kyle, National Coordinator of the Electronics TakeBack Coalition, a national environmental coalition which promotes responsible recycling of e-waste. “Right now, consumers can’t tell whether their local recycler will actually recycle their old products or dump them on the developing countries - and this bill will solve that problem, as well as create new recycling jobs here in the U.S.” The legislation has received support from Dell, Apple, Samsung, The Electronics TakeBack Coalition, and The Natural Resources Defense Council. ###
09.23.2010	Washington, D.C. – The Department of Education today announced the 62 recipients of the Teacher Incentive Fund (TIF) competitive grant. Among the winning applicants nation-wide, Houston Independent School District (HISD) will receive a $31,570,781 grant to be dispersed over 5 years. “HISD has a distinguished reputation for their commitment and service to the youth of our area,” said Rep. Gene Green (TX-29). “This grant will only serve to continue that commitment and service by hiring and retaining the finest teachers.” The purpose of the TIF grant is to strengthen the education profession by rewarding excellence and attracting teachers and principals to high-need areas. The winning urban and rural applicants are from school districts, non-profits, and states all over the country. They were selected by a group of expert and independent reviewers based on their comprehensive plans to develop, reward, and support effective teachers and principals. They were required to demonstrate a high-level of local support and involvement as well as a fiscal sustainability plan after the 5 year grant period. “An effective teacher is just as important in providing a solid education as the curriculum they teach,” continued Rep. Green. “This grant is a great honor for HISD and will be a great advantage for the youth of our area.” ###
09.23.2010	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) voted to spur economic growth and create 500,000 new jobs by encouraging the development of American small businesses. H.R. 5297, the Small Business Lending Fund Act, increases much-needed lending to millions of small businesses, and offers 8 new tax incentives to companies, so that they may expand, hire, and fuel our economy. It also keeps jobs in America by closing tax loopholes that reward corporations that ship jobs overseas. “Small businesses are the foundation of our economy and are an integral part of creating jobs and rebuilding the economy for the future,” said Rep. Green. “We owe it to them to ensure that they have a business environment in this country that helps them grow and flourish. Increased access to capital and new tax cuts will not only keep jobs in America, it will allow small businesses to make it in America.” The Small Business Jobs Act will help America’s 27 million small businesses create new jobs and grow with $12 billion in tax cuts. It will make Main Street businesses more competitive with big corporations by leveraging up to $300 billion in private sector lending for small businesses, along with state grants for small business lending. With tax cuts and access to more capital, our nation’s small businesses will be able to put more Americans back to work. The Small Business Lending Fund Act takes another step to end job outsourcing by ending tax incentives for companies that ship jobs overseas. Finally, this bill is fully paid for and will not add to the deficit. “Today we passed a bill that moves the small businesses of our area forward. I know that the businesses and people of our area are still hurting,” continued Rep. Green. “This bill will assist them in main street job creation, despite almost unanimous Republican opposition.” In fact, in the same day that Congressional Republicans stood at a small business in Virginia to introduce their new agenda that calls for tax breaks for America’s small businesses, they came back to Washington to vote against tax breaks for small businesses. This bring a Republican ‘no’ vote to 15 of the 16 tax breaks for small businesses that this Congress has enacted. ###
09.22.2010	Washington, DC – In a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lisa Jackson sent August 10, Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) requested the immediate attention of the EPA through the installation of additional fencing and warning signs around the San Jacinto Waste Pits Site. Several constituents expressed concerns with inadequate notice to local fisherman of the toxic water. “While fishing in local waters is widespread, people may not realize how toxic the San Jacinto Waste Pits Site is and the danger they are putting themselves in by eating what they catch from this water,” said Rep. Green. The 20-acre site is on the western bank of the San Jacinto River. Originally constructed as a disposal for pulp and paper mills, the water has high levels of dioxin concentrations. Because of tidal forces, the dioxin concentrations have moved beyond the current placement of security fences and signs. Rep. Green urged Administrator Jackson to mitigate a potential public health problem by additional protective measures to avoid fishing in this hazardous water. Regional Administrator Al Armendariz of EPA Region 6 responded with preliminary approval to International Paper Company and McGinnes Industrial Maintenance Corporation for additional fencing and warning signs at the site. The Regional Administrator also gave a commitment to continue working with the community and responsible parties to address these concerns moving forward. “We will continue to work with the EPA to inform the public about the dangers of fishing in this water and prevent the consumption of contaminated fish,” continued Rep. Green. Letter sent to Administrator Jackson from Rep. Green on August 10, 2010: Dear Administrator Jackson: I am writing to you with regard to the San Jacinto Waste Pits Site, which is located within my congressional district. Recently, there have been concerns raised by several of our constituents about inadequate fencing and signs for the site while fishing in the area is prevalent. I request that you consider implementing more fencing and signs around the area to help prevent people from fishing in these dangerously toxic waters. The 20 acre San Jacinto Waste Pits Site is located on the western bank of the San Jacinto River in Harris County. Originally constructed in the 1960’s for disposal of pulp and paper waste mills, the site is now inactive with roughly half of the surface area, including the abandoned waste disposal ponds, submerged below the river’s surface. High levels of dioxin concentrations have been detected in sediment samples collected from the site’s disposal pond areas, and also in the San Jacinto River both upstream and downstream from the site. On March 19, 2008, the Site was placed on the National Priorities List, the EPA’s list of uncontrolled or abandoned hazardous waste sites identified for long term cleanup under the Federal Superfund program. Among the measures taken by the EPA in addressing the site are public access restrictions. These restrictions include the placement of security fences and signs to prevent unauthorized persons from accessing the entire area containing the waste impounds. Due to tidal forces, however, the dioxin concentrations have moved beyond the site, and fishermen regularly cast their lines just beyond the fences currently in place believing that the no-fishing signs relate only to the side of the fence with the original contamination. It is important that we address the fact that the dioxin concentrations have moved beyond the site before the situation becomes a significant public health problem. I respectfully urge you to consider the implementation of additional fencing and signs in the area beyond the current barrier of the site to prevent the continued practice of fishing in these contaminated waters. Such measures will mitigate the harmful effects of the site while we continue to work together in the clean-up process. Thank you for your consideration as always, and I look forward to continuing to working with you and your office on cleaning up the site. Sincerely, Gene GreenMember of Congress Response from Regional Administrator Al Armendariz on September 14, 2010: Dear Congressman Green: Thank you for your letter dated August 10, 2010, to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lisa P. Jackson requesting additional fencing and signs around the San Jacinto Waste Pits site to prevent people from fishing in the area. Your letter was forwarded to me for response because Texas is within the jurisdiction of EPA Region 6. EPA shares the community’s concerns about area fishing activity and, specifically, the consumption of contaminated fish. Although it would be impractical to fence off the entire area under the fish consumption advisory, EPA recently gave preliminary approval to International Paper Company and McGinnes Industrial Maintenance Corporation to place additional fencing and warning signs at the site, after appropriate coordination with relevant waterway agencies (i.e., the Coast Guard, Port of Houston Authority, etc.). The additional signage and fencing should help increase public understanding of the hazards at the site and further limit access. EPA will continue engaging the community and working with the responsible parties, the State, Harris County, the Houston-Galveston Area Council, and other involved parties to address community concerns about the site. I hope this is helpful in addressing your concerns, and I look forward to your office’s continued participation in our community involvement efforts. Sincerely yours, Al Armendariz Regional Administrator ###
09.15.2010	Washington, DC –Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) voted to boost the American manufacturing industry and create jobs by requiring the Congress and Department of Homeland Security to purchase products that are made in America. The two bills – H.R. 2039, the Congressional Made in America Promise Act and H.R. 3116, the Berry Amendment Extension Act – are part of the Democratic “Make it in America” national manufacturing strategy to create the high-skill, high-wage jobs of the future and promoting American competitiveness, innovation, and exports. “Democrats are working to make sure we see the words Made in America more often. I believe we can lead the world in manufacturing if we make the choices now to rebuild our broken manufacturing industry and put people back to work making things again,” said Rep. Green. “At the same time, we have fought to close tax loopholes that actually encourage corporations to ship American jobs overseas.” The Congressional Made in America Promise Act Requires Congress to buy goods and services made by American workers for the first time since “Buy American” rules were instituted for federal agencies under President Roosevelt in 1933, including tighter Buy American requirements for items with the seal of Congress, the House, or Senate. The Berry Amendment Extension Act bars the Department of Homeland Security from buying clothing, tents and other products that are not “grown, reprocessed, reused or produced” in America. For the last 60 years, the Berry Amendment has served our nation well requiring the Defense Department and the Coast Guard to buy a range of domestically produced or grown items with 100% U.S. content, and today we are voting to cover the DHS. “These bills will help get our factories humming again and put Americans back to work—and send a strong signal to American businesses that we’re on their side,” said Rep. Green. “We will keep working to put manufacturing, middle class Americans, and small businesses first.” Our “Make it in America” strategy also includes: o Closing tax loopholes that encourage corporations to outsource U.S. jobs overseas. o Providing hometown tax credits to help small businesses hire new employees and sell their products and innovation overseas. o Boosting incentives to create American clean energy jobs like making state-of-the-art wind turbines and solar panels–paid for by ending corporate welfare to Big Oil. o Strengthening rules that U.S. and its contractors buy products made in America, especially to build transportation, energy, and communications infrastructure. o Demanding that China and other countries honor fair trade principles or lose American business. o Giving incentives to hire and re-train America’s returning veterans for new clean energy jobs. o Strengthening partnerships with businesses to retrain America’s workers for jobs of the future. ###
08.31.2010	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) and Rep. Charles Boustany (R-LA) have again written to Department of the Interior Secretary Salazar regarding the issuance of new permits for shallow water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. The letter, co-signed by 37 Democrats and Republicans from across the country, is the second letter that Rep. Green and Rep. Boustany have sent to Secretary Salazar reminding him of the significance of the Gulf Coast economy and urging the immediate issuance of new permits. “Before the Deepwater Horizon disaster, new shallow water drilling permits were being issued at the rate of 10-15 per week,” Rep. Green stated. “Since the shallow water moratorium was lifted on May 28, a total of 4 new permits have been issued.” In a letter to Secretary Salazar sent May 20, Reps. Green and Boustany with 54 of their colleagues warned of the potential impact of losing shallow water oil and natural gas production. Since then, 14 rigs have been idled in the Gulf which represents 30% of the shallow water fleet. If the pace of new permits does not accelerate by the end of September, over 70% of the shallow water rigs will be inactive. “There are thousands of jobs directly connected to shallow water drilling,” Rep. Green continued. “At a time when the economy is still coming back from the worst recession in recent memory, we just can’t afford to lose more jobs. My colleagues and I continue to share concern over this de facto moratorium and the deepwater moratorium as domestic energy production is not only vital to energy independence, but to the Gulf Coast economy.” The lawmakers wrote: The Honorable Kenneth L. SalazarSecretaryU.S. Department of the Interior1849 C Street, NWWashington, DC 20240 Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing to request your urgent attention to the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement’s (BOEM) pace of issuance of permits for new shallow water wells in the Gulf of Mexico. While the moratorium on shallow water drilling was lifted on May 28, 2010, since that time, BOEM has only issued 4 permits for new shallow water wells. Additionally, we continue to hear from companies that the BOEM has not provided adequate guidance and information for the shallow water drilling industry to comply with new drilling application requirements imposed by NTL-06. As a result of this pace of issuance, 14 jackup rigs have now been idled in the Gulf of Mexico, representing 30% of the shallow water fleet. Should this situation continue, we are advised that by August 30th, another 11 shallow water rigs will be taken out of service, meaning that over half of the shallow water rigs will be idle. And, even worse, absent immediate action by your Department, by the end of September, this number will grow to 32 idled rigs, or 70% of the shallow water fleet. Hundreds of jobs have already been lost. If this situation is not addressed soon, we estimate that approximately 40,000 jobs across the Gulf South are at risk. We believe the BOEM must take immediate and effective action to provide clear guidance to its employees and the shallow water drilling industry concerning NTL-06 requirements, and it must further expedite the review and appropriate approval of applications for shallow water drilling permits in the Gulf of Mexico. Until the BOEM does so, offshore oil and gas exploration support companies throughout the Gulf Coast engaged in shallow water drilling activities will continue to be severely affected by the continuing de facto moratorium on the issuance of new offshore shallow water drilling permits. We appreciate your time and attention to this most urgent and dire situation and we look forward to working with you to resolve these issues. Sincerely, Gene Green Charles W. Boustany, Jr.Charlie Melancon Jo BonnerSolomon Ortiz Anh “Joseph” CaoCharlie Gonzalez Kevin BradyChet Edwards Steve ScaliseMike Ross Bill CassidyCiro Rodriguez Ron PaulRuben Hinojosa Rodney AlexanderHarry Teague Mike RogersDan Boren Spencer BachusPete Olson Ted PoeParker Griffith Doc HastingsHoward Coble John CulbersonRalph Hall John FlemingMichael McCaul Gregg HarperAl Green Stephanie Herseth SandlinHenry Cuellar Sam JohnsonMac Thornberry Michael ConawayKay Granger John ShimkusJeb Hensarling ###
08.26.2010	Houston, TX – Highlighting the new report release by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) also emphasized the Houston-area projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). The CBO report, Estimated Impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act on Employment and Economic Output from April 2010 Through June 2010, stated that ARRA has boosted America’s real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by up to 4.5% in the second quarter of 2010 and increased the number of American jobs by as many as 3.3 million. “This report confirms other independent reports that the stimulus is in fact working and had Congress not passed the recovery effort, America and Americans would be in a far worse economic situation,” Rep. Green said. The CBO estimates that as a result of ARRA, in the second quarter of 2010 the real GDP was raised between 1.7-4.5%, the unemployment rate was lowered by between 0.7-1.8 percentage points, and the number of people employed was increased by between 1.4 million and 3.3 million. “In our area alone, thousands of jobs have been created or saved by the stimulus and it is funding projects throughout our neighborhoods that not only put people to work, but improve the area,” Rep. Green continued. “We are still in a fragile economy, but it will continue to improve as we allow the stimulus to take effect and as Congress continues to take action.” Houston-area stimulus funded projects include $200 million to CenterPoint Energy for Smart Grid development, $98.9 million to the Port of Houston Authority for dredging and other projects, $30 million to UT Health Science Center-Houston for digitized medical records, $13 million to the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) for the Spur 330 flyover in Baytown, $56 million for the Beltway 8 flyover at Highway 29, funding for area Head Start programs and community health centers, among other projects. The State of Texas has received approximately $12 billion in stimulus funds for various projects across the state. ###
08.06.2010	Houston, TX – In another effort at spreading misinformation, Texas Governor Rick Perry has issued a statement that falsely states how federal funding will affect Texas. Governor Perry has charged the Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation with playing politics and attaching language to legislation that will kill over $800 million in federal funding for Texas education. In fact, Governor Perry himself removed over $3 billion from the state budget last year when Texas received an additional $3.25 billion in stimulus funds. Instead of increasing Texas’ education budget, as intended, teachers and schoolchildren across the state saw little additional funds. “Last year, Governor Perry manipulated stimulus funds sent to Texas intended to substantially increase the education budget,” said Rep. Gene Green. “If the Governor would stop playing the political game, we wouldn’t have to step in to ensure school districts across the state receive the much needed funding our children deserve.” The State of Texas will now receive $830 million in new emergency federal funds to preserve teacher jobs and meet local education needs. The funds will be sent directly from the Department of Education through a Title I formula, preventing the state government from being able to interfere with the funding stream and direct the money to the state’s rainy day fund, as the Governor did last year with stimulus funds. “The language in this amendment simply requires that the money designated for Texas’ students and schools actually reaches Texas’ students and schools” continued Rep. Green. “If cuts to the state’s budget are necessary, the provision requires that cuts to education not be a larger percentage than to other programs.” Support for the amendment has been received from local school districts across the state and major education organizations including Texas Elementary Principals and Supervisors Association, Texas Association of School Boards, Texas State Teachers Association, Association for Texas Professional Educators, Texas Association of School Administrators, and Texas Classroom Teachers Association. ###
08.05.2010	Houston, TX – As the cleanup in the Gulf continues, Rep. Gene Green (TX-29), Rep. Kevin Brady (TX-08), and Rep. Steve Scalise (LA-01) sent a bipartisan letter to President Obama with 32 of their colleagues calling for the urgent lifting of the Gulf deepwater drilling moratorium. After a federal judge struck down the Administration’s first moratorium, a second deepwater drilling moratorium was put in place. “I’m proud to represent a blue collar district that is deeply connected to the oil and gas industry,” said Rep. Green. “This moratorium is putting the livelihood at risk of not only the people of our area, but of thousands more across the Gulf.” In addition to further damaging an already fragile economy, the moratorium is putting our energy independence and security at risk. “Presently, companies are either planning to move drilling rigs out of the Gulf for other locations around the world or have already done so,” the letter stated. When those rigs are moved, it could be years before they return to the Gulf - if ever. “Drilling and exploratory wells are distinct from one another and present different regulations and levels of risk,” Rep. Green went on to say. “It is possible to continue the investigation into what went wrong on the Deepwater Horizon and apply new regulations, both while continuing production and preventing further job loss and economic damage.” Rep. Green and his colleagues from Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi are urging for the immediate issuance of new drilling permits. ###
08.05.2010	Houston, TX – As the record summer heat continues, Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) led a letter with Rep. Ed Pastor (AZ-04) to President Obama urging the release of additional funding to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). The letter was cosigned by 26 Democratic Representatives representing districts across the country. “With energy bills remaining high and economic conditions challenging for many Americans, LIHEAP has never been more vital in protecting millions of low-income families, senior citizens and disabled individuals from extreme weather conditions,” the Members of Congress wrote. “More people die every year from the effects of hot weather than cold weather,” Rep. Green said. “LIHEAP is an essential lifeline for struggling families across our area and nation.” Through the release of emergency LIHEAP funding, low-income families and those living on a fixed income will not have to make a choice between paying high energy bills and feeding their families. At a press conference on July 28 with the National Fuel Fund Network, American Gas Association, and the Edison Electric Institute, Rep. Green spoke on the importance of the program and the need for continued funding. “There is $100 million remaining in contingency funds that have already been appropriated,” Rep. Green continued. “The President has already shown support for LIHEAP by releasing $450 million in contingency funds in January and we need that support to be continued with the release of additional funds as people across the country suffer through a record heat wave.” ###
07.30.2010	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Gene Green (TX-29), Rep. Fred Upton (MI-06) and 46 colleagues today introduced legislation that directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to wait for Congress to enact a law prior to issuing rules, regulations, or orders concerning additional regulation of broadband internet service. The FCC has said it is strongly considering classifying broadband Internet service under Title II of the Communications Act, without adequate delegated authority by Congress. “Currently, Congressional Leadership is working on crafting targeted legislation aimed at broadband Internet. It is important that the FCC gives Congress time necessary to complete its work. If the FCC continues its pursuit of reclassification, the result will be lengthy court battles that will reduce, or even halt, capital investments and effectively cease the improvement and expansion of access to the unserved and underserved areas of the country while eliminating much-needed jobs across the country,” said Rep. Green. The Concurrent Resolution expresses the sense of Congress that a law should be enacted to provide guidance to the FCC before the Commission continues current proceedings to issue new regulations. Allowing Congress to pass targeted legislation will permit the FCC to work within the law to establish authority. If the FCC pushes through with reclassification, it will create market uncertainty, reduce employment, and harm investment and innovation. The FCC’s National Broadband Plan calls for the closing of the digital divide that bars individuals and businesses from accessing information because of limited or no access to the Internet. A nationwide broadband deployment will result in massive job creation and the adoption of broadband service in rural and urban areas across the country and must not be needlessly delayed by litigation challenging the FCC’s self-directed authority. “This Concurrent Resolution reinforces the powers that are reserved for Congress under the Constitution,” continued Rep. Green. “We must preserve an open internet and expand access to it, but it must be done with respect to the legislative process. It is my hope that with the number of cosponsors this resolution received, the FCC will hear the message from Congress and publicly respond that they will wait for proper legislative authority.” ###
07.30.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) spoke on the House floor today in opposition to H.R. 3534, the Consolidated Land, Energy, and Aquatic Resources (CLEAR) Act. Rep. Green supports the implementation of increased rules and regulations for the safety of offshore oil and gas production, however the CLEAR Act includes unrelated provisions that will kill oil and gas related jobs onshore and offshore. “I’m proud to represent a district that does everything energy from constituents working offshore, to service companies, refineries and chemical plants and I strongly support making production safer and cleaner,” Rep. Green said. “But imposing unlimited liability for economic damages will effectively eliminate from the Gulf of Mexico U.S. independent exploration and development companies.” Included in the CLEAR Act is a provision that completely lifts the liability cap on economic damages currently imposed for companies involved in oil and gas exploration and production. While no one questions unlimited liability on the responsible party for environmental clean-up costs, with no cap in place on economic damages, independent companies will not be able to afford insurance payments and hundreds of companies will be driven out of business. “If you want to eliminate jobs and shut down hundreds of small businesses, vote for this bill,” Rep. Green continued. Rep. Green’s concerns with the CLEAR Act also include extraneous provisions unrelated to the safety of offshore production. Section 728 requires storm water discharge permits for oil and gas construction activities, Section 802 forces a $2 conservation fee per barrel onshore and offshore – fees that will be passed on to consumers – and Section 241 forces companies to renegotiate their deepwater royalty relief leases or be ineligible to bid on new leases. “These provisions have nothing to do with responding to the BP oil spill,” Rep. Green went on to say. “This bill will kill jobs, hurt our domestic production, and it has become a vehicle for controversial and extraneous provisions that do not address the issue at hand. I strongly encourage my colleagues to vote against this bill.” ###
07.30.2010	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Gene Green (TX-29), Rep. Fred Upton (MI-06) and 46 colleagues today introduced legislation that directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to wait for Congress to enact a law prior to issuing rules, regulations, or orders concerning additional regulation of broadband internet service. The FCC has said it is strongly considering classifying broadband Internet service under Title II of the Communications Act, without adequate delegated authority by Congress. “Currently, Congressional Leadership is working on crafting targeted legislation aimed at broadband Internet. It is important that the FCC gives Congress time necessary to complete its work. If the FCC continues its pursuit of reclassification, the result will be lengthy court battles that will reduce, or even halt, capital investments and effectively cease the improvement and expansion of access to the unserved and underserved areas of the country while eliminating much-needed jobs across the country,” said Rep. Green. The Concurrent Resolution expresses the sense of Congress that a law should be enacted to provide guidance to the FCC before the Commission continues current proceedings to issue new regulations. Allowing Congress to pass targeted legislation will permit the FCC to work within the law to establish authority. If the FCC pushes through with reclassification, it will create market uncertainty, reduce employment, and harm investment and innovation. The FCC’s National Broadband Plan calls for the closing of the digital divide that bars individuals and businesses from accessing information because of limited or no access to the Internet. A nationwide broadband deployment will result in massive job creation and the adoption of broadband service in rural and urban areas across the country and must not be needlessly delayed by litigation challenging the FCC’s self-directed authority. “This Concurrent Resolution reinforces the powers that are reserved for Congress under the Constitution,” continued Rep. Green. “We must preserve an open internet and expand access to it, but it must be done with respect to the legislative process. It is my hope that with the number of cosponsors this resolution received, the FCC will hear the message from Congress and publicly respond that they will wait for proper legislative authority.” ###
07.30.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) spoke on the House floor today in opposition to H.R. 3534, the Consolidated Land, Energy, and Aquatic Resources (CLEAR) Act. Rep. Green supports the implementation of increased rules and regulations for the safety of offshore oil and gas production, however the CLEAR Act includes unrelated provisions that will kill oil and gas related jobs onshore and offshore. “I’m proud to represent a district that does everything energy from constituents working offshore, to service companies, refineries and chemical plants and I strongly support making production safer and cleaner,” Rep. Green said. “But imposing unlimited liability for economic damages will effectively eliminate from the Gulf of Mexico U.S. independent exploration and development companies.” Included in the CLEAR Act is a provision that completely lifts the liability cap on economic damages currently imposed for companies involved in oil and gas exploration and production. While no one questions unlimited liability on the responsible party for environmental clean-up costs, with no cap in place on economic damages, independent companies will not be able to afford insurance payments and hundreds of companies will be driven out of business. “If you want to eliminate jobs and shut down hundreds of small businesses, vote for this bill,” Rep. Green continued. Rep. Green’s concerns with the CLEAR Act also include extraneous provisions unrelated to the safety of offshore production. Section 728 requires storm water discharge permits for oil and gas construction activities, Section 802 forces a $2 conservation fee per barrel onshore and offshore – fees that will be passed on to consumers – and Section 241 forces companies to renegotiate their deepwater royalty relief leases or be ineligible to bid on new leases. “These provisions have nothing to do with responding to the BP oil spill,” Rep. Green went on to say. “This bill will kill jobs, hurt our domestic production, and it has become a vehicle for controversial and extraneous provisions that do not address the issue at hand. I strongly encourage my colleagues to vote against this bill.” ###
07.28.2010	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) voted in support of “Make it in America” strategy by supporting three bills that will rebuild the American manufacturing base, put the American people back to work, and grow our economy. With an emphasis on creating the high-skill, high-wage jobs of the future, “Make it in America” promotes American competitiveness, innovation, and exports. “For every job we create in manufacturing, 4 more jobs will be created in other industries. Moving America forward means reinvigorating the manufacturing industry at home,” said Rep. Green. “Our area relies on refiners and chemical producers and we want the products that support those industries to be made at home.” The three bills passed by the House today represent crucial next steps in the Democratic “Make it in America” agenda. The National Manufacturing Strategy Act creates a Manufacturing Strategy Board that will develop short- and long-term goals for America’s manufacturing industry. The Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Act supports our clean American energy economy by making it easier for companies to navigate foreign market and promoting investments and reducing production costs for these companies. The End the Trade Deficit Act rethinks United States trade policy so that we no longer import more than we export. “With these bills, we are one step closer to changing our manufacturing sector for the better,” continued Rep. Green. “When we make it in America, middle class families will benefit.” America has been at the forefront of every technological and industrial innovation and America will continue to lead the world with this support of the manufacturing base by putting Americans back to work making things again. The “Make it in America” strategy provides hometown tax credits to help small businesses hire new employees and sell their products overseas, boosts incentives to create American clean energy jobs like state-of-the-art wind turbines and solar panels, and gives incentives to hire and re-train America’s returning veterans for new clean energy jobs. ###
07.28.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) announced the inclusion of funding for Houston-area projects in the House Subcommittee on Appropriations’ Subcommittee on Defense FY 2011 Defense Appropriations recommendations. The subcommittee included two of Rep. Green’s requests and after moving through full committee, the appropriations bill will be voted on by the full House of Representatives. “These programs will go a long way in not only in providing economic support for our area, but in promoting engineering careers and advancing our national clean energy projects,” said Rep. Green. The defense subcommittee recommended $1 million for HoustonWorks USA Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Initiative. The program supports a national agenda to promote STEM careers by focusing on at-risk or hard to serve youth. Rep. Green requested these funds jointly with Reps. Al Green (TX-09) and Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18). Also included is $2 million for the University of Houston Program for Space and Defense Nano-Photovoltaics. This program advances the nation’s clean energy capability by developing nano-structured thin film solar cells for highly efficient energy and utilization. The technology will be used by the Department of Defense and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and would double or triple the energy efficiency of present solar cells. “These programs are of local and national significance and I would like to thank the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense for including them,” continued Rep. Green. ###
07.22.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) voted to stand with American families and extend unemployment benefits for millions of Americans who have earned them through a lifetime of work and lost their jobs through no fault of their own. Republicans in the Senate blocked these benefits for more than 7 weeks, causing 2.5 million American families to lose the benefits they earned. The benefits are a proven boost to the American economy, shown by economists to create jobs as families spend into the economy. “Three times the House has sent unemployment benefits extension to the Senate and each time the Senate was not able to act in the interest of the American people,” Rep. Green said. “On behalf of the 2.5 million families who have lost benefits while our efforts have been stalled, I’m very happy the Senate has finally been able to resolve differences, move forward, and restore an essential lifeline.” This bill extends the Emergency Unemployment Compensation and Extended Benefits programs through November 30, 2010 and retroactively restores benefits to some people who already lost theirs. Extending unemployment benefits is good for the unemployed and one of the best and fastest ways to stimulate the economy, according to analysis from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO). Unemployment benefits were responsible for creating more than 1 million jobs since the recession started, and adding almost 2 percent to the gross domestic product according to the Economic Policy Institute. Every dollar in unemployment benefits creates $1.61 in economic activity, according to Economist and former John McCain advisor, Mark Zandi. “As our area and our country continue to recover from the recession, these benefits are essential to millions of Americans who persist in looking for work,” continued Rep. Green. “People of our area depend on these funds as vital support for their families and as a critical link to make ends meet during a very difficult economy.” ###
07.22.2010	Washington, D.C. – The bipartisan Family Health Care Accessibility Act (H.R. 1745), introduced by Congressmen Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Gene Green (D-TX), to help address the shortage of healthcare providers in underserved communities was passed unanimously passed today by the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health with a recommendation for full Committee passage.“Health centers are about to take on an even greater responsibility of care for our nation,” said Congressman Tim Murphy (PA-18). “By 2015, health centers will double the number of patients served to 40 million. Although, the amount of patients at community health centers is rapidly growing, the number of physicians available to treat these patients is decreasing. Last year, more than 3,400 primary care physician positions were unfilled. Extending medical liability protections to volunteer physicians would result in more doctors, and more patients being served at a lower cost to these centers. And the cost to do this is pennies on the dollar. It is estimated that extension of FTCA protection would cost the federal government just $1.5 million a year, but it would serve millions more new patients.”“I’d like to thank Congressman Murphy for his leadership on this bill,” said Rep. Gene Green (TX-29). “This is the third time we’ve moved the bill out of committee and I’m hoping that the Senate will be able to get behind the bill. It is extremely important to the community health centers in my area and across the country to be able to bring on licensed medical practitioners willing to volunteer their time with the support of federal liability coverage.”Under current law, volunteers at free clinics and physicians employed at community health centers are covered under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA). But if a physician works at a free clinic or volunteers at a community health center, they are not covered by the FTCA and must provide their own medical malpractice insurance which could cost more than $100,000, making it too costly for many doctors to volunteer. The Family Health Care Accessibility Act corrects this inequity.Non-profit community health centers provide vital primary care to 20 million Americans, seventy percent of whom live below the poverty line. But a physician staffing crisis at these centers is forcing families to forego preventive care and instead end up in the emergency room for care.“I would like to thank Congressman Gene Green for his continued support on this legislation which will improve the lives of millions of families in our communities and ensure that doctors who want to help, finally can,” said Congressman Murphy.The bill now moves to the full House Energy and Commerce Committee for a vote.###
07.20.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) announced the inclusion of his appropriations requests in the FY2011 Labor-Health and Human Services (HHS) Appropriations Bill. The requests were included as parts of the federal appropriations process earlier this year and the House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Labor, HHS, Education and Related Agencies has released their recommendations. “I’m very happy that the Subcommittee on Labor, HHS, and Education has recognized the importance of these projects to our area,” Rep. Green said. “While there are more steps involved until our area receives the funds, I look forward to seeing the positive impact these investments will make.” Included in the appropriations bill is $500,000 for San Jacinto College International Maritime and Energy Center of Houston Program. The project will allow enhanced training programs that develop skilled workers in technical education and a training workforce pipeline in regional dual credit programs with area high schools. Also is $125,000 for Houston Hispanic Forum Career and Education Day (CED). CED draws 16,000 students in grades 6-12, parents and volunteers to learn about careers and higher education opportunities. This program is important for creating educational opportunities for constituents of the 29th District of Texas. Rep. Green also made a joint request with Rep. Al Green (TX-09) for Memorial Hermann TIRR (The Institute for Rehabilitation and Research) Challenge Program for Soldiers. The program received a $250,000 earmark to improve recover, build strength, new skills and confidence to continue daily activities despite an injury. Rep. Green also made requests for national programs. Those requests included in the appropriations bill are $14 million for Project Grad, $6 million for Reach Out and Read, $24 million for Reading is Fundamental, and $20 million for Teach for America. ###
07.16.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) voted to help American families affordably protect their homes from flooding. The Flood Insurance Reform Priorities Act will extend the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) for five years and reform the program by expanding coverage and providing homeowners with more control over their insurance. “Our area heavily relies on the National Flood Insurance Program,” said Rep. Green. “These common sense reforms will provide protection to more families in our area more affordably.” More than five million homes and businesses currently rely on the NFIP, which is the primary source of reliable and affordable flood insurance coverage. This bill secures the long-term viability of the program by encouraging participation, increasing financial accountability, and eliminating unnecessary premium subsidies for the next five years. This reform bill updates the NFIP, established over 40 years ago, to meet the needs of the 21st century. It raises maximum coverage limits for the first time since 1994, providing a stronger safety net for families threatened by flooding. The bill also provides families with greater flexibility and options, by allowing them to pay for flood insurance in installments, creating the office of the Flood Insurance Advocate to protect and assist policyholders, and delaying the mandatory requirement to purchase insurance for five years in areas only recently declared as a flood zone. The Flood Insurance Reform Act has been endorsed by numerous organizations, including the National Association of Realtors, the National Association of Homebuilders, the American Insurance Association, the Property Casualty Insurers Association, and the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America.
07.02.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) announced preliminary approval for federal funding totaling $152.95 million for 6 projects in the Houston-area. The money was requested as part of the federal appropriations process earlier this year and the House Appropriations Committee Subcommittees on Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) and Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) released their recommendations earlier today. “These projects are important to the Houston-area as we continue our economic recovery and develop our community and infrastructure,” said Rep. Green. Included in the CJS Subcommittee recommendations is $250,000 for the Juvenile Justice Initiative of HoustonWorks USA. This program supports a national agenda to build a strong workforce by providing educational and rehabilitative services and support that stabilized at-risk youth. Included in the THUD Subcommittee recommendations are 4 projects for the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County (Metro). To develop the area’s Advanced Transit Program, $75 million for Metro North Corridor and $75 million for Metro Southeast Corridor were recommended. The North and Southeast Corridor projects are a combined 11.8 miles of Light Rail Transit that will increase mobility, improve the city’s air quality, and promote economic development and create jobs as the projects are completed. For the US 90A Rail Corridor, $1 million has been included for a light rail line extension from the Texas Medical Center to Missouri City. The Metro Solutions Bus program has been recommended for $1 million which will replace buses that are no longer effective, expand Metro’s fleet, and expand bus service. THUD has also recommended $700,000 for the North and South Lynchburg Ferry Landings in Harris County, Precinct Two. The landings haven’t been refurbished or updated in years and these funds will provide better connectivity between the historical and recreational sites to in increase the number of visitors and provide an economic stimulus for Ship Channel communities. “While there are more steps that need to occur before final approval of this funding is given, I am very glad there were included and thank the Appropriations subcommittees for recognizing their importance to our area and placing them in their recommendations,” Rep. Green added. ###
07.02.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) voted for and the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4899, the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2010. Included in the bill are key provisions such as emergency funding for school districts, the Gulf Coast oil spill, border security, energy loans. The costs of the additional funding are fully offset. “The FY10 Supplemental Appropriations bill includes just over $37 billion to fund our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan for our continued security at home and abroad,” said Rep. Green. Included in the supplemental is $10 billion for an Education Jobs Fund that will provide emergency support to local school districts to prevent impending layoffs. This fund will be administered by the Department of Education that will make formula allocations based on total population and school age population. The bill prohibits states from using these funds to add to “Rainy Day Funds” or pay off debt. The supplemental also provides $701 million to strengthen enforcement on the southern border of the U.S. $208.4 million will be used for 1,200 additional Border Patrol agents and $136 million will maintain the current Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer staffing levels and add 500 additional officers at the ports of entry along the southwest border. “This bill provides an important component of our long-term domestic energy portfolio,” Rep. Green added. “Through nuclear loan guarantees, 3 nuclear energy expansion projects, including one in South Texas, will receive additional and needed funds.” On May 12, 2010, members of the Texas delegation sent a bipartisan and bicameral letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations requesting that the Department of Energy (DoE) back nuclear loan guarantees. Signed on to the letter were Senators Hutchison and Cornyn, and Congressmen Gene Green, Chet Edwards, Charles Gonzalez, and Ciro Rodriguez. The supplemental included $180 million to allow $18 billion in innovative technology energy loans, split evenly between nuclear and renewable energy programs. ###
07.02.2010	Houston, TX – With the help of dozens of volunteers, Rep. Gene Green’s (TX-29) 16th Annual Citizenship Day was a resounding success. Nearly 250 legal residents received assistance in the process of becoming United States citizens. “This year, we had one of our most successful Citizenship Day events yet,” said Rep. Green. “It is always such an honor to be able to assist people in the dream of becoming a U.S. citizen.” The event was held at the Northline Campus of Houston Community College where applicants started lining up early in the morning, well before the 8:00am start time. Thanks to local media coverage, people continued to arrive throughout the morning. Volunteers assisted participants with the naturalization application including taking photos and providing legal aid. In addition to members of Rep. Green’s staff, volunteers came from NALEO, Hewlett Packard-HP, CHASE, Hispanic Organization of Postal Employees, LULAC Council 402, LULAC Council 4967, LULAC Council 18, LULAC Youth Council 381, Foster Quan LLP, Houston Community College-Northline Campus, and USPS. For information on volunteering or participating in next year’s Citizenship Day event, please call (281) 999-5879. # # #
07.01.2010	Washington, D.C. – To ensure that federal money intended for Texas’ schoolchildren reaches classrooms across the state, the Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation has urged Education Secretary Arne Duncan, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, and House Committee on Appropriations Chairman David Obey to include language that will guarantee emergency federal education dollars are spent on K-12 public education in the state. “Unfortunately, last year Governor Perry was able to manipulate the intent of stimulus money sent to Texas and remove funds from the state budget committed for local schools,” Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) said. “Instead of Texas receiving an additional $3 billion for education, schools received no additional funding and Governor Perry was able to line the state’s coffers.” The Democratic Delegation succeeded in including language, specific to the State of Texas, in the Supplemental Appropriations bill, H.R. 4899, which will distribute Texas’ share of the emergency education funds through federal Title I formula. This prevents the state government from being able to interfere with this funding stream which is specifically designated for education purposes. Last year, when $3.4 billion was sent to Texas as part of the stimulus bill, the state government decided to use the money to increase the state’s rainy day fund instead of its intended recipients, the schools and students of Texas. Rep. Green and his Democratic colleagues rallied support from local school districts and major education organizations throughout the state in an appeal to Secretary Duncan, Speaker Pelosi, Majority Leader Hoyer, and Chairman Obey, in a letter sent on June 22 to make this guarantee. “Congress is working to save the jobs of teachers across Texas and across the nation,” Rep. Green continued. “The supplemental appropriations bill includes $10 billion to prevent teacher layoffs. At a time when the economy is still recovering, the last thing we need is to put our valued teachers and our children’s education at risk.” ###
07.01.2010	Washington, D.C.–Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) voted to rein in Wall Street, end taxpayer bailouts of big banks, and create a consumer financial protection bureau that finally puts consumers first. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will end the era of abuses by “too big to fail” banks that have cost the American people 8 million jobs and $17 trillion in retirement savings and net worth. “Working families in Texas have lost their homes, their jobs, and their retirement savings as a result of Wall Street’s recklessness and greed,” said Rep. Green. “We’re working in Congress to restore common sense and empower consumers – and this bill is a huge step in the right direction.” The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act helps to prevent the risky financial practices that led to the financial meltdown and stop large financial firms from gambling with Americans’ retirement and college savings and home values. In addition, taxpayers will no longer pay the price for Wall Street’s irresponsibility. The bill creates a process to shut down large, failing firms whose collapse would put the entire economy at risk. After exhausting all of the company’s assets, additional costs would be covered by a “dissolution fund,” to which all large financial firms would contribute. The bill will create the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a new consumer watchdog devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial practices. This independent bureau will provide clear and accurate information to families and small businesses to ensure that bank loans, mortgages, and credit cards are fair and affordable. The CFPA will set safety standards to prevent practices such as hidden credit card fees, deceptive “fine print,” and other financial abuses that have escaped oversight so far. “This bill is about whose side you’re on,” said Rep. Green. “It protects consumers from fraud and provides Texans with financial security while injecting transparency and accountability into the financial system.” The bill has been called the “strongest set of Wall Street reforms in three generations” by Elizabeth Warren, Chair of the nonpartisan Congressional Oversight Panel, and has been endorsed by the AARP, Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, Council of Institutional Investors, National Fair Housing Alliance, National Restaurant Association, Public Citizen, SEIU, and US PIRG, among other organizations. The bill was publicly debated for more than 50 hours, and includes over 70 Republican and bipartisan amendments. # # #
07.01.2010	Washington, D.C. – Beginning today, Texans who have been denied health insurance coverage for at least 6 months due to pre-existing conditions will now have access to affordable and quality insurance. Included in the health reform law passed earlier this year is the establishment of a Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan (PCIP) as a transitional program until 2014, when health insurers will be prohibited from discriminating against adults with pre-existing conditions. “I’m happy to announce the people of our area who have previously been denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition will now be able to access the quality coverage health insurance coverage they deserve and require,” said Rep. Gene Green (TX-29). The Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan will be administered either by a state or by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). It will provide a health coverage option for those who have been uninsured for at least six months, have been unable to get health coverage because of a pre-existing condition, and are a U.S. citizen or legal resident. Texas is one of 21 states that have opted to let HHS run the PCIP, 29 states and DC have chosen to run their own PCIP. Individuals can see if they qualify for PCIP coverage by visiting https://www.pcip.gov/. Also launched today is the new website HealthCare.gov, the most comprehensive resource about health care available. The website provides updated health reform information and a consumer-friendly tool that will help individuals and small businesses navigate the process of shopping for health insurance. “As implementation of the new law continues to be phased in, this website will be a valuable resource on how it affects you,” said Rep. Green. “It provides not only in-depth information, but includes a valuable tool to assist in acquiring PCIP health insurance.” The insurance options finder has a database of over 2 billion scenarios and hosts over 500 new pages of content, such as a health care reform implementation timeline and state-by-state information for individuals with pre-existing conditions. For more information in health reform, please visit www.HealthCare.govFor information on pre-existing condition health coverage, please visit https://www.pcip.gov/ and https://www.healthcare.gov/law/about/states/tx.html # # #
06.30.2010	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) of the House Committee on Appropriations released their FY 2011 Appropriations bill. In it, the subcommittee agreed to accept the NASA funding increase included in the President’s proposed budget, but did not take a position on changing the agency’s course. This is a significant accomplishment for supporters of NASA’s current human spaceflight program, which would have been cut losing thousands of highly skilled jobs and jeopardized America’s leadership role in space. “I am very pleased that Chairman Mollohan and the CJS Appropriations Subcommittee have recognized that the President cannot change NASA’s human space exploration program through budgetary proposal,” Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) said. “Congress must authorize the direction of our space program.” In his opening statement in the markup of the subcommittee’s FY11 appropriations bill, Chairman Alan Mollohan (WV-01) stated that the subcommittee has no position on the proposed new direction but that, “Any major change to the direction of the Nation’s space program should come through an authorization passed by Congress and signed into law by the President.” “I will continue to work with the Administration on a compromise that supports America as the leader in space exploration and protects the thousands of jobs across the country and in the Houston-area that are supported by NASA’s human spaceflight program,” continued Rep. Green. On June 22, Rep. Green led a letter with Reps. John Culberson (TX-07), Frank Wolf (VA-10), and C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) with 58 of their colleagues from 18 states in a bipartisan appeal to the President outlining compromise principles that would preserve NASA’s human spaceflight program. Text of bipartisan letter: President Barack Obama1600 Pennsylvania AvenueWashington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express concern for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2011 President's Budget for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Human space exploration is ingrained in the American psyche. It is part of who we are as explorers, entrepreneurs, scientists and Americans. The proposed Exploration Systems Mission Directorate reduction jeopardizes our country's leadership in space and could put our national security at risk. Additionally, we do not see the benefit of a 5-year delay to a decision on exploration system architecture. If we continue with this new space policy, including the outright cancellation of the Constellation program, we are concerned that other countries will forge ahead of us, challenging our space dominance as we literally cede the higher ground to our foreign competitors. We must have a strong national program to take us beyond low-Earth orbit. In addition to wasting years of hard work and more than $10 billion invested in the Constellation program, the cancellation of this program with nothing else in the pipeline will prevent us from exploring space for many years. It is in the nation's best interest to leverage the investments made in Constellation over the last 5 years, into a beyond low Earth orbit exploration program, today. We support the immediate development and production of a heavy-lift launch vehicle that, in conjunction with the Orion Crew Exploration Vehicle, may be used for either lunar or deep-space exploration to an asteroid and beyond, as you said in Florida. This would provide operational flexibility while ensuring our taxpayers' investments have not been made in vain. Industry and space experts believe that a heavy-lift exploration system could be operational within six years and achieved within NASA's Exploration topline budget. With no significant technological breakthroughs on the horizon in regard to heavy-lift propulsion needs, we see no reason to prolong a decision that will result in the loss of a highly-experienced and motivated workforce. Furthermore, we believe that reinvigorating NASA and our nation's science, technology, engineering and mathematics workforce for the 21st century is fundamentally dependent on a strong national space program that begins today. A robust American deep-space exploration program would ensure that American astronauts explore beyond low-Earth orbit to the Moon, Mars or any number of exciting deep space destinations. Additionally, a renewed focus on heavy-lift vehicles and exploration will inspire our youth, invigorate our workforce and protect many jobs in today's difficult economy. We look forward to working with you in the coming weeks to make the necessary changes in order to support an exploration program that continues our elite astronaut corps, preserves an irreplaceable workforce, protects our defense industrial base and ensures that the U.S. will leave low-Earth orbit within the decade. Sincerely, # # #
06.24.2010	Washington, D.C. – As the White House continues its ban on deepwater drilling in the Gulf, a bipartisan group of lawmakers is proposing an interim step that would satisfy concerns about further spills while protecting approximately three-fourths of the jobs associated with oil and gas production in the Outer Continental Shelf. In a letter sent to Secretary Salazar today, 24 lawmakers - led by Texas Reps. Kevin Brady (R-Woodlands) and Gene Green (D-Houston) - proposed allowing low-risk development and appraisal wells to go forward while the Department of Interior continues its assessment on deepwater exploratory wells. Earlier this week a Louisiana federal judge struck down the moratorium, but Administration officials have vowed to appeal. “We believe a critical distinction has been overlooked. Different wells present different levels of risk,” the letter stated and also noted that while historically safe, the highest risk occurs during the initial drilling of exploration wells – five of which are impacted by the moratorium. The other twenty-eight impacted wells in the Gulf are development and appraisal wells which carry much smaller, minimal risk as the parameters of the known reservoir are already defined. “This modification to the moratorium will address the Administration’s call for safe and secure drilling, protect an estimated 75% of the jobs that could be lost under the existing deepwater moratorium and help prevent future energy supply shortages in years 2011 and 2012,” say Brady and Green. The bipartisan group of lawmakers also urged the Department of Interior to consider indicating now that U.S. deepwater lease terms will be extended consistent with not just the length of the moratorium but the resulting delay in returning the rig to the OCS and its lease site. This request recognizes that deepwater rigs would not be able to return to production in the Gulf for an additional two to three years after the moratorium expires. “This action will ensure that companies continue the major financial investments that permit successful energy production in the United States,” wrote the lawmakers who are concerned the Gulf Coast could suffer the loss of tens of thousands of jobs, $2 billion in wages and the bankruptcies of small and mid-sized businesses who support energy production in the Gulf’s deep water. Signing the letter are: Rep. Kevin Brady (TX-08), Rep. Gene Green (TX-29), Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX), Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22), Rep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Rep. Chet Edwards (TX-17), Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Rep. Gregg Harper (MS-03), Rep. Michael Conaway (TX-11), Rep. Joe Barton (TX-06), Rep. Sam Johnson (TX-03), Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21), Rep. Ron Paul (TX-14), Rep. John Carter (TX-31), Rep. Pete Sessions (TX-32), Rep. John Culberson (TX-07), Rep. Mac Thornberry (TX-13), Rep. Kay Granger (TX-12), Rep. Trent Franks (AZ-02), Rep. Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Rep. Ralph Hall (TX-04), Rep. Michael Burgess (TX-26), Rep. Michael McCaul (TX-10), Rep. Rodney Alexander (LA-05) ###
06.23.2010	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Gene Green (TX-29), Rep. John Culberson (TX-07), Rep. Frank Wolf (VA-10), and Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) along with 58 of their colleagues from 18 states sent a letter to President Obama outlining compromise principles that would preserve NASA’s human spaceflight program. In February, the President proposed cancelling NASA’s Constellation Program and reducing the Exploration Systems Mission Directorate by $5.7 billion over five years. This proposal jeopardizes our country's leadership in space and could put our national security at risk. “We hope the Administration is willing to work with us on the compromise,” Rep. Green said. “It is an important step in ensuring we save our valuable workforce and keeps America as the leader in space exploration.” The bipartisan group of lawmakers urged the President to preserve the highly trained and skilled workforce connected with the manned spaceflight program through the immediate development of a heavy lift vehicle. NASA has to date invested approximately $10 billion into the Constellation program and the immediate commencement of its heavy lift vehicle development and continued development of the Orion crew exploration vehicle will ensure the safe deployment of humans beyond low earth orbit in approximately 6 years along, while preserving our workforce and defense industrial base. This will further the President’s own commitment to launching humans to an asteroid by 2025 and to Mars by the mid-2030s. “This is a good compromise with broad bipartisan support,” Rep. Culberson stated. “I’m hopeful that the Administration will come to the table to preserve America’s leadership role in space.” “I urge the president to embrace these core principles to ensure continued U.S. leadership in space,” Rep. Wolf said. “The immediate development of a heavy lift rocket and crew capsule to take American astronauts beyond low Earth orbit is something that all supporters of NASA can unite behind.” Thousands of American space workers encompass the complete experience of this generation’s only human spaceflight program. The technologies discovered and developed from the spaceflight program have furthermore added to our national security. With the loss of this program, America will lose an encouragement to high technology education and the pipeline of America’s best and brightest minds to our national security programs. “I am concerned we are in danger of losing the space race to countries like Russia and China if we don’t continue our manned space program and make a serious investment in long-term research and development. I believe we can come to some sort of compromise with the Administration to save these jobs, cut costs, advance America’s presence in space, and protect our country’s national security all at the same time,” said Rep. Ruppersberger, Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee. Support for NASA’s human spaceflight program has been received from industry experts and dozens of former astronauts including Neil Armstrong, Jim Lovell, and Gene Cernan. The complete list of cosigners:Arizona:Trent Franks (R)Ed Pastor (D) Ohio: Steven LaTourette (R)Michael Turner (R) Maryland:Dutch Ruppersberger (D) New York:Maurice Hinchey (D) Kansas:Lynn Jenkins (R) Virginia:Frank Wolf (R) Colorado:Ed Perlmutter (D)John Salazar (D) Louisiana:Joseph Cao (R)John Fleming (R)Charlie Melancon (D)Steve Scalise (R)Rodney Alexander (R) Alabama:Mike Rogers (R) Georgia:Sanford Bishop (D) Florida:Suzanne Kosmas (D)Bill Posey (R)Alan Grayson (D)Adam Putnam (R)Ander Crenshaw (R)Jeff Miller (R)Ron Klein (D)Corrine Brown (D)Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D)C.W. Bill Young (R)Mario Diaz-Balart (R)Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R)Tom Rooney (R) California:Laura Richardson (D)Ken Calvert (R)John Campbell (R)Buck McKeon (R) Oregon:David Wu (D) Washington:Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R) Pennsylvania:Robert Brady (D) Rhode Island:Jim Langevin (D) Missouri: Todd Akin (R) Texas:Gene Green (D)John Culberson (R)Sheila Jackson-Lee (D)Henry Cuellar (D)John Carter (R)Al Green (D)Ted Poe (R)Mac Thornberry (R)Mike McCaul (R)Kevin Brady (R)Ciro Rodriguez (D)Ruben Hinojosa (D)Solomon Ortiz (D)Silvestre Reyes (D)Joe Barton (R)Charles Gonzalez (D)Kay Granger (R)Pete Sessions (R)Michael Conoway (R)Michael Burgess (R)Louie Gohmert (R)Kenny Marchant (R)Lamar Smith (R) ###
06.17.2010	Washington, DC–Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) voted in favor of legislation that will leverage $300 billion in lending for small businesses and create hundreds of thousands of jobs. This legislation, which expands much-needed lending to small businesses and offers tax incentives to help America’s small businesses grow, is fully paid for and will save taxpayers $1 billion over the next ten years. “Our area’s small businesses will continue to be the engine of our economic recovery,” said Rep. Green. “Small businesses have created two-thirds of the new jobs over the last 15 years, and this legislation will give them the capital they need to put the workers of our area back to work and drive job creation and innovation.” The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act will help small businesses expand through investments in states and small banks that focus on lending to local small businesses. This new $30 billion lending fund, with tough performance-based incentives and safeguards to ensure that funds go to American small business, will spur job creation across America. The bill will also help cultivate American innovation through a new public-private partnership designed to channel early stage investment capital to promising new start-ups. The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act offers tax incentives to spur immediate investments in America’s small businesses. These reforms will lower the capital gains taxes on small business investments, and increase tax deductions to help entrepreneurs to recover more start-up expenses. “This legislation is just another part of our ongoing effort to create jobs and put our economy on sound footing for the future,” said Rep. Green. “Last year, almost half of the small businesses seeking loans were unable to meet their credit needs. That is unacceptable. Congress realizes the importance of supporting Main Street.” The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act has been endorsed by a variety of organizations, including the National Small Business Association, the Small Business Majority, National Association of Realtors, the Conference of State Bank Supervisors, the American Bankers Association, Biotechnology Industry Organizationand the National Bankers Association. # # #
06.16.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement in response to the President’s remarks on the recent Gulf Coast oil spill. States along the Gulf Coast are in the midst of dealing with this tragedy and my thoughts and prayers go out to the families and communities affected by this terrible accident. However, while we anxiously await a positive outcome from efforts to contain the spill, we are also beginning the process of thoroughly evaluating answers to the many questions we have as to what went wrong and how to hold responsible parties accountable. In the mean time, I support the President's efforts to create an escrow account funded by BP so that the persons affected by this accident will have access to the funds they need to rebuild their livelihoods. Additionally, while the President touched on the issue, I intend to impress upon the Administration every chance I get that a six month moratorium on deepwater drilling will have damaging effects on the workers tied to this offshore production. The loss of jobs and domestic production we will see with a six month deepwater drilling moratorium is the last thing our recovering economy needs. The President’s bipartisan commission to investigate the disaster and recommend new regulations must carry out their task with immediacy. These new regulations need to be set in place long before the six month moratorium expires to enable the industry to get back to production. As a representative of many of these workers, I will fight to see that this moratorium does not last this long. In meetings with the Mineral Management Service (MMS) and Secretary Salazar, I have consistently emphasized the negative economic impact that the shallow water drilling moratorium has had. In May, Rep. Charles Boustany (R-LA) and I sent a letter to Secretary Salazar cosigned by a bipartisan group of 54 Representatives that was successful in lifting the shallow water drilling moratorium although some permitting issues remain. I continue to work with the Administration to see that these issues are fixed as soon as possible and I will continue to monitor the drilling issues in the Gulf closely. ###
06.16.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) voted for further economic relief for Main Street and expanded investment in small businesses by supporting H.R. 5486, the Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act. The bill was passed in the House with a bipartisan vote of 247-170. “Small businesses continue to be the economic engine of our economy,” Rep. Green said. “As Congress continues our economic recovery efforts, it is vitally important that we support the small businesses across our country in every way we can.” H.R. 5486 will increase the capital gains tax cut for those who invest in small businesses this year and will exclude 100% of capital gains income for stock in small businesses purchased from March 15, 2010 to January 1, 2011. The legislation will also fix a tax shelter disclosure that disproportionately impacts small businesses. Endorsed by the Small Business Council of America, the bill makes penalties for failing to disclose reportable transactions to underlying tax savings. Some businesses were assessed penalties as high as $300,000 for receiving a tax benefit of as little as $15,000. The Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act will also increase the deduction for business start-up expenditures, up to $20,000, and allow more businesses to qualify for the maximum deduction. Entrepreneurs will be permitted to recover more start-up expenses so they can focus more on hiring new workers and growing their businesses. “As small businesses continue to face a lack of credit amid tight lending standards, this bill spurs investment and gives start-up businesses more control to grow and hire new workers,” Rep. Green continued. “As we also look to the fiscal responsibility of the government, the costs of this legislation are paid for by closing tax loopholes in gift rules and limiting biofuel tax credits to fuels that are not highly corrosive.” ###
05.28.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) voted to pass H.R. 4213, American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act. This legislation will help to create or save over a million American jobs by restoring credit to small businesses, extending tax incentives for American research and development and energy, rebuilding the American infrastructure, expanding summer jobs for young Americans, and providing even more tax relief for middle class American families. H.R. 4213 is funded by closing tax loopholes and enforcing corporate accountability by preventing American corporations from sending jobs overseas and making Wall Street investors pay a fair tax on their investments. The bill complies with the statutory pay as you go budget law while also addressing emergency needs like ensuring seniors can keep their own doctors and extending unemployment relief for families. “This legislation will further assist our energy independence and security by providing tax incentives for the production of biodiesel and renewable diesel, gas, propane, biogas and liquid fuels,” Rep. Green said. “This will continue to support our area as the energy capital of the country and the thousands of local jobs connected with the oil and gas industry.” The bill also restores credit flow to small businesses by extending provisions making small business loans more affordable. Up to 30 million homeowners will receive property tax relief and 12 million families will benefit through the State and local sales tax deduction. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO), a nonpartisan agency, has found that extending unemployment programs is one of the most cost-effective and fastest ways to stimulate the economy. Included in the Bill is an extension of emergency unemployment programs through November 30, 2010. “The doctor-patient relationship is extremely important and seniors should be able to keep seeing the doctor of their choice,” Rep. Green continued. “This bill prevents cuts in Medicare physician payments and will ensure that Medicare beneficiaries and military families and retirees enrolled in TRICARE and TRICARE for Life, will continue to have access to their doctors.” The American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act includes provisions supported by over 125 key organizations, unions and non-profits, including the U.S. Conference of Mayors, AARP, the American Farm Bureau, the National Restaurant Association, and businesses in the R&D Tax Credit Coalition. ###
05.28.2010	Washington, DC – Reps. Gene Green (D-TX) and Patrick Kennedy (D-RI) today introduced legislation to reauthorize the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). Established in 1992, SAMHSA is tasked with targeting services to the millions who fail to receive the substance abuse or mental health services they need, and to translate research in these fields into more effective prevention and treatment strategies. “With the passage of the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act in 2008, and the extension of mental health parity protections in this year’s health care reform legislation, we are finally beginning to break down the stigma associated with mental health and substance abuse,” said Kennedy. “Instrumental in these efforts is SAMHSA, assuring the dissemination of evidence-based techniques and strategies for prevention, treatment, and recovery.” “This important piece of legislation will make needed improvements to improve mental health and substance abuse services,” Rep. Green said. “This includes provisions I’ve championed for several years to enhance the ability of community mental health organizations to meet serious mental health and substance abuse needs by authorizing grants for the co-location of primary and specialty care into community-based mental health settings, integrating treatment for mental health and substance abuse co-occurring disorders, expanding tele-psychiatry in medically underserved areas as well as addressing mental health workforce issues. These improvements to current SAMHSA policies will give individuals improved access to mental health and substance abuse services.” Last year, approximately 20 million people failed to receive the substance abuse treatment they needed, and an estimated 10.6 million adults reported an unmet need for mental health care. To accomplish its work, SAMHSA administers a combination of competitive, formula, and block grant programs and data collection activities through the Center for Mental Health Services, the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention,the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment, and the Office of AppliedStudies, which has primary responsibility for the collection, analysis and dissemination of behavioral health data. This legislation will reauthorize and modernize the programs in SAMHSA. “Further, this bill acknowledges that many individuals receive their treatment and recovery services through faith- and community-based organizations,” added Kennedy. “This legislation takes important steps to ensure that those organizations are prohibited from discriminating in employment with their use of Federal funding. I believe this legislation crafts a solution that balances the civil rights protections which I have fought for my entire career with the critical need to expand access to substance abuse and mental health treatment and recovery services. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues and all of the stakeholders as this legislation moves forward.” Kennedy, author of the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act, is co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Addiction, Treatment, and Recovery. ###
05.28.2010	Washington, D.C. – Seniors who fall under the Medicare Part D “donut hole” will soon start to see financial assistance. The recently passed health reform law gradually phases out the donut hole, beginning with a $250 rebate check this year. Seniors who are in the donut hole do not need to do anything to receive the checks and should beware of anyone soliciting personal information. The first batch of rebate checks will be going out on June 10, ahead of the June 15 deadline. “Seniors who fall in the prescription drug coverage gap in Medicare Part D need immediate assistance to get the medication they need,” Rep. Green said. “Health reform includes a great deal of aid for our seniors and I commend Medicare for transitioning out the donut hole ahead of schedule.” This year approximately 4 million seniors and disabled people will receive rebate checks and beginning in 2011, health care reform provides for a 50% discount on brand name drugs for those in the donut hole. The coverage gap will be completely phased out by 2020. ###
05.27.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) released the statement below following an announcement by President Obama announcing a 6 month extension of a deep-water drilling permit moratorium. The moratorium is applicable to all floating rigs at any water depth. These rigs will be asked to drill to a safe point and cap the well. Shallow-water drilling however is done mostly accomplished with jack-up or platform rigs, essentially ending the moratorium on new shallow-water drilling permits. “I am very happy that the President has recognized the necessity of allowing shallow-water drilling to continue. There are many differences in the risks and procedures between shallow-water and deep-water drilling and it is important to our energy security and independence that we remain viable in our domestic production. In the meantime, our efforts should remain to be focused on capping the Deepwater Horizon well and conducting a thorough investigation of what went wrong. Short-term and long-term solutions are needed to stop the oil flow, cleanup the affected area, and prevent another disaster.�? Below is a letter sent May 21, 2010 to Secretary Salazar by a group of 56 Members of Congress led by Rep. Gene Green and Rep. Charles Boustany: The Honorable Kenneth L. Salazar Secretary U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W. – Room 6156 Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Salazar: We write today concerning the moratorium announced by the U.S. Department of Interior on May 6, 2010, which halted the issuance of any new offshore drilling permits by the Minerals Management Service (MMS) in the offshore regions of the United States. We certainly understand and support the need for an in-depth federal investigation into the causes of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, and we look forward to working with you on legislation that appropriately guards against a similar incident ever happening again while ensuring that our domestic producers of all sizes will continue to be able to produce offshore. However, because the date for lifting the drilling permit moratorium remains uncertain, we are concerned that this uncertainty might jeopardize the ongoing long-term viability of the shallow water development of vital oil and natural gas resources. Specifically, we are concerned that there are approximately 57 shallow water rigs currently operating in the Gulf of Mexico, and that as many as 50 of those rigs within the next six weeks will be unable to work if the moratorium is not lifted for shallow water drilling operations. Additionally, at least 5,000 direct jobs from the shallow water rigs alone would be lost in the Gulf Coast region. Shallow water activities throughout the Gulf of Mexico have operated without major incident for decades. Deepwater operations such as those associated with the unfortunate Deepwater Horizon incident involve very different risks and challenges than those for shallow water jackup rigs and other platforms. At the outset, jackup and platform rigs in shallow water (less than 1000 feet in depth) employ “blow-out preventers�? (BOPs) that are positioned above the surface of the water. These surface BOPs are accessible for regular inspection, maintenance and repair, and can be controlled directly or remotely in emergency situations. Shallow water drilling sites also involve predictable and mature reservoirs that predominantly consist of clean natural gas resources. Furthermore, a large percentage of shallow water wells require positive external stimulation to produce the flow of oil or gas, thus significantly limiting the risk of loss of control. Therefore, we respectfully request that next week when you issue your recommendations to the President that you also recommend and allow for the immediate and proper processing and issuance of new shallow water drilling permits for the Gulf of Mexico region. Domestic energy resources are vital to the national security and economic growth of our country and our country requires the safe, effective and steady development of its offshore oil and gas resources. We appreciate your immediate attention to this critically important matter, and please do not hesitate to contact us if we can ever be of any assistance to you. ###
05.21.2010	WASHINGTON D.C. – Representative Gene Green (D-TX) and Representative Charles Boustany, Jr., MD (R-LA) today sent a letter to Interior Secretary Ken Salazar requesting he allow for the immediate and proper processing of shallow water oil and gas production permits. Shallow water production involves less risk than deep water production because blowout preventers are above the water. At least 50 shallow water oil and gas rigs will be unable to continue their work if the moratorium is not specified to deep water production. “While I fully support the in-depth investigation into the Deepwater Horizon spill, domestic energy resources are vital to the national security and economic growth of our country,” Rep. Green stated. “If the moratorium on shallow-water drilling permits remains in place, as many as 50 of the 57 shallow-water rigs currently operating in the Gulf will be unable to work in the very near future. If this happens, thousands of jobs, both upstream and downstream, connected to the oil and natural gas obtained by these rigs will be in jeopardy.” “Shallow water oil and gas production differs greatly from deep water production,” said Boustany. “Secretary Salazar must not cripple the 5,000-plus jobs that rely on shallow water production, which would happen if the permitting process halts those in shallow water.” A bipartisan group of 54 House lawmakers joined Green and Boustany in signing the letter. Green and Boustany wrote: May 20, 2010 The Honorable Kenneth L. SalazarSecretaryU.S. Department of the Interior1849 C Street, N.W. – Room 6156Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Salazar: We write today concerning the moratorium announced by the U.S. Department of Interior on May 6, 2010, which halted the issuance of any new offshore drilling permits by the Minerals Management Service (MMS) in the offshore regions of the United States. We certainly understand and support the need for an in-depth federal investigation into the causes of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, and we look forward to working with you on legislation that appropriately guards against a similar incident ever happening again while ensuring that our domestic producers of all sizes will continue to be able to produce offshore. However, because the date for lifting the drilling permit moratorium remains uncertain, we are concerned that this uncertainty might jeopardize the ongoing long-term viability of the shallow water development of vital oil and natural gas resources. Specifically, we are concerned that there are approximately 57 shallow water rigs currently operating in the Gulf of Mexico, and that as many as 50 of those rigs within the next six weeks will be unable to work if the moratorium is not lifted for shallow water drilling operations. Additionally, at least 5,000 direct jobs from the shallow water rigs alone would be lost in the Gulf Coast region. Shallow water activities throughout the Gulf of Mexico have operated without major incident for decades. Deepwater operations such as those associated with the unfortunate Deepwater Horizon incident involve very different risks and challenges than those for shallow water jackup rigs and other platforms. At the outset, jackup and platform rigs in shallow water (less than 1000 feet in depth) employ “blow-out preventers” (BOPs) that are positioned above the surface of the water. These surface BOPs are accessible for regular inspection, maintenance and repair, and can be controlled directly or remotely in emergency situations. Shallow water drilling sites also involve predictable and mature reservoirs that predominantly consist of clean natural gas resources. Furthermore, a large percentage of shallow water wells require positive external stimulation to produce the flow of oil or gas, thus significantly limiting the risk of loss of control. Therefore, we respectfully request that next week when you issue your recommendations to the President that you also recommend and allow for the immediate and proper processing and issuance of new shallow water drilling permits for the Gulf of Mexico region. Domestic energy resources are vital to the national security and economic growth of our country and our country requires the safe, effective and steady development of its offshore oil and gas resources. We appreciate your immediate attention to this critically important matter, and please do not hesitate to contact us if we can ever be of any assistance to you. ###
05.19.2010	Washington, D.C. – New guidance from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is very good news for the small businesses in the 29th District of Texas which may qualify for significant tax credits under health insurance reform. The Affordable Care Act is providing tax credits, effective beginning in tax year 2010, for millions of American small businesses to help them offer health insurance coverage to their employees – if they choose to do so. The IRS announced a number of details of how the tax credit works, including that the new credit will not be reduced by a state health care tax credit or subsidy except in limited circumstances to prevent abuse, that small businesses can receive the credit for traditional health insurance coverage and for add-on dental, vision, and other limited-scope coverage, and detailed guidance on how a small business can determine eligibility and size of the credit. “Under health reform, small businesses in our area and across the country can get tax credits to cover 35% of premium costs this year and 50% beginning in 2014,” Rep. Green said. “These businesses are not required to provide health insurance, but may choose to do so through the use of these tax credits to retain and recruit the very best workers.” To view more information on the IRS guidance on the Small Business Health Care Tax Credit, please go to: https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/rss_viewer/health_reform_small_business_guidance.pdf
05.18.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) announced a federal grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for the Harris County Flood Control District (HCFCD) in the amount of $3,332,991. The funds are to be used to acquire and demolish 22 homes identified by FEMA’s Severe Repetitive Loss (SRL) program. The Severe Repetitive Loss (SRL) program is designed to reduce flood damages and reduce the use of tax funds for insurance, infrastructure repair, debris removal, road repair, and emergency services for flood victims. The mission of HCFCD is to carry out flood reduction projects and maintain infrastructure to ensure residents of Harris County are safe from flood risk. “This grant will supply the vast majority of funds needed to execute this project,” Rep. Green said. “I am extremely glad and grateful that FEMA recognizes our local need and ongoing desire to keep our residents out of harm’s way.” The properties to be acquired will become subject to FEMA Model Deed restrictions. They will be allowed to revert to their natural state, which provides floodplain storage and keeps local residents out of a dangerous area. “We all know the dangers that can occur with flooding,” Rep. Green continued. “Purchasing these homes will assist in removing threat to residents and contribute their well being while also reducing government expenditures that are associated with flood disasters.”###
05.12.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) today introduced H.R. 5279, the Public Safety Access to Medicare Act of 2010 that would allow firefighters, police officers, and emergency medical personnel who are currently ineligible to buy into Medicare Part A. Public safety employees that were hired on or before March 31, 1986, may not be eligible to buy into Medicare coverage because of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985. This law required workers who began working for state or local government after that date to pay the Medicare Health Insurance tax but didn’t make the tax mandatory for workers hired before that date. “Public safety employees serve their communities and put their own lives at risk every day,” Rep. Green said. “They absolutely deserve access to the best health care without paying exorbitant costs.” Currently, states may provide Medicare coverage for police and firefighters through a cumbersome process called a Section 218 Agreement. In order for this agreement to be adopted, a referendum of all eligible members must be held and approved by majority. If the State is authorized under Section 218 of the Social Security Act, it may alternatively use the divided vote referendum process. “The system currently in place does not allow for these long-serving and valued members of our community to benefit from Medicare Hospital Insurance that some of their colleagues may be eligible for,” Rep. Green continued. “It is our duty to make certain that all public safety employees are given equal and exceptional health care.” The Public Safety Access to Medicare Act of 2010 will make public safety employees or retirees eligible to opt-in to premium-free Medicare Part A. A qualified employee may elect to be covered by the Medicare HI payroll tax at any time during active employment.###
05.10.2010	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) urged the Chairman of the Committee on Ways & Means, Rep. Sander Levin (MI-12), to include the extension of the biodiesel and renewable diesel excise tax credits in the final tax extenders package. In a bipartisan letter sent May 5, 2010, Rep. Green asked for the credit, an offset of excise tax liability paid by retail sellers of gasoline and diesel fuel and included in both the House and Senate versions of the bill, to ensure that biodiesel prices remain competitive with conventional diesel. The letter was co-signed by Rep. Al Green (TX-09), Rep. Charlie Gonzalez (TX-20), Rep. Ciro Rodriguez (TX-23), Rep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Rep. Chet Edwards (TX-17), Rep. Silvestre Reyes (TX-16), Rep. Solomon Ortiz (TX-27), and Rep. Joe Barton (TX-06). “This tax credit will not only save jobs in our district, but across the country,” Rep. Green said. “In our area alone, Green Hunter, Organic Fuels, and Green Earth Fuels of Houston have been forced to close.” According to the National Biodiesel Board, the nation will lose 23,000 jobs in addition to the 29,000 jobs lost in 2009 if the tax credit is not extended. As a critical component of the nation’s green economy, the biodiesel industry supports over 50,000 jobs with Texas being the number one biodiesel producing state in the nation with a production capacity estimated at 726 million gallons a year. “With tax revenue of $866 million and $4.2 billion added to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product in 2008, we literally can’t afford to let the industry suffer more than it already has,” Rep. Green continued. “This growing green industry reduces our dependence on foreign oil and helps to reduce carbon emissions.” The extension of the excise tax credits has received bipartisan support in the House and Senate and is supported by the National Biodiesel Board and the Biodiesel Coalition of Texas. ###
05.07.2010	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement in response to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) announcement of proposed regulations over broadband services: “While I have always supported an open internet, I have serious concerns with the FCC taking such a major action as reclassifying broadband as a Title 2 service without Congressional direction. I have similar concerns about the EPA regulating carbon emissions and have opposed their effort to do so. Efforts to rewrite the regulatory structure of an entire industry in such a major way should be the job of Congress.” ###
05.06.2010	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) voted in favor of H.R. 5019, the Home Star Energy Retrofit Act. The program was passed today and will create jobs, save energy, and lower families’ energy bills. Home Star is a program designed to spur energy focused home remodels by providing rebates to homeowners who install energy-saving products, including insulation, windows, doors, and heating systems. The authorization of this program will have three major benefits: getting money back to homeowners by providing them tax rebates and saving money on their energy bills, provide America with another step to energy independence by saving valuable resources, and giving a boost to the construction industry that is currently suffering a 25% unemployment by supporting and creating jobs that cannot be sent overseas. “Home Star will continue the effort to bring jobs to Americans,” Rep. Green said. “This program will create approximately 168,000 more jobs in the construction and manufacturing sectors, while promoting American-made goods and services.” There are two tracks to the program that will provide long- and short-term benefits. The Silver Star program will provide up-front rebates of up to $3,000 for the installation of specific technologies. The Gold Star program rewards a comprehensive energy audit with a $3,000 rebate for measures that reduce energy by 20% and up to $8,000 when additional energy savings are achieved. “These immediate incentives are crucial to clean energy jobs and reducing our dependence on foreign oil,” Rep. Green continued. “With the aid of Home Star, we will cut the use of natural gas and home heating oil equivalent to almost 7 million barrels of oil in 2011 alone.” ###
04.29.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) introduced H.R. 5169 the Event Data Recorder Enhancement Act. The legislation will direct the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to require a phase in of Event Data Recorders (EDRs) in all new vehicles. Event Data Recorders are commonly known as black boxes that record certain, specific information such as vehicle speed, change in forward speed, status of airbags, and whether or not safety belts are engaged. They provide information that cannot be obtained through traditional investigation techniques and may be useful in determining if a particular driver was at fault in an accident or if a widespread malfunction is possible. Vehicle EDRs are also different from those used in airplanes in that they do not record extended periods or history and have a limited and constantly updating memory. “As we’ve seen recently, EDRs are invaluable in assisting manufacturers and proper authorities in the event of widespread malfunction,” Rep. Green said. “If a vehicle recall is needed, swift and targeted action is necessary in the interest of consumer protection.” Some auto manufacturers are already including EDRs in their new cars and trucks and have been for the past decade. H.R. 5169 will require NHTSA to create a standard for accessing data to assist NHTSA investigators in easing problems created without that uniformity. The legislation also allows for a phase in period assisting manufacturers with the transition. Beginning in 2013, 25% of the fleet must have EDRs, 65% in 2014, and 100% in 2015. H.R. 5169 also requires notice of the device in the vehicle’s owners manual and only allows access under 3 conditions: court authorized retrieval, owner’s consent, or for the purpose improving vehicle safety by a government safety official. The data will not be monitored, but accessed in the event of an accident or malfunction. “This bill will not only support vehicle safety on a large, industry-wide scale, it also will enable resolution to individual accidents on a local scale,” Rep. Green continued. “It is our hope to reduce the number and frequency of avoidable accidents with this consumer safety legislation.” ###
04.27.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) introduced the Buffalo Bayou National Heritage Area Act to designate Buffalo Bayou in Harris County, Texas as a National Heritage Area. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) introduced the companion legislation in the Senate. Buffalo Bayou stretches from central Houston to Galveston Bay and when passed, H.R. 5144/S. 3261 will designate the 25-mile stretch of the Houston Ship Channel as the first National Heritage Area in Texas. This designation will allow up to $1 million annually for 10 years to the area and provide the tourism benefits of federal recognition without restriction on land or commerce. “We have seen wide support from public community and private industry for this distinction,” Rep. Green said. “There isn’t a more fitting place in Texas to receive the honor of being the first National Heritage Area in the state.” Rep. Green and Sen. Hutchison originally introduced the Buffalo Bayou National Heritage Study Act, passed in 2002, which directed the Department of the Interior to undertake a study evaluating the area against 8 criteria. The National Park Service has just released the 135-page report assessing the area. The study found that the proposed Buffalo Bayou National Heritage Area in Texas is eligible for National Heritage Area designation and the heritage area status would enhance as well as promote the national significance of this historic waterway. “I wish to commend Congressman Gene Green for his leadership and dedication to the Buffalo Bayou, which led to the U.S. Department of Interior determining that the area met the criteria needed for National Heritage Area designation,” Sen. Hutchison stated. “The Buffalo Bayou has played an important role in the development of Texas, helping Houston become the fourth largest city in the United States.” Buffalo Bayou has a long history of significance for the area and the state. It was initially a point of Texas settlement and then the location for the Battle of San Jacinto, where Texas won its independence from Mexico in 1836. Since, Buffalo Bayou has sustained the growth of East Harris County and the development of the economic powerhouses of energy and petrochemical industries. The NPS report describes the Bayou as a vital artery for the area supporting oil refining, petrochemical production, and commercial trade. The NPS report is available for public comment until 5/21/10 and may be viewed here: https://parkplanning.nps.gov/document.cfm?parkID=73&projectId=16830&documentID=33323 ###
04.22.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement regarding Veterans Affairs new employee hiring: “When Congress passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, our goal was to stimulate the economy in a lasting and long-term way by investing in new jobs, infrastructure, and providing tax benefits to families and small businesses. Over a year after the passage of the Recovery Act, about 2.5 million jobs have been created or saved, income in the last 3 quarters of 2009 is above 2008 levels, tax refunds are up 10%, and only half of the Recovery Act has been used. I’m happy to see the Houston VA regional benefits office receiving very much needed funds to help in the assistance of the honored veterans of our area. These additional permanent employees will ensure veterans receive prompt attention and benefits.” Department of Veterans Affairs Release: FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEApril 14, 2010 VA Jobs Boost Local EconomyHouston Office Uses Recovery Funds to Improve Services to VeteransHOUSTON -- The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and its Houston VA regional benefits office are putting Americans directly to work with funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.The Houston VA regional office was authorized to hire 51 new employees to assist with processing Veterans’ claims for VA benefits. The new jobs came from federal dollars allocated under the Recovery Act, enacted by Congress in February 2009.“Additional staff will help us to improve the quality of service provided to our Houston-area Veterans,” said VA Assistant Regional Office Director Darryl Brady. “Houston is fortunate to have these additional employees, who are already making a difference.”The new hires are involved in administrative work supporting the professional adjudicators who make compensation, pension or education decisions, or process changes in Veterans’ benefits. VA expects the additional staffing will help to deliver Veterans their benefits as quickly as possible.The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided $150 million for the program to hire and train the new staffers. Nationally, VA has put 2,300 people to work in benefits offices including 500 new staff members hired as permanent employees.While Recovery Act funding for the term employees will expire in September 2010, the 2011 President's budget includes funds to retain or replace these employees on a permanent basis and to hire more than 2,000 additional new processors.In addition to bolstering the benefits office staffing, the law is funding more than $1 billion of improvements at VA medical centers and national cemeteries around the country.More information about VA benefits is available at www.va.gov or Veterans may contact one of VA's Call Center representatives at 1-800-827-1000. ###
04.22.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) congratulated the Denver Harbor Community Health Center on receiving a Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) grant in the amount of $517,154. The grant is provided for the renewal of Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) designation and will allow Denver Harbor to continue to provide services to the underserved population in the area. “I’m so proud that the Denver Harbor Clinic has received the vital funds that it needs and deserves to continue serving the underserved,” Rep. Green said. “In the past decade, community health centers have become a vital part of health care delivery for our area.” Denver Harbor Community Health Center is located in an area with a largely Hispanic population and provides health services to low-income residents. Rep. Green sent a letter to Houston Community Health Centers expressing support for renewal funding and commending the organization for its work ensuring access to care for the medically underserved. “A wide array of supporters has rallied around the clinic to do what they can to maintain and grow the clinic’s effect,” Rep. Green continued. “This funding will guarantee that those who need affordable care most will continue to have access.” The requirements for FQHC designation include that the clinic must take the community and population that it serves into direct consideration to design appropriate health programs. Denver Harbor Community Health Center opened in 1999 in a temporary facility for only 6 hours a week and has since grown to serve 46% of the community with 19,744 patient visits in 2009. The center provides a variety of medical, dental, and mental health services and is the home to Methodist Hospital’s Family Medicine Residency Program with 12 family medicine residents and 3 full-time faculty. ###
04.21.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) today commended a study released by the National Park Service (NPS) concluding that Buffalo Bayou is eligible for the designation of National Heritage Area (NHA). Buffalo Bayou runs from central Houston and along the Houston Ship Channel to Galveston Bay. Rep. Green introduced the Buffalo Bayou National Heritage Study Act, passed in 2002, that directed the Department of the Interior to undertake a study evaluating 8 criteria which must be met for a National Heritage Area distinction. The 135-page report that was just completed concludes that Buffalo Bayou successfully meets the criteria, including the presence of national, historic, and cultural resources that reflect traditions, customs, beliefs, and folk life valuable to America’s national story. “I’m extremely happy that the National Park Service came to the same conclusion that we in Houston already know, that the significance of Buffalo Bayou cannot be understated in the history of Houston, of Texas, and of the nation,” Rep. Green stated. The NPS report describes the Bayou as an important artery currently supporting oil refining, petrochemical production, and commercial trade. It also sustained the growth of Baytown and the development of Houston’s economic powerhouses of energy and petrochemical industries. But the significance of Buffalo Bayou began in early Texas history as a focal point of settlement and then as the location of the Battle of San Jacinto, where Texas won its independence in 1836. “Today, Buffalo Bayou has enabled our area to become the energy capital of the world and the Port of Houston to become the busiest port in the United States,” Rep. Green continued. “It is not only essential to the economy of Texas, but a cultural centerpiece.” Rep. Green is currently moving into the final stages of the NHA process by drafting legislation to officially designate Buffalo Bayou as a National Heritage Area. If approved by Congress, Buffalo Bayou will be the first National Heritage Area in the State of Texas. Once the legislation is authorized, the Buffalo Bayou National Heritage Area can receive up to $1 million annually for 10 years. The Buffalo Bayou National Heritage Area plan has received wide support from area organizations. It is a unique opportunity for industry and community to come together and highlight rare historic aspects. The distinction will allow tourism benefits of federal recognition without restriction on land or commerce. The National Park Service study will be available for review and public comment for 30 days until May 21, 2010. To view the NPS study, please go to: https://parkplanning.nps.gov/document.cfm?parkID=73&projectId=16830&documentID=33323 ###
04.21.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) gave the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives in recognition of San Jacinto Day: “Mr. Speaker, on April 21, 1836, 174 years ago today, Texas forces led by General Sam Houston dealt a decisive blow to General Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna and his oppressive government. Several weeks after the signing of the Texas Declaration of Independence in March of 1836, roughly 900 members of the Texan army overpowered a much larger Mexican army in a surprise attack. Some 700 Mexican soldiers were killed and 730 captured, while nine Texans died. The Texas army quickly and silently moved toward Santa Anna's camp. They were able to get very close because General Santa Ann was still pleased with his victory at the Alamo and failed to post men to watch the Texans’ actions. At close range, the ‘Twin Sisters’ drawn by rawhide thongs, were wheeled into position and to begin unloading shells at the napping Mexican Army. These cannons were gifts from the people of Cincinnati, Ohio. Texas soldiers followed the bombardment and yelled and shouted ‘Remember the Alamo’ and ‘Remember Goliad’ stopping only a few yards from the Mexican soldiers to open fire in a surprise attack. The Mexican soldiers were better trained than their Texas opponents. They were caught off guard. It was a bold attack in broad daylight. Texas General Sam Houston, former Member of this Congress from Tennessee, future President of the Republic of Texas, future U.S. Senator and Governor of Texas, had two horses shot out from under him and was shot and his ankle was shattered. Santa Anna was captured that day and held prisoner and signed peace treaties to give Texas independence. The battle is memorialized along the San Jacinto River with a monument in our district in La Porte, Texas. A panel on the side of the monument states: ‘Measured by its results, San Jacinto was one of the decisive battles of the world. The freedom of Texas from Mexico won here led to annexation and to the Mexican War, resulting in the acquisition by the United States of the States of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada, California, Utah, and parts of Colorado, Wyoming, Kansas and Oklahoma. Almost one-third of the present area of the American nation, nearly a million square miles of territory, changed sovereignty.’ That’s what we’re commemorating today.”
04.20.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) urged constituents to remain on the lookout of possible scam artists looking to take advantage of the recently passed health insurance reform. Recent reports of health insurance fraud have prompted a quick response from Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius. “Our district will see huge benefits in the near future and the years to come with the passage of health care reform,” Rep. Green said. “As the transition to new insurance regulations take place, it is extremely important that people educate themselves on the law to protect against possible criminal abuse.” There will be almost immediate benefits to the passage of the Affordable Health Care for America Act and the Reconciliation Act of 2010. They include new consumer protections against insurance companies and the expansion of a high-risk pool program for those who were previously denied coverage due to pre-existing conditions. By the definition of the reform, these benefits are permanent and as the built-in industry transition progresses, more advantages and assistance for the American people will become available. Secretary Sebelius issued a letter to the states’ Attorneys General and Insurance Commissioners making them aware of the situation and advocating swift and strong prosecutions in the matter. Secretary Sebelius also stated that the Senior Medicare Patrol teams and the Health Care Fraud Prevention & Enforcement Action Teams are monitoring the developments. “Any plan that is sold as a limited time offer or as limited enrollment period as a result of health reform is a fraud,” Rep. Green continued. “If there is any question, I urge constituents to investigate the company and plan offered. Our website is continually updated with health reform resources and our office is always happy to help.” ###
04.15.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s speech at Kennedy Space Center: “Since taking office over a year ago, President Obama has shown leadership on many fronts. Unfortunately, the Johnson Space Center is not one. This is a fierce economic engine to our area supporting 7,000 direct jobs. If his proposed budget succeeds in canceling the Constellation program, our area will backslide in the great progress we’ve made in bouncing back from the recession. Additionally, the President has announced his intention to select a high-level team of senior officials to develop a plan for regional economic growth surrounding the Kennedy Space Center and to transition and retrain dislocated shuttle workers on the Florida space coast. As a Member of Congress and a fellow Democrat, I find it unacceptable that the President hasn’t developed the same plan for the other 9 NASA centers. I call on the President to come to the Johnson Space Center and address how he plans to confront these economic and workforce issues. Finally, experts believe that a heavy lift exploration system would be fully operational within 6 years by allocating funds under the President’s FY11 budget request using the heavy lift vehicle development account and exploration research and development. This could be accomplished by transitioning current Ares contracts to a modified vehicle. The President’s commitment to make a decision on a heavy lift vehicle in 2015 isn’t sufficient when we can begin production now and protect our area from a loss of thousands of jobs.” ###
04.12.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green, with the passage of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, continued to support young Americans and students. The law is the largest investment in student aid in history, while also working to reduce the deficit. It strengthens the Pell Grant program, invests in community colleges, extends support for historically black colleges and minority serving institutions, and helps student borrowers manage their student loan debt. “In an increasingly competitive economy, higher education is the key to unlocking opportunity and securing higher paying jobs,” Rep. Green said. “An educated workforce is a productive workforce.” By 2017, with an investment of more than $40 billion, the maximum Pell Grant award is expected to be $5,975. The value of the grant had been shrinking; in 1977 it paid 75% of college costs and only 33% on 2009. The 29th District of Texas will receive nearly $65 million and nearly $2.5 billion for the State of Texas over 10 years for the Pell Grant investment. Student loan repayments will be made more affordable by allowing new borrowers starting in 2014 to cap student loan payments at 10% of discretionary income, down from 15%, and balances will be forgiven after 20 years, down from 25 years. In addition, all school loans will be switched to the Direct Loan program, directing the money to the students instead of diverting through banks and paying subsidies. This change will save the government $61 billion over the next 10 years. Students will also benefit from lowered interest rates on Stafford, need-based, loans from 4.5% in the 2010-2011 school year to 3.4% on the 2011-2012 school year. “Many students in our district are dependent on federal assistance to allow them the chance to complete their education,” Rep. Green continued. “With education costs continuing to rise, it was essential for student aid reform to assist them in loan repayment so that student loan debt doesn’t limit prospects after graduation.” Community colleges will receive $500 million a year for the next four years, giving all students access to high-quality, low-cost higher education. Additionally, a $3 billion investment in historically black colleges and minority-serving institutions will restore and expand programs that give students the support they require to stay in school and complete their education. Texas alone will receive over $307 million. The law also encourages students to go into teaching by providing tuition assistance and loan forgiveness. ###
03.26.2010	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Gene Green encouraged all Texans to take advantage of numerous tax cuts in the Recovery Act. With only half of taxpayers having filed thus far, tax refunds are already up nearly 10% from last year – thanks to a broad array of tax cuts in the Recovery Act. “Most people don’t realize that tax cuts are the biggest individual piece of the Recovery Act,” said Rep. Green. “Congress gave 95% of working Americans one of the largest tax cuts in history through the Recovery Act. And as you file your 2009 income taxes, you may qualify for a series of other generous tax cuts – for example, you could save money for attending college, making energy-saving home improvements, purchasing a home for the first time, or buying a new car. I encourage all the residents of the TX-29 to take advantage of these and other tax cuts as they are filing their 2009 taxes over the coming weeks.” Taxpayers in the 29th District of Texas and across the country can claim a variety of benefits on their 2009 tax returns, including: The Making Work Pay tax credit – Ninety-five percent of working families are already receiving the Recovery Act’s Making Work Pay tax credit of $400 for an individual or $800 for married couples filing jointly in their 2009 paychecks – and will continue to see these benefits in 2010. In TX-29, 215,000 families are benefiting from the Making Work Pay tax credit. Tax credits for college expenses – Families and students are eligible for up to $2,500 in tax savings under the American Opportunity Credit as well as enhanced benefits under 529 college savings plans, which help families and students pay for college expenses. The First Time Homebuyers tax credit – First time homebuyers can get a credit of up to $8,000 for homes purchased by April 30, 2010 under the First Time Homebuyer tax credit. In Texas, 161,911 households have already taken advantage of the First Time Homebuyers tax credit. Tax credits for energy efficient renovations – Taxpayers are eligible for up to $1,500 in tax credits for making energy-efficient improvements to their homes, such as adding insulation and installing energy efficient windows. The vehicle sales tax deduction – Taxpayers can deduct the state and local sales taxes they paid for new vehicles purchased from Feb. 17, 2009 through Dec. 31, 2009 under the vehicle sales tax deduction. Expanded family tax credits – Moderate income families with children may be eligible for an increase in the Earned Income Tax Credit and the additional Child Tax Credit. Tax-free unemployment benefits – Thanks to the Recovery Act, individuals who received unemployment insurance in 2009 do not have to pay taxes on the first $2,400 of such earnings. “In January 2009, our economy was in freefall, losing nearly 800,000 jobs a month, cutting into Americans’ retirement savings and freezing lending to small businesses,” said Rep. Green. “We passed the Recovery Act and were able to save and create more than two million jobs in the first year of a two-year effort. We still have a long way to go to put more Americans back to work, but we are moving in the right direction. And in the meantime, these tax cuts will ease the burden on American families who are struggling to make ends meet.” ###
03.24.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green, Chairman Henry Waxman, and Chairman Edward Markey today sent a letter to Chairman David Obey and Ranking Member Jerry Lewis of the Committee on Appropriations. They are requesting the inclusion of funds within any Fiscal Year 2010 Supplemental Appropriations bill to establish a new regional office of the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (CSB) in the Houston-area. The letter requesting the new regional office in the Houston-area is in response to the increasing number of chemical accidents in Texas and across the region. Currently, the CSB has insufficient resources and is straining to respond to these incidents. In 2009 only 15 of 237 high consequence chemical accidents received a CSB investigation team. “Our area is home to the largest petrochemical complex in the country,” Rep. Green stated. “We’ve built a strong economy on these industries, but we also have greater responsibility to ensure the safety of our workers and residents.” Currently, investigative teams are deployed from Washington, D.C. However with the establishment of a Houston office, chemical accidents in the region could be responded to with greater speed and localized knowledge and experience. Since 1998, Texas was the site of 20% of chemical accidents investigated by the CSB, many within a 500-mile radius of Houston. “With a Houston regional CSB office, workload on all the investigative teams will be alleviated to allow the CSB to continue to conduct timely investigations and provide recommendations to prevent future accidents,” Rep. Green said. ###
03.21.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green voted in support of H.R. 3590, The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and H.R. 4872, The Reconciliation Act of 2010. Rep. Green released the following statement in support of the legislation: “While no bill is perfect, my greatest concern is ensuring that the people of our district have greater access to healthcare. Your health care decisions shouldn’t be made by the government or by an insurance company. Your health care decisions should be made by you. This bill expands coverage to 30 million U.S. citizens including 223,500 in our district. This is middle-of-the-road legislation that builds on the private insurance system that we current have. This is also a market-based approach, not a government takeover or government option, that utilizes insurance exchanges to pool individuals together – who don’t have employer-based insurance and would otherwise be on their own to secure insurance – in order to reduce exorbitant premiums. The legislation includes significant consumer protections and improves Medicare benefits for 56,000 seniors in our district. In addition 217,000 residents in our district will receive improved employer-based coverage, 34,500 residents will no longer be denied coverage for pre-existing conditions and no one will be denied coverage because of health status or gender. The time for health reform has come and these benefits to our district are essential.” ###
03.18.2010	Washington, DC – Houston Mayor Annise Parker (D), and Reps. Gene Green (D), Pete Olson (R), Sheila Jackson Lee (D), Kevin Brady (R), John Culberson (R), Al Green (D), Michael McCaul (R), and Ted Poe (R) today joined together in a bipartisan effort to express unified support for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NASA) Constellation program. The President’s FY2011 budget would kill the Constellation program, placing America’s ability to send humans in to space in jeopardy and place thousands of jobs at Johnson Space Center (JSC) and across the nation in jeopardy. Mayor Annise Parker said, “While I am pleased we have begun the discussion, many questions remain unanswered and I continue to have serious concerns about the future of human space flight and the role JSC will play under the administration's proposed NASA budget." Rep. Gene Green said, “Given our current economic downturn, we cannot take the possibility of an additional 20,000 - 30,000 national job losses lightly. Our government has already invested literally years and billions of dollars into this program. We should build upon these investments and not abandon them.” Rep. Pete Olson said, “Constellation was overwhelmingly approved by both Republican and Democratic controlled Congresses precisely because human space flight is such an intrinsic component of American exceptionalism. It is also critical to our ability to remain competitive globally in the fields of science and technology. I am proud to stand shoulder to shoulder with my Houston colleagues to make the case for the national value and benefits of the investment in Constellation.” Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee said, “NASA’s Constellation Program is vital to maintaining America’s leadership role in human space exploration, creating jobs, and boosting the economy. Continuation of NASA’s Constellation Program is crucial to improving national security, climate, and research in science and medicine. That is why I introduced legislation March 9 to ensure that all Constellation space flight activities continue through 2016 and that we designate NASA as a national security interest and asset.” Rep. Kevin Brady said, “NASA technologies like the Constellation Program are fundamental to the Greater Houston area not just for jobs but also for technology development. If this program is scrapped we will see an immediate job loss at a time when the Houston area needs to be creating jobs, not killing them.” Rep. John Culberson said, “The Constellation Program is the best program to keep our country at the forefront of space exploration. I am strongly opposed to the president’s proposal because yielding the high ground in space will make America less competitive and put our space program at risk.” Rep. Al Green said, “The ‘Constellation Program’ is a shovel ready jobs program. This program’s cancellation would not only have a negative effect on Houston’s economy, but also on the national economy. In Houston, by some estimates, 10,000 direct and indirect jobs could be lost, in addition to 20,000 to 30,000 jobs nationwide. We need to invest in these jobs as our nation continues to fight for the stability of its job market.”Rep. Michael McCaul said, “Every president since Washington has had a wish list but in the United States it's the Congress that writes the budget. We have growing bipartisan support and we intend to make sure human space flight and exploration remains the core mission of America's space program." Rep. Ted Poe said, “Giving up on our space program will not only devastate our local economy and the engineering and aerospace industries, but will be a crippling blow to our national psyche. ‘Houston’ was the first word heard on the moon, not ‘Moscow,’ not ‘Beijing.’ NASA is America’s legacy – Houston’s legacy.” ###
03.17.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Gene Green announced his support of including a plan to benefit our nation’s seniors in reforming the nation’s broken health insurance system. The legislation will close the “donut hole” to lower seniors’ prescription drug costs, and improve the coordination and quality of care. Home and community-based services will be expanded to keep people in their homes instead of nursing homes and stop the worst insurance abuses, such as denying coverage to children because of pre-existing conditions. “A top priority of mine is to give greater security and stability for the seniors of our area and across the nation,” Rep. Green stated. “Passing reform will benefit seniors by reducing costs, improving the quality of care, and ensure Medicare will be around for years to come.” The legislation will fully protect Medicare benefits and cut the waste, fraud, and abuse throughout the program but never the benefits. It targets overpayments to insurance companies to redirect those funds to improve benefits for everyone. “Medicare was created in 1965 and has since been essential for seniors across the country,” Rep. Green continued. “I am working to protect those benefits and improve the program for all seniors.” When the bill is signed into law, seniors will immediate see relief from high prescription prices. Medicare beneficiaries who hit the donut hole will receive a $250 rebate to make prescription drugs more affordable. It also requires communication between Medicare and insurance companies to provide preventative services, such as certain immunizations and screenings, free of charge. “Preventative care lowers costs by finding possible health issues before they become expensive and life-threatening problems. This is how we ensure our families live long and healthy lives,” Rep. Green said. “I want to make health care more affordable and hold insurance companies accountable to give decision-making power back to American families and small businesses.” ###
03.11.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Gene Green cosponsored legislation to suspend for two years potential Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) greenhouse gas regulations from stationary sources to give Congress time to enact comprehensive energy legislation. “Today I took important action to protect Texas industries and jobs as we move toward a clean energy economy,” Green said. “The U.S. Congress, not EPA, should develop energy policies that have far-reaching implications for consumers, chemical manufacturers, refiners, and other energy-intensive industries. This legislation calls for a ‘time-out’ from EPA regulations from stationary sources so elected representatives, not federal bureaucrats, can craft legislation to protect our environment and economy.” Rep. Green cosponsored H.R. 4753, the Stationary Source Regulations Delay Act, which directs that for two years after enactment, the EPA can take no regulatory action and that no stationary source shall be subject to any requirement to obtain a permit or meet a New Source Performance Standard under the Clean Air Act with respect to carbon dioxide or methane. The bill, however, does permit EPA to move forward with its consensus-based light-duty vehicle emissions standards that are expected to eliminate 950 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions and save 1.8 billion barrels of oil consumption. “While the EPA is responding to a decision by the Supreme Court that found greenhouse gases are a pollutant, the EPA is not equipped to take into account the economic impact of these carbon regulations, nor can it take into account the unique needs of consumers or the energy and chemical industries,” Green continued. “Our region requires a thoughtful, comprehensive energy policy developed by Congress that keeps our local industries competitive and does not disadvantage areas of the country that rely on oil and natural gas.” In April 2007, the Supreme Court held in Massachusetts v. EPA that the Clean Air Act definition of “air pollutants” includes greenhouse gas emissions. The EPA was therefore charged to determine whether greenhouse gas emissions endanger the public health or welfare. In December 2009, the EPA published its final rule concluding that these emissions are “anticipated both to endanger public health and to endanger public welfare.” The endangerment finding obligates the EPA to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act. Once greenhouse gases are "subject to regulation" under the Clean Air Act, the EPA will also be required to regulate stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions. ###
03.05.2010	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) spoke out in strong support of the oil and gas industry and of the Constellation program before the members of the House Committee on the Budget on Wednesday, March 3, 2010. The Fiscal Year 2011 Budget resolution proposes tax increases for America’s natural gas and oil industry, and cuts NASA’s Constellation Program. “Our area is greatly dependent on the stability and survival of the oil and gas industry,” Rep. Green said. “Our economic viability is connected to making sure we do what we can to support our global role in energy production, especially as we move to decrease our reliance on foreign sources of energy while being more conscious of our impact on the environment.” Rep. Gene Green also testified to the impact that the proposed cut to the Constellation Program might have on the Houston-area. The Constellation Program is responsible for America’s leading role in human space exploration. If cut the Johnson Space Center in Houston, which has management over Constellation, could lose thousands of direct high-tech jobs and thousands more jobs indirectly connected to the program. “In the current state of our economy, our area cannot afford to have Constellation cut,” Rep Green continued. “We cannot ignore the importance of the program and the advancements it has given to the field of human space exploration.” Rep. Green’s Statement to the Committee on the Budget: “Chairman Spratt, Ranking Member Ryan and Members of the Committee: I am pleased to be here today to provide my views on the Fiscal Year 2011 Budget Resolution. This committee is faced with many difficult choices as it crafts this year’s congressional budget. Democrats and Republicans must work together to produce a budget that simultaneously helps meet our economic, health care, energy, and social challenges. ENERGY PROVISIONS Unfortunately, the President’s budget again includes several tax increases aimed at America’s natural gas and oil industry. Without increasing supply from our vast North American natural gas resources, or if we make it more expensive or difficult to produce natural gas domestically, it will actually hinder our ability to meet any potential climate change goals while also increasing natural gas prices for American consumers and business. Any climate change policy will inevitably rely on clean natural gas – which emits half the carbon dioxide emissions of coal – as a short-term “bridge” fuel while our economy transforms to lower-carbon energy sources. Natural gas is also required to make energy-efficient products, make wind turbine blades and solar panels, provide back-up power for intermittent renewable energy sources, and to run biomass facilities. Most importantly, now is not the time to weaken economic opportunities in our domestic energy industry with punitive tax hikes. America’s independent producers are responsible for 90% of the wells drilled in America, and they produce 82% of American natural gas and 68% of American oil. The average independent producer company has 12 employees – the definition of a true small business. Increasing costs on the energy industry and on U.S. companies operating abroad will jeopardize these small business jobs, export production overseas, and increase our reliance on foreign sources of energy. NASA Additionally, Mr. Chairman, I have concerns about the Administration’s proposal to cancel NASA’s Constellation Program, which includes the Orion Crew Capsule, the Altair Lunar Lander, and the Ares I and Ares V rockets. These programs, which together comprise our human spaceflight program, were authorized in both 2005 and 2008 by Republican and Democratic Congresses respectively. It is under the Constellation program, that NASA is currently developing new launch vehicles and spacecraft capable of travel to the moon, Mars and other destinations. Not only does cancelling the Constellation Program jeopardize America’s leadership role in human space exploration, but it will have detrimental effects on our economy. Take, for example, the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. The Johnson Space Center has the lead to manage the Constellation Program and several of its major elements, including the Orion Crew Exploration Vehicle and the Altair Lunar Lander. Without Constellation, the Johnson Space Center could lose anywhere from 4,000 to 7,000 high]tech jobs. If the JSC loses 4,000 direct jobs, an additional 2,315 indirect jobs would be lost, totaling 6,315; loss of income and expenditures locally would be over $567 million. If the JSC loses 7,000 direct jobs, an additional 4,052 indirect jobs would be lost, totaling 11,052; loss of income and expenditures locally would total almost $1 billion. Additionally, the aerospace industry would lose as many as 20,000 – 30,000 jobs nationally in either of these scenarios. Given our current economic downturn, we cannot take the possibility of these job losses lightly and the Johnson Space Center is just one example of what the cancellation of this program would do to other NASA centers nationally. Finally, it will take years for the commercial spaceflight industry to get up to speed to reach the level of competence that exists at NASA today. Our government has already invested literally years and billions of dollars into this program. We should build upon these investments and not abandon them. Our country can support the commercial spaceflight industry, but not at the expense of our human spaceflight program, which for years has inspired future generations and driven technology that enhances our quality of life. That is why it is my hope, Mr. Chairman, this Committee and this Congress will continue to support NASA’s Constellation Program and to support balanced energy policies that promote economic growth and will help us meet our clean energy goals. Thank you.” ###
03.04.2010	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) voted in favor of creating hundreds of thousands of new jobs this year. The bipartisan bill, H.R. 2847 the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act, passed in the House today. Included in the bill is a payroll tax holiday for business that hire unemployed workers, an income tax credit of $1,000 for businesses that retain these employees, and tax cuts to spur new investment by small businesses to invest, expand, and hire workers. It also includes extension of the Highway Trust Fund for billions of dollars in infrastructure investment, and provisions to make it easier for states to borrow for infrastructure projects, such as school construction and energy. “My priority is getting the unemployed of our area back to work without leaving a huge bill for the next generation,” said Rep. Green. “This bipartisan bill continues our ongoing efforts to create jobs and get our economy back to where it needs to be.” The HIRE Act passed the Senate last week and passed in the House after some modest changes were made to ensure the bill is fully paid for, ensure that small businesses can take advantage of the payroll tax holiday, increase the bond subsidy for cash-strapped states, and continue requirements ensuring a portion of the highway and transit funding goes to minority-owned businesses. “We need to get as many Americans back to work as quickly as possible and this bill is a move to that goal,” Rep. Green continued. “The HIRE Act makes key investments in small business and infrastructure development to create new jobs and get the people of our area working.”
02.26.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) announced plans to introduce legislation in the near future that will direct the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to mandate Electronic Data Recorders on all new cars and trucks. The legislation will regulate a uniform minimum standard of information to be recorded on pre- and post-crash data. Electronic Data Recorders (EDRs), also commonly known as black boxes, record certain specific information such as vehicle speed, change in forward speed, status of airbags, and whether safety belts are engaged. EDRs provide information that cannot be obtained through traditional investigation techniques and may be useful in determining if a particular driver was at fault in an accident. “Electronic Data Recorders are necessary tools to assist in crash reconstruction and to describe specific crash characteristics,” Rep. Green stated. “This information is essential to ensure consumers are being properly protected in their vehicles and to improve future consumer safety systems.” Rep. Green’s legislation, in addition to setting a uniform standard of vehicle criteria, will require a standardized EDR download tool, require accessibility by law enforcement, crash investigators, and emergency services, and require data reporting to NHTSA. Consumer privacy will be protected by restricted access of the information to official requests, where the law requires it, the request of the vehicle owner, or in connection with litigation. The idea for this bill stems in part from a recent Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation (O&I) hearing on the Toyota vehicle recalls. “As we witnessed in the Toyota hearing, there is a demonstrated need of detailed crash information,” Rep. Green said, “it is clear from the testimony, there can be a discrepancy in what a driver claims happened and what NHTSA concludes happened. This would mandate equipment that would remove any human emotion or bias to provide much more precise data.” As a member of both O&I and the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection (CTCP), which has jurisdiction over NHTSA, Rep. Green will be involved in all levels of getting this legislation passed or added to a NHTSA reauthorization bill. “Consumer safety is at the heart of this legislation,” Rep. Green continued. “The necessary authorities will be able to compare vehicle damage with the data recovered to improve performance and individual product safety. With the creation of a standardized pool of information, cars and trucks will perform better in crash situations and consumers will be kept safer.” ###
02.23.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Gene Green (TX-29) and Harry Teague (NM-02), along with 17 Democratic colleagues, sent a letter to Chairman John Spratt (SC-05) of the House Budget Committee urging the committee not to include the President’s proposed oil and gas tax increases within the congressional budget. The tax repeals proposed in the President’s Fiscal Year 2011 budget would discourage energy companies from new investments in additional projects and jobs while disproportionately penalizing America’s small, independent producers. Among the proposed tax repeals essential to the energy industry include: Intangible Drilling and Development Costs (IDCs), Percentage Depletion, Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) Tax Credit, Passive Loss Exception for Working Interests in Oil and Gas Properties, Geological and Geophysical (G&G) Amortization, Marginal Well Tax Credit, and the Manufacturing Tax Deduction. “The natural gas and oil industry is a staple of the American economy and essential in securing our energy independence," Rep. Green stated. “Repealing these tax provisions would put an entire industry at risk; stepping backward at best and fatally wounding it at worst.” Repealing each of these provisions would strip over $35 billion in capital from exploration and production projects in the U.S. According to the letter, “the continued domestic production of natural gas and oil will help address many of the challenges we face today, including create jobs for a struggling economy, provide millions of dollars to federal and state governments from taxes and royalties, decrease our reliance on foreign sources of energy, and meet our clean energy goals by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.” “Over the past year, President Obama and the Democratic Congress have made job creation and economic improvement the top priority and we’ve made great strides forward,” Rep. Green added. “Many of America’s energy producers qualify as small businesses and are just as vulnerable to the state of the economy as anyone else. We need to make all American industries’ viability and growth our concern.” To view the text of the letter, please go to: https://www.house.gov/green/pdf/el02.pdf Cosigners: The Honorable Gene Green The Honorable Harry Teague The Honorable Ciro Rodriguez The Honorable Charlie Gonzalez The Honorable Henry Cuellar The Honorable Chet Edwards The Honorable Silvestre Reyes The Honorable Al Green The Honorable Solomon Ortiz The Honorable Ruben Hinojosa The Honorable Dan Boren The Honorable Mike Ross The Honorable Travis Childers The Honorable John Salazar The Honorable Sheila Jackson Lee The Honorable Michael McMahon The Honorable Jim Costa The Honorable Earl Pomeroy The Honorable Jim Matheson # # #
02.23.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Gene Green (TX-29) and Harry Teague (NM-02), along with 17 Democratic colleagues, sent a letter to Chairman John Spratt (SC-05) of the House Budget Committee urging the committee not to include the President’s proposed oil and gas tax increases within the congressional budget. The tax repeals proposed in the President’s Fiscal Year 2011 budget would discourage energy companies from new investments in additional projects and jobs while disproportionately penalizing America’s small, independent producers. Among the proposed tax repeals essential to the energy industry include: Intangible Drilling and Development Costs (IDCs), Percentage Depletion, Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) Tax Credit, Passive Loss Exception for Working Interests in Oil and Gas Properties, Geological and Geophysical (G&G) Amortization, Marginal Well Tax Credit, and the Manufacturing Tax Deduction. “The natural gas and oil industry is a staple of the American economy and essential in securing our energy independence," Rep. Green stated. “Repealing these tax provisions would put an entire industry at risk; stepping backward at best and fatally wounding it at worst.” Repealing each of these provisions would strip over $35 billion in capital from exploration and production projects in the U.S. According to the letter, “the continued domestic production of natural gas and oil will help address many of the challenges we face today, including create jobs for a struggling economy, provide millions of dollars to federal and state governments from taxes and royalties, decrease our reliance on foreign sources of energy, and meet our clean energy goals by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.” “Over the past year, President Obama and the Democratic Congress have made job creation and economic improvement the top priority and we’ve made great strides forward,” Rep. Green added. “Many of America’s energy producers qualify as small businesses and are just as vulnerable to the state of the economy as anyone else. We need to make all American industries’ viability and growth our concern.” Cosigners: The Honorable Gene Green The Honorable Harry Teague The Honorable Ciro Rodriguez The Honorable Charlie Gonzalez The Honorable Henry Cuellar The Honorable Chet Edwards The Honorable Silvestre Reyes The Honorable Al Green The Honorable Solomon Ortiz The Honorable Ruben Hinojosa The Honorable Dan Boren The Honorable Mike Ross The Honorable Travis Childers The Honorable John Salazar The Honorable Sheila Jackson Lee The Honorable Michael McMahon The Honorable Jim Costa The Honorable Earl Pomeroy The Honorable Jim Matheson # # #
02.23.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green announced that landmark reforms to the credit card industry will go into effect this week thanks to the Credit CARD Act. The law, which was passed by this Congress and signed by President Obama last year, will end unfair industry practices and protect consumers from abusive tactics like retroactive rate increases, misleading late fee charges and over-limit fee traps. “When so many families in our area are struggling to make ends meet, consumers deserve to be treated fairly by their credit card companies,” said Rep. Green. “That’s what this new law will do: level the playing field for consumers.” The new law bans retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances (except when payments are more than 60 days late), double-cycle billing and due-date gimmicks, and stops companies from charging over-the-limit fees unless the consumer opts in. Consumers will save at least $10 billion a year from curbs on interest rate increases alone, according to the Pew Charitable Trust which tracks credit card issues. The Credit CARD Act is part of our long-term plan to rebuild our economy in a way that works for middle-class families and rewards responsibility and hard work – not high-flying finance schemes. “The people of our North and East Houston Harris County district work hard and play by the rules; they deserve fair treatment from their credit card companies. The Credit CARD Act gives Americans the information and rights they need to make smart, informed decisions about their financial lives,” explained Rep. Gene Green. Specifically, the law increases notice of any rate hikes going forward on new purchases to 45 days, requires card companies to fairly credit and allocate payments and prohibits charging fees just to pay a bill by phone. It also protects young consumers by requiring that before cards can be issued to anyone under 21, a parent must co-sign or an ability to pay must be demonstrated. “Our economic recovery depends on a shared prosperity,” said Rep. Green. “That’s why House Democrats continue to side with middle-class families, over a credit card industry that has profited through unfair, abusive practices.” ###
02.22.2010	Houston, TX – Today Rep. Gene Green (TX-29) joined with Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-08), Rep. Al Green (TX-09), Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), and representatives from the Port of Houston and local industry to discuss the use of American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) funds for local job creation. The Port has received $98.8 million to address critical needs by building dredge material and placement areas, and $2.8 million through the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act (DERA) program. These funds have all been supplied by ARRA. “I am happy to see Speaker Pelosi here at the Port with an active interest in our local economy,” said Rep. Gene Green. “ARRA has made, and will continue to make, a huge impact on our area.” The Port of Houston is the largest U.S. port in foreign commerce and is responsible for $285 billion in economic activity and approximately 1.5 million direct and indirect jobs. The funds awarded by ARRA are estimated to create 2640 direct and indirect jobs and help to maintain the Port of Houston as a major Houston-area economic engine. ARRA has also awarded money to benefit early education in the Houston-area. Head Start of Harris County has received $632,544, Early Head Start of Galena Park ISD has received $47,705, and Early Head Start/Head Start of Gulf Coast Community Services has received over $1 million; all of these funds are to boost current programs of social and cognitive development in children. Harris County Department of Education has additionally received $881,002 to expand their current operations to provide for a greater number of low-income children. Community Health Centers have benefitted from the Recovery Act with El Centro Del Corazon, Denver Harbor, and Pasadena Health Centers all receiving in excess of $500,000. These resources will be used to serve more patients and provide more jobs, and to help meet the increase in demand for primary care services for the low-income and underserved populations. “Making sure that affordable, quality care is readily available has been a long-standing goal of mine,” Rep. Gene Green continued. “These are vital resources that will get us closer to that target.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is responsible for a $50 million award to build two direct connectors at U.S. 59 and Beltway 8 and the direct connector in Baytown from State Highway 146 to Spur 330. The Texas Department of Transportation projects will allow for greater traffic flow while easing congestion and drive times. In October of 2009, the Department of Energy awarded a $200 million grant to CenterPoint energy to begin the first phase of its Intelligent Grid that will improve operational efficiency and reliability. The funding was made possible by ARRA and will sponsor a range of technologies. CenterPoint has been a pioneer in developing a Smart Grid program and will begin with much of Houston’s critical infrastructure. The State of Texas has received in excess of $12 billion, funded entirely by ARRA. “Without these resources, our state wouldn’t have been able to balance its checkbook,” Rep. Green stated. “These funds will continue to help our local and state economy stabilize during the economic downturn, and bring even more needed jobs to our area.” ###
02.12.2010	Washington, DC - Today the U.S. Department of Labor announced grants in health care and emerging industries totaling more than $225 million, funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. San Jacinto Community College District in Pasadena, Texas will receive more than $4.7 million. The grant will allow San Jacinto to provide comprehensive petrochemical training programs for low income unemployed and incumbent workers that lead to relevant certificates or associate degrees which meet industry needs of the Gulf Coast. “The Recovery Act’s investments are making a positive difference in the lives of America’s working families,” said Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis.” San Jacinto’s grant totals $4,722,919 with a special emphasis on attracting and training Hispanic and female participants for worker training. “This grant provides a great opportunity for our constituents who are out of work or need additional skills, to receive training locally through San Jacinto Community College,” said Rep. Gene Green. “San Jacinto has a history of working with local industry to train workers with skill sets that are in demand, and this grant brings the College together again with a number of local companies and industry groups.” Key partners include Brazosport College, Lee College, Dow Chemical, East Harris County Manufacturers Association, and Shell Oil Company. The effort will provide participants with degrees or certificates in the following areas: Industrial Automation Technician certificate, CNC Operator certificate, PLC programming certificate, Industrial Instrumentation Technician degree or certificate, Custom Fieldbus certificate, Custom Instrumentation certificate. “Our area encompasses all areas of the energy sector; including the petrochemical industries along the Houston Ship Channel,” Rep. Green stated. “This funding will help train workers in our area to gain critical jobs skills important to local industry.” # # #
02.05.2010	Houston, TX - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will hold two free workshops to provide current high school students with information on opportunities for post-graduation. These workshops are coordinated with Service Academies and Sallie Mae to encourage students to consider a career in service and to advise parents and students on ways to afford college. The Academy Day Workshop is designed to help high school students learn about and apply for U.S. Service Academies. It will be held on Saturday, February 6 from 10:00AM to 12:00PM at the HCC Northline Community Room located at 8001 Fulton Street in Houston. Representatives from the Naval, Air Force, U.S. Military and Merchant Marine Academies will answer questions and provide information about the application and nomination processes. WHAT: ACADEMY DAY WORKSHOP Hosted by Congressman Gene Green· United States Military Academy at West Point· United States Naval Academy at Annapolis· United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs· Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New YorkWHEN: SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 201010:00AM-12:00PMWHERE: HCC Northline, Community Room 8001 Fulton Street Houston, TX 77022 Rep. Green’s Paying for College Workshop is in collaboration with the Sallie Mae Fund to provide parents and students with information on how to finance their college education. It will have admissions and financial aid experts offering information about accessing grants, scholarships, government sponsored loans, and other financial aid information. The event will be held Monday, February 8 from 7:00PM to 8:30PM at the MacArthur Senior High School Cafeteria located at 4400 Aldine Mail Road in Houston.Students and parents will receive free financial planning and paying for college resources. The Sallie Mae Fund will be giving a junior or senior student the chance to win a $500 scholarship at the workshop. Those wishing to attend the workshop may RSVP at www.salliemaefund.org or sign up on site. WHAT: PAYING FOR COLLEGE WORKSHOP Hosted by Congressman Gene Green and the Sallie Mae Foundation *The financial aid process * Admissions process *Scholarships *GrantsWHEN: MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 20107:00-8:30PMWHERE: MacArthur Senior High School, Cafeteria 4400 Aldine Mail Road Houston, TX 77039 “Every child should have the opportunity to attend college,” Green said. “The Paying for College Workshop is intended to provide parents and students with the tools and information they need to make the college dream a reality, and will provide them with resources to best finance their education.” Research conducted by the Sallie Mae Fund shows that three out of four young adults have indicated that had they been aware of their financial aid options, they would have continued their education. A lack of financial aid knowledge among low-income and minority populations creates barriers to higher education. “Obtaining a job in today’s economy is tough enough without the additional hurdle of not having a college education,” said Green. “And our Service Academies are some of the best in the world. I am always proud when students from our district make the admirable decision to make a career of serving our country.” For more information and additional resources, visit the following websites:https://www.salliemae.comhttps://www.fafsa.ed.gov/https://studentaid2.ed.gov/getmoney/fin_aid_wizard/ ###
01.07.2010	Houston, TX – Representative Gene Green today announced that the Electronic Waste Recycling event scheduled for this Saturday, January 9th has been postponed due to harsh weather conditions expected in the Houston area this weekend. The event is now scheduled for January 30th. WHAT: Electronic Waste Recycling Event Please join us to safely dispose and recycle electronic devices such as televisions, CPUs, monitors, cellular phones, keyboards, laptops, fax machines, and other electronics. WHO: Representative Gene Green will host an electronic waste recycling day, in conjunction with the City of Houston Solid Waste Department and Houston City Council Member Ed Gonzalez. WHEN: Saturday, January 30, 2010 / 9:00-1:00 PM WHERE:8001 Fulton (HCC Northline parking lot) Houston, Texas America thrives on technological innovation and consumer electronics like computers, wireless devices, televisions. These devices have immeasurably improved the lives of people worldwide. Rapid innovation is good, but the high turnover of electronic devices produces over 2.6 million tons per year of electronic waste, or “e-waste” in the U.S. alone. Unfortunately, many electronic products contain toxic materials such as lead, mercury, cadmium, and flame retardants. While landfill disposal poses challenges, the e-waste problem can get even worse when the consumer does the right thing by trying to recycle. “I have introduced H.R. 2595, the Electronic Waste Recycling Reform Act of 2009, which will restrict the export of unusable and obsolete electronics, and would ban the export of electronic equipment unless the export meets standards set by the EPA. We can do our part now to recycle this equipment at home and provide jobs in our country,” said Rep. Gene Green “Making sure that our electronic waste is recycled properly is easy, and we hope that you will join us on Saturday, January 30th, to recycle your unused and unwanted electronics.” For more information, please call our district office at (281) 999-5879.
01.07.2010	Houston, TX – Representative Gene Green today announced that the Electronic Waste Recycling event scheduled for this Saturday, January 9th has been postponed due to harsh weather conditions expected in the Houston area this weekend. The event is now scheduled for January 30th. WHAT: Electronic Waste Recycling Event Please join us to safely dispose and recycle electronic devices such as televisions, CPUs, monitors, cellular phones, keyboards, laptops, fax machines, and other electronics. WHO: Representative Gene Green will host an electronic waste recycling day, in conjunction with the City of Houston Solid Waste Department and Houston City Council Member Ed Gonzalez. WHEN: Saturday, January 30, 2010 / 9:00-1:00 PM WHERE:8001 Fulton (HCC Northline parking lot) Houston, Texas America thrives on technological innovation and consumer electronics like computers, wireless devices, televisions. These devices have immeasurably improved the lives of people worldwide. Rapid innovation is good, but the high turnover of electronic devices produces over 2.6 million tons per year of electronic waste, or “e-waste” in the U.S. alone. Unfortunately, many electronic products contain toxic materials such as lead, mercury, cadmium, and flame retardants. While landfill disposal poses challenges, the e-waste problem can get even worse when the consumer does the right thing by trying to recycle. “I have introduced H.R. 2595, the Electronic Waste Recycling Reform Act of 2009, which will restrict the export of unusable and obsolete electronics, and would ban the export of electronic equipment unless the export meets standards set by the EPA. We can do our part now to recycle this equipment at home and provide jobs in our country,” said Rep. Gene Green “Making sure that our electronic waste is recycled properly is easy, and we hope that you will join us on Saturday, January 30th, to recycle your unused and unwanted electronics.” For more information, please call our district office at (281) 999-5879. ###
12.10.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) today voted in support of H.R. 3288, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, which included a provision in the omnibus that waives the restrictions on Community Development Block Grant funding from being used as local match requirements for other federal funding in areas affected by Hurricane Ike and all other federally declared disasters in 2008. “Those who lost their homes and businesses in this disaster need increased commitment and cooperation from all levels of government. There is still more that we can do to provide assistance for our communities but this is a good step toward supporting those that were hardest hit,” said Representative Green. This funding will be particularly important for Galveston and the surrounding areas whose tax base were reduced by Hurricane Ike and have no other way to generate funds to provide for the match. Disaster areas generally have to raise a certain percentage of the funding in order to receive federal dollars, and community development block grants are normally restricted from being used to match those funds. In the case of Hurricane Ike, this legislation waives that restriction. “Representative Chet Edwards has taken a lead role in crafting the emergency hurricane funding as the senior Texas member on the House Appropriations Committee,” said Green. “He has worked closely with Houston congressional delegation and State Representative Craig Eiland to ensure that the voice of those hardest hit would be heard at the federal level.” “There is vast damage that still exists today along the Texas Gulf Coast, so it is vital that communities have access to Federal funding for ongoing relief efforts. The provision included in today’s bill will help our Texas communities that need it most,” said Congressman Chet Edwards, the senior Texas member on the House Appropriations Committee. “The victims of Hurricane Ike, who lost their homes, businesses and their livelihoods, need federal, state, and local authorities to continue to work together diligently to rebuild and recover.” “State Representative Craig Eiland has done such good work in the legislature to help Galveston that made it easier for Congressman Edwards and I to get additional federal assistance for the Texas coast areas affected by Hurricane Ike,” said Rep. Green. Texas has had more than $14,000,000,000 in hard losses from Hurricane Ike that include damages to vital infrastructure, roads, crops, schools, utilities and social services in which these additional CDBG funding could help offset. # # #
12.04.2009	Houston, TX – Representative Gene Green announced that the City of Baytown will receive $8,685,086 for Hurricanes Ike and Dolly recovery. This grant will aid long-term infrastructure recovery and economic development in the Baytown area. Hurricane Ike inflicted an estimated $50 billion in total losses to our local Texas communities. “I am glad that funds received by the Texas Department of Rural Affairs from the Department of Housing and Urban Development and Congress continue to go the hardest hit communities in Texas,” said Green. “This funding will help with the damage that still lingers along the Texas Coast. Federal commitment is still not at the level it should be, considering that Hurricane Ike is the second costliest Hurricane in history. Those who lost their homes and businesses need increased commitment and cooperation from all levels of government.” This funding will go toward the reinforcement of District 2’s fire station, for several diesel generators to address power failures in Baytown during Hurricane Ike, to help weather proof Baytown Emergency Medical Services facilities, and for storm shutters at Baytown police substations and the city jail. “There is still more that we can do for all of our communities affected by this disaster including the City of Baytown,” said Green. “I am glad the federal government continues to see the need for additional assistance for the Texas coast, and I will continue to work so that our hardest hit communities receive the assistance they need from all levels of government.” # # #
12.04.2009	Washington, DC – Representative Gene Green and a bipartisan group of Texas representatives sent a letter to House leadership urging them to extend biodiesel and renewable diesel excise tax credits before they expire on December 31, 2009. The letter emphasizes importance of an extension of the tax credits to promote green jobs and domestic production of low carbon, renewable energy sources. Representative Gene Green was joined by Texas Representatives Al Green, Chet Edwards, Silvestre Reyes, Solomon Ortiz, Rubén Hinojosa, Henry Cuellar, Ciro Rodriguez, Charlie Gonzalez, and Joe Barton, in sending a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, and Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means, Charlie Rangel, urging the value and need for an extension of renewable energy tax credits in the tax extenders package expected to come before the House of Representatives before the end of the year. “It is both fiscally and environmentally responsible to extend these tax credits and to promote the development of biodiesel here at home,” said Green. “Texas jobs depend on this industry and the nation depends on the domestic development of renewable energy sources in order to move us away from our dependence on foreign oil.” Across the nation, the biodiesel industry supported over 50,000 jobs in just this past year. Texas is the leading producer of biodiesel in the nation and the industry supported up to 8,600 jobs in the state. In addition to the economic impact of biodiesel in Texas and across the country, biodiesel and other renewable energies reduce dependence on foreign oil. Biodiesel is made from renewable resources and has lower direct greenhouse gas emissions compared to petroleum diesel. # # #
12.04.2009	Washington, DC – Representative Gene Green and a bipartisan group of Texas representatives sent a letter to House leadership urging them to extend biodiesel and renewable diesel excise tax credits before they expire on December 31, 2009. The letter emphasizes importance of an extension of the tax credits to promote green jobs and domestic production of low carbon, renewable energy sources. Representative Gene Green was joined by Texas Representatives Al Green, Chet Edwards, Silvestre Reyes, Solomon Ortiz, Rubén Hinojosa, Henry Cuellar, Ciro Rodriguez, Charlie Gonzalez, and Joe Barton, in sending a letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, and Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means, Charlie Rangel, urging the value and need for an extension of renewable energy tax credits in the tax extenders package expected to come before the House of Representatives before the end of the year. “It is both fiscally and environmentally responsible to extend these tax credits and to promote the development of biodiesel here at home,” said Green. “Texas jobs depend on this industry and the nation depends on the domestic development of renewable energy sources in order to move us away from our dependence on foreign oil.” Across the nation, the biodiesel industry supported over 50,000 jobs in just this past year. Texas is the leading producer of biodiesel in the nation and the industry supported up to 8,600 jobs in the state. In addition to the economic impact of biodiesel in Texas and across the country, biodiesel and other renewable energies reduce dependence on foreign oil. Biodiesel is made from renewable resources and has lower direct greenhouse gas emissions compared to petroleum diesel. # # #
12.04.2009	Houston, TX – Representative Gene Green announced that the City of Baytown will receive $8,685,086 for Hurricanes Ike and Dolly recovery. This grant will aid long-term infrastructure recovery and economic development in the Baytown area. Hurricane Ike inflicted an estimated $50 billion in total losses to our local Texas communities. “I am glad that funds received by the Texas Department of Rural Affairs from the Department of Housing and Urban Development and Congress continue to go the hardest hit communities in Texas,” said Green. “This funding will help with the damage that still lingers along the Texas Coast. Federal commitment is still not at the level it should be, considering that Hurricane Ike is the second costliest Hurricane in history. Those who lost their homes and businesses need increased commitment and cooperation from all levels of government.” This funding will go toward the reinforcement of District 2’s fire station, for several diesel generators to address power failures in Baytown during Hurricane Ike, to help weather proof Baytown Emergency Medical Services facilities, and for storm shutters at Baytown police substations and the city jail. “There is still more that we can do for all of our communities affected by this disaster including the City of Baytown,” said Green. “I am glad the federal government continues to see the need for additional assistance for the Texas coast, and I will continue to work so that our hardest hit communities receive the assistance they need from all levels of government.” # # #
11.30.2009	Houston, TX – Representative Gene Green today expressed support of the Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) announcement that the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County’s (METRO) project to extend the light rail transit system to the University of Houston has entered the Congressional 10-Day Notification Period. Unless Congress expresses concerns over the project, the FTA will approve the project for a move into the preliminary engineering phase of the FTA New Starts program. “The expansion of METRO to the University of Houston is a move that we have long been waiting for,” said Rep. Green. “The University of Houston has a large commuter student population and the expansion of the light rail system to the University will allow these students to use a cleaner, more efficient public transportation system that will ease traffic and help improve the air quality in our city.” The eastern segment will run along Wheeler Street to Ennis and Alabama Streets and then to the University of Houston, and will have three commuter parking lots at different stations throughout the system. The expansion would decrease travel time and would reduce traffic around the University of Houston campus. “It is important that we continue to invest in the infrastructure of the growing Houston metropolitan area. By providing light rail service to the University of Houston and the surrounding areas, we can increase access to quality education for more of our constituents while promoting a cleaner transportation alternative,” said Rep. Green. # # #
11.07.2009	Washington, D.C. – Representative Gene Green today voted in support of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act of 2009, which passed the House of Representatives 220-215. This legislation will provide national health reform for all Americans, and creates a national insurance exchange in which individuals and small businesses can purchase health insurance plans for themselves and employees. “I support H.R. 3962, Affordable Health Care for America Act, which provides national health care reform. Texas has the highest rate of uninsured in the nation and our district has the highest rate of uninsured in the nation,” said Green. “It would be irresponsible of me not to vote for passage of a bill that will allow 230,000 more of my constituents have access to affordable, quality health insurance.” The 29th district of Texas will benefit from passage of this legislation. 43 percent of the non-elderly population in our district is without insurance—the highest of any district in the U.S.—and outnumbers the 34.9 percent of those in the 29th with private coverage. In 2008, an estimated 64.1 percent of all children in the nation had private coverage, 28.3 percent had public coverage, and 9.9 percent were uninsured. In 2008, our district had 26.8 percent of our children uninsured—the third highest rate for uninsured children in the nation. This bill will provide significant benefits in our district alone by allowing 230,000 currently uninsured individuals to gain access to high-quality, affordable health insurance—we currently have 243,000 uninsured in our district. Up to 16,600 small businesses could receive tax credits to provide coverage to their employees, and provide credits to help pay for coverage for up to 177,000 households. It will improve Medicare for 56,000 beneficiaries, including closing the prescription drug donut hole for 4,400 seniors. “Today, the House of Representatives passed historic health insurance reform after many years,” said Rep. Green. “After nearly 100 hours of committee hearings, 3,000 town halls and events nationwide, and 239 considered amendments, we have passed a bill that is thoughtful and responsible. 96 percent of our country would have health insurance because of this legislation.” The cost of health care reform under the legislation is fully paid for - by making the Medicare and Medicaid programs more efficient and a surtax on the income of the wealthiest individuals. This will not affect 99.96 percent of taxpayers in the 29th district. The House bill meets the President’s criteria of being fully paid for and reducing the national deficit in the long term. Americans will no longer have to worry that they will be denied coverage, since the House legislation includes critical reforms to the insurance industry. Our coverage cannot be dropped or watered down when we need it most. “We are in desperate need of health care reform. Health insurance premiums are growing three times faster than wages and last year, more than half of Americans postponed medical care or skipped their medications because they couldn’t afford it,” said Green. “It is our moral responsibility to ensure that all Americans have access to quality medical care.” # # #
10.27.2009	Washington, D.C. – Representative Gene Green announced that a $200 million federal stimulus grant from the U.S. Department of Energy will be awarded to CenterPoint Energy to accelerate the deployment of its Advanced Metering System and begin the first phase of its Intelligent Grid to improve operational efficiency and reliability. This funding was part of President Barack Obama’s announcement that the nation would undergo the largest single energy grid modernization investment in U.S. history. These grants will fund a broad range of technologies that will spur the nation’s transition to a smarter, stronger, more efficient and reliable electric system. The $3.4 billion in grant awards are part of the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act, and will be matched by industry funding for a total public-private investment worth over $8 billion. Applicants state that the projects will create tens of thousands of jobs, and consumers in 49 states will benefit from these investments with a stronger, more reliable grid. “I took the opportunity to stand with CenterPoint and the Port of Houston to support CenterPoint Energy’s efforts to move our electric infrastructure into the 21st century in early August,” said Green. “I am glad the Administration recognized CenterPoint and the work they do to bring much needed funding to Houston to create jobs and a more efficient and modernized grid.” CenterPoint Energy in Houston has been a pioneer in developing Smart Grid technologies and has unveiled one of the most comprehensive Smart Grid programs in the nation that will provide benefits for the energy needs of Texas and the U.S. The area where CenterPoint Energy will begin building the intelligent grid includes much of Houston’s critical infrastructure, such as the Port of Houston, the Texas Medical Center, U.S. Veterans Affairs hospitals, the Harris County Transit Control Center, Houston’s 911 call center, the city’s key central business districts, four major universities, and other critical facilities. This intelligent grid will improve reliability for employees who work at N.A.S.A. and employees who operate major portions of the nation’s critical energy and petrochemical manufacturing infrastructure, including numerous chemical plants, petroleum refineries, and the Colonial Pipeline, which is the largest pipeline in the U.S. “In July I sent a letter to Secretary of Energy Steven Chu urging funding for CenterPoint, and am glad he recognized the importance of their initiatives to Houston and the nation. I will continue to work with the Administration, CenterPoint and others to bring much needed funding and innovation to the Houston area,” said Green. # # #
10.21.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green joined fellow Members today to officially launch the House Natural Gas Caucus at a hearing to discuss the “State of U.S. Natural Gas Today.” Today’s hearing included testimony from several leading industry experts, business officials, and legislators – each with a unique focus on one or more aspects of the natural gas industry, the benefits of natural gas, and recent legislation introduced to enhance its place in our domestic energy industry. “I am pleased to work with my colleagues in the House of Representatives to continue to promote clean burning natural gas and strengthen our national energy security. America has abundant supplies of natural gas and we must retain these high-paying jobs to improve our economy and reduce our emissions,” Green said. “I applaud Congressman Gene Green and the members of the House Natural Gas Caucus for promoting the use of natural gas to achieve greater energy independence for America. I look forward to working with them on expanding the many uses of this American resource. We’ve got to get off foreign oil, and the only immediately available transportation fuel that can replace it is natural gas,” said T. Boone Pickens. The Congressional Natural Gas Caucus was formed as a bipartisan effort to promote awareness of an abundant, low emission energy source. The caucus consists of members of Congress dedicated to championing the use of clean, plentiful, domestic natural gas. They are committed to informing and educating Members of Congress, and the American people about the clean-burning domestic fuel. By promoting the use of natural gas, America will benefit from cleaner modes of transportation and energy generation, creating a cleaner environment and millions of new American jobs. The Caucus will be focused on discovering environmentally-friendly ways to produce natural gas and explore the ways natural gas can help meet the country’s energy needs while leading us towards an independent energy future. # # #
10.05.2009	Houston, TX – Representative Gene Green today announced that the Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) has announced more than $27 million in grants for school safety and to locate, arrest, and prosecute child sexual predators and exploiters. The Aldine Independent School District will receive $226,966 as part of the Secure Our Schools grant program. “It is important that we provide our children with the safest learning environment possible,” said Rep. Gene Green, who represents the Aldine ISD. “The COPS Secure Our Schools grant for Aldine ISD will go a long way toward providing our schools with the resources they need to create a secure and nurturing atmosphere.” The COPS office awarded almost $16 million under the Secure Our Schools (SOS) grant program for the 2009 fiscal year. Grants will be awarded to 128 law enforcement agencies in 38 states, and included Aldine ISD. Funding under this program may be requested for such things as: placement and use of metal detectors; locks, lighting, and other deterrent measures; security assessments; security training of personnel and students; coordination with local law enforcement; and any other measure that may provide a significant increase in security. “The timing of this grant coincides with Texas’ National Night Out program which helps heighten crime and drug prevention awareness, highlights local anticrime programs, strengthens neighborhood spirit and police-community partnerships, and lets criminals know that neighborhoods are organized and fighting back. Together, we can all work to make our neighborhoods more secure,” said Green. # # #
09.25.2009	Houston, TX – Representative Gene Green today announced that the Transportation and Policy Council of the Houston-Galveston Area approved a plan to allocate $5 Million in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds for the Greater East End Management District Livable Centers Plan. This plan focuses on pedestrian streetscape and urban design improvements for enhanced transit user and pedestrian access to bus and light rail transit. “I am glad that this money has been approved for the East End. It will benefit a highly transit dependent population in Houston’s East End and will also promote improved air quality, safety, and economic development in the area,” said Rep. Gene Green. These improvements are “shovel ready.” Based on input from extensive community input, preliminary engineering has already been completed on a block by block basis. All of these improvements will be made between the existing curb and the property lines within the public right of way. No property will be taken and no changes to traffic operations are required. The District anticipates issuing its first construction contract within 3 months of grant award. Alan Clark, of the Houston Galveston Area Council, stated “Today, the Transportation Policy Council approved $5million for implementation of livable center projects in the East End neighborhood. Developed in partnership with the Greater East End Management District, these projects will improve transit access and pedestrian infrastructure in the strategically important East End neighborhood. These projects are possible because of American Reinvestment and Recovery Act funding. The Transportation Policy Council is appreciative of the support Congressman Green, Senator Gallegos and METRO displayed for these important projects.” “The funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act continues to go a long way, and we are glad to work with the Transportation Policy Council in the Houston-Galveston area to better our community,” said Green. # # #
09.22.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green announced that Harris County will receive will receive a discretionary grant as part of the Head Start Expansion funds available from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. $881,002 will be sent to the Harris County Department of Education. "Giving children the opportunity to begin receiving an education at the earliest age possible ensures that they are equipped with the best foundation possible," said Green. "Early childhood education programs have helped millions of underprivileged children achieve academic success." The Head Start Program of Harris County Department of Education which is receiving the over $880,000 as part of the ARRA funding set aside to support an increase in the enrollment of additional children as well as create new teaching and other positions in Head Start programs. This is in addition to the $632,544 grant received by the Harris County Department of Education in July of this year. “It is wonderful to see that teachers and schools will be receiving the resources and support they need to make a difference in the lives of our children,” said Green. “These grants from the Department of Health and Human Services and the Recovery Act will go a long way towards keeping teachers and administrators in our schools. These investments under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will create jobs and spur economic growth.” In response to the weakening economy, Congress included $2.1 billion for Head Start and Early Head Start in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, to allow an additional 124,000 children to participate in the program. Studies show that every dollar invested in early education generates anywhere from $1.25 to $17 in returns. “Earlier this year members of the Houston delegation asked the Secretary of Health and Human Services to address education funding disparities for cities in Texas,” said Green. “I am glad to see that ARRA funds are being sent to areas like Houston that have been traditionally underserved.” # # #
09.17.2009	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) has asked congressional leaders to fully fund a program that reduces heat- and cold-related deaths by helping people with limited and fixed incomes pay their utility bills. Green and Republican Chip Pickering of Mississippi spearheaded a bipartisan letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader John Boehner, and the Democratic and Republican leaders of the Appropriations Committee asking for at least $3.12 billion in additional funding for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Thirty-six other members of Congress also signed the letter. “Many households must make the tough choice between paying their energy bills or buying food or medicine as energy costs are consuming up to 30 percent of monthly household incomes,” Green said in the letter. “In addition, the advent of severe weather is fueling demand; the heartlands are struggling with sustained summer heat even as citizens in other regions gird for what will assuredly be an equally difficult winter.” According to a heat mortality study conducted by Dr. Laurence Kalkstein of the University of Miami and Dr. Scott Greene of the University of Oklahoma in 2007, an average of 24 people in the Houston area die needlessly each summer because of the heat. Thirty-two million households qualified for help paying their utility bills this year through LIHEAP, but only five million actually received help because of limited funds. Congress has authorized up to $5.1 billion for LIHEAP, but only $1.98 billion has been appropriated. “Rising energy costs have reduced the purchasing power of LIHEAP grants. If Congress adjourns without addressing this problem, states like Texas will be left with insufficient resources to take care of their most vulnerable citizens,” Green said. To learn more about Texas programs helping with utility bills and weatherization, and apply for assistance, visit the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs’ Web site at https://www.tdhca.state.tx.us/ea/index.htm. You can also call 1-877-399-8939 or write to the Energy Assistance Section, Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs, P.O. Box 13941, Austin, Texas 78711-3941. Tips from the Houston Fire Department to avoid heat-related medical emergencies: · Drink plenty of water and electrolyte-replacement beverages before you conduct outside activities and before you start to feel thirsty. · Avoid beverages or food sources with caffeine, alcohol or large amounts of sugar because these can actually result in the loss of body fluid. · Conduct outdoor work or exercise in the early morning or evening when it is cooler. Individuals unaccustomed to working or exercising in a hot environment need to start slowly and gradually increase heat exposure over several weeks. Take frequent breaks in the shade or in an air-conditioned facility. · A wide-brimmed, loose-fitting hat that allows ventilation helps prevent sunburn and heat-related emergencies. A tight-fitting baseball cap is not the best choice when conducting strenuous outdoors activities. Sunscreen also helps protect injury from the sun's rays and reduces the risk of sunburn. · Wear lightweight, light-colored, loose-fitting clothing that permits the evaporation of perspiration. Do not leave children, senior citizens or pets unattended in a vehicle. ###
09.17.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green today voted in support of H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA) which passed 253-171. This bill will increase the number of college graduates by 2020 by making college more accessible by transforming the way our student loan programs operate and by expanding quality early education opportunities that will put more children on the path to success. “This bill will help more Americans achieve their dream of a higher education by making college more affordable and investing in the entire educational experience,” said Green. “The best investment that a nation can make is in the education of its citizens, and I am glad that we are putting more resources into the continuing education of our current workforce and the future of our children.” In addition to investing in college aid, this legislation will also reduce entitlement spending by $10 billion and will save taxpayers $87 billion over ten years by switching to the cheaper Direct Loan program, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Additionally this legislation invests and promotes community colleges by providing grants for community colleges to improve instruction, work with local employers, improve their student support services, and implement other innovative reforms that will lead to a college degree, certificate or industry-recognized credential to fulfill local workforce needs. “Community colleges are a vital part of the training of our workforce and SAFRA invests in the modernization of their infrastructure by authorizing $2.5 billion for improvements,” said Green. “Many Houstonians depend on our local community college systems to prepare them for the jobs of the future so that they can compete in a global marketplace. The new Community College Challenge Grant Program will help transform community colleges into excellent education and job training centers.” The bill reforms the system of federal student loans to save taxpayers $87 billion – and then invests $77 billion of those savings back into education, particularly by making college more affordable, and directs $10 billion back to the Treasury to reduce entitlement spending. Among its many provisions, it increases the maximum Pell Grant from $5,350 in 2009 to $5,550 in 2010 and $6,900 in 2019 and keeps interest rates low on subsidized federal student loans. “Obtaining a job in today’s economy is tough enough without the additional hurdle of not having a college education. College graduates have the training and qualifications needed for many of the highest-paying and fastest growing jobs in our economy, and the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act will make a college education attainable for more Americans,” said Green. # # #
09.16.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green today attended the awarding of the Broad Prize for Urban Education, established by The Eli and Edythe Broad Foundation. Established in 2002 it is the largest education award in the country given to school districts. The $1 million Broad Prize is awarded each year to honor the urban school districts that demonstrate the greatest overall performance and improvement in student achievement while reducing achievement gaps among poor and minority students. Representative Green was joined by Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Chairman of the House Committee on Education and Labor George Miller, and others in today’s ceremony.“I am honored to congratulate Aldine ISD for winning the very prestigious, Broad Prize for Urban Education,” said Rep. Gene Green. “My wife taught high school algebra in Aldine for 26 years and it is where our children attended school; so I have firsthand experience with Aldine’s ability to produce the nation’s best.”As the winner of The Broad Prize, the Aldine Independent School District will receive $1 million in college scholarships for graduating seniors next spring. Additionally, four finalists -- Broward County Public Schools in southern Florida; Gwinnett County Public Schools outside Atlanta; the Long Beach Unified School District in California; and the Socorro Independent School District in Texas -- will each receive $250,000 in college scholarships."Aldine deserves to celebrate today," said Eli Broad, founder of The Eli and Edythe Broad Foundation, which sponsors The Broad Prize. "Aldine has demonstrated that when an entire community and district work together with a singular focus on educating every child, they can succeed, even against the odds of poverty. Their success holds valuable lessons for other urban districts trying to do the same."The $2 million Broad Prize is an annual award that honors the five large urban school districts that demonstrate the strongest student achievement and improvement while narrowing achievement gaps between income and ethnic groups. The money goes directly to graduating high school seniors for college scholarships. Aldine ISD has been recognized as a finalist four out of the last 6 years.“Through their unwavering dedication to student achievement, hard work, and use of the best practices in the country, I have no doubt that Aldine ISD will continue to be a leader in education for years to come,” said Green.# # #
09.15.2009	Houston, TX - Representative Gene Green announced a Homebuyers Workshop in conjunction with State Representative Carol Alvarado, designed to provide information regarding tax credits for first-time buyers, information about the Neighborhood Stabilization and Down Payment Assistance Programs, and counseling for home purchasers for Saturday, September 9. “Many first-time homebuyers do not know what resources are available to them that will help facilitate the purchase of their first home,” said Green. “This workshop will help those in our community gather information that will help them make the best decisions when buying their first home.” Local counselors, realtors, and bank officers from the region will be present to answer questions and give advice. Representatives from the IRS will be present to explain the First-Time Home Buyer Tax Credit, the Department of Housing and Urban Development will present information regarding their Homebuyer Assistance Programs, and representatives from the City of Houston will be on hand to discuss their Down-Payment Assistance Initiatives. “U.S. home sales rose more than expected in July to the highest point in more than two years, and our economy shows signs of recovery,” said Green. “The investments we made in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act are starting to take hold, and the first-time homebuyers credit included in ARRA will help many families fulfill their dream of home ownership.” Who: Congressman Gene Green, State Rep. Carol AlvaradoWhat: Homebuyers WorkshopWhen: Saturday, September 19 9:30 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Where: E.B. Cape Learning Center 4501 Leeland Houston, Texas 77023 For more information please call713.649.6563 or 281.999.5879 ###
08.27.2009	Houston, TX – Representative Gene Green today announced that the Environmental Protection Agency has awarded $9 million from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to the Port of Houston from the National Clean Diesel Campaign. The award will support the SmartWay Clean Diesel Finance Program of the Port of Houston, an innovative clean diesel project that helps protect air quality and will create and retain jobs in the Houston-area. “I am glad that the Environmental Protection Agency recognizes the importance of the Texas Coast and its waterways,” said Rep. Gene Green. “This funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will go a long way not only to keep jobs and promote growth in our area, but it will help protect the environment, air quality and the health of Houston and its neighbors.” Overall, the Recovery Act allotted $300 million for the National Clean Diesel Campaign (NCDC) which promotes diesel emission reduction strategies. This innovative financing program will help the Port of Houston purchase new, cleaner or retrofitted vehicles and equipment. Through NCDC, EPA has worked with thousands of partners to reduce the health effects of diesel emissions across the nation. “We are grateful for Congressman Gene Green’s support of funding for air quality improvements as a worthwhile investment of federal funds, and we also appreciate our regional Congressional delegation as advocates of this important effort,” said James Edmonds, Chairman of the Port of Houston Commission. “We continue to see the affects of the Recovery Act in Houston, and we are glad to work with the EPA to better our environment and sustain our community,” said Green. For information about EPA’s clean diesel initiatives, visit https://www.epa.gov/cleandiesel # # #
07.15.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green today announced that the House Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencieshas preliminarily approved $150 million for Houston METRO’s North and Southeast lines, with $75 million dedicated to each project. This funding would include final design, land acquisition, and construction for the first segments on the North Corridor and Southeast Corridor Projects. “The President’s FY2010 budget asked that $150 million be appropriated to Houston METRO for construction on the North and Southeast Corridor Projects, and I thank the subcommittee for realizing the importance of these projects by placing it in their recommendations,” said Green. “While there are still several steps to take before final approval of funding for these projects occurs, I am glad Congress continues their commitment to public transportation in Houston.” There has been an effort in Congress to foster the development and revitalization of public transportation systems that maximize mobility, minimize environmental impacts and minimize transportation-related fuel consumption. The subcommittee included $10.5 billion for public transportation projects in their recommendations. The Houston Business Journal reports that Houston traffic is the ninth worst in the nation. Houston drivers spent 123.9 million hours in traffic in 2007 and use almost 90 million more gallons of fuel because of the delays every year, costing over $2.5 billion. “I am joined by the rest of the Houston delegation, including Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee and Congressman Al Green in thanking Chairman of the Subcommittee John Olver for his continued support of Texas’ transportation needs,” said Green. “Houston’s population continues to increase and the metropolitan area expands everyday. We need to work to widen the reach of our public transportation system so that it serves more Houstonians and helps protect our city.” # # #
07.09.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green announced that three local early education programs will receive discretionary grants as part of the educational investment funds available from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Over $1.5 million will be sent to local area projects. "Giving children the opportunity to begin receiving an education at the earliest age possible ensures that they are equipped with the best foundation possible," said Green. "Early childhood education programs have helped millions of underprivileged children achieve academic success." The three projects receiving grants are the Head Start Program of Harris County Department of Education which is receiving $632,544, the Early Head Start program with the Galena Park Independent School District receiving $47,705, and the Early Head Start and Head Start Programs with the Gulf Coast Community Services Associations receiving $1,039,580. “It is wonderful to see that teachers and schools will be receiving the resources and support they need to make a difference in the lives of our children,” said Green. “These grants from the Department of Health and Human Services and the Recovery Act will go a long way towards keeping teachers and administrators in our schools. These investments under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will create jobs and spur economic growth.” In response to the weakening economy, Congress included $2.1 billion for Head Start and Early Head Start in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, to allow an additional 124,000 children to participate in the program. Studies show that every dollar invested in early education generates anywhere from $1.25 to $17 in returns. “We’ve been working to increase head start funding received by Texas’ school districts for years, and earlier this year members of the Houston delegation asked the Secretary of Health and Human Services to address funding disparities for cities in Texas,” said Green. “I am happy to see that ARRA funds are being sent to dramatically underserved areas like Houston.” # # #
06.26.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green today voted in favor of H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, which passed the House of Representatives 219-212. Representative Green gave this statement in support of the legislation on the floor of the House of Representatives: “Madam Speaker, today we are set to consider the first comprehensive climate program in the history of the U.S. House of Representatives and I support H.R. 2454. This bill represents efforts to reach consensus across our diverse membership and produce legislation that seeks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions both at home and abroad. If Congress does nothing, greenhouse gas emissions could be regulated administratively through the EPA without input from Members that represent diverse constituencies nationwide. I represent the Port of Houston, a petrochemical complex that stretches along the Texas Gulf Coast and is home to thousands of chemical industry and petroleum refining jobs. We cannot allow the petrochemical and refining industries to migrate out of America. They are vital to our economic and national security, and we cannot outsource this capability. These energy-intensive industries could be left vulnerable to foreign competitors not facing carbon regulations if we do not carefully craft transitional policies to prevent job loss and strengthen U.S. industries at home. I want to thank Congressman Inslee and Congressman Doyle for putting forward a proposal to provide 15% of free allowances to emissions-intensive industries to address competitiveness concerns especially in the chemical industry. If a manufacturing facility is energy-intensive and trade-exposed, allowances will be provided to that facility on a production output basis, providing rebates for both the direct and indirect costs of complying with the climate program. These rebates will level the playing field relative to imports while encouraging emission reductions. The bill also helps protect the U.S. domestic refining industry while creating a climate change program. Our domestic refiners will face a competitive disadvantage with foreign competitors that are not subject to carbon regulations. U.S. refiners will receive 2 percent of allowances starting in 2014 and ending in 2026, plus an additional .25% for small business refiners. That’s over half of the projected 4 percent of refinery emissions. This funding will help defray expenses associated with the direct and indirect costs of their stationary source emissions under the cap, as well as help improve the energy efficiency of refineries through technological and feedstock changes. To level the playing field, foreign importers of refined oil must also pay for the carbon content of imported fuel, as do domestic refiners. While I believe the refining industry could use additional assistance, and I hope any final agreement does so, this is a reasonable first step to protecting our energy infrastructure and keeping good-paying jobs here at home. These proposals, however, cannot substitute the need for a strong international agreement with binding carbon reductions amongst the world’s largest emitters, including developing countries. Thank you Madam Speaker. I yield back.” # # #
06.16.2009	Washington, DC - Representatives Gene Green (D-TX) and Mike Conaway (R-TX) June 3 announced that they had added their 219th cosponsor of House Concurrent Resolution 49, the Local Radio Freedom Act of 2009. The Local Radio Freedom act now counts 232 bipartisan sponsors of this resolution, and continues to build upon the support of over half the House of Representatives. “The system in place today fairly compensates everyone. For 80 years, Congress has recognized that and has not imposed performance fees on local radio stations,” said Green. “The free promotion record labels and performers receive from radio airplay drives album and concert sales, which results in compensation for performers and record labels.” Record labels and performers have prospered from the free airplay provided by local broadcasters. This free airplay is estimated to reach 232 million listeners a week, and the recording industry enjoys increased popularity, visibility and record sales. 85 percent of listeners of all audio services identify radio as the place they first heard music that they purchased. “I am pleased that my colleagues understand the importance of protecting our local radio and rural communities by cosponsoring this legislation,” said Conaway. “Local radio provides an invaluable service in the community by relaying important weather information, national emergency information and important news that will affect the community. This “performance fee” would place an unnecessary and devastating burden on the small local broadcasters and will inevitably hurt our communities. By securing 219 cosponsors and now 232, we have guaranteed the continued protection of local radio in the 111th Congress.” In March, the House Judiciary Committee on May 13 approved H.R. 848, The Performance Rights Act, which would require stations to pay a fee for the music they broadcast free of charge. This legislation would allow the Copyright Royalty Board tax free, over]the]air local music radio stations as it has done to Internet]based streaming radio. Like other industries, radio stations are struggling in the current economic climate and imposing new fees at this point could force many small, minority-owned, and Spanish language radio stations out of business. For some communities, like the Hispanic community, local radio stations are sometimes the only link between them and vital local information and community news. “I cannot say enough about the benefits local radio provides constituents in our district in Houston and Harris Country, Texas,” said Green. Local radio provides Amber Alerts, local news and weather and vital Gulf Coast emergency alerts. “When we experienced Hurricane Ike in Southeast Texas last September power was out across southeast Texas and battery-powered radios and televisions were our only sources of news and emergency information. A performance tax would hurt local radio stations that provide these vital services.” # # #
06.16.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green today announced that the House Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agency has preliminarily approved $35 million for the Houston National Cemetery will receive to expand the gravesites and improve the cemetery. “Providing funds for our veteran’s cemeteries are one of the ways we continue to honor their service after death,” said Green. “Our Houston Veteran’s Cemetery has room to expand, and I am honored that the subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies has prioritized the expansion of Houston National Cemetery.” The Houston National Cemetery is located at 10410 Veterans Memorial Drive and was the only national cemetery to be constructed by the Veteran’s Administration in the 1960’s. The cemetery currently spans 419.2 acres but the Houston National Cemetery has been looking to expand their space. “I am joined by the rest of the Houston Delegation, including Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee and Congressman Al Green in thanking the President for requesting these funds for gravesite expansion and cemetery improvements, and also thank Congressman Chet Edwards, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies for his continued support of Texas’ veterans.” “While this is the first of several steps needed before final approval of funding for this project occurs, I am glad they were included and thank the subcommittee for realizing the importance of this project by placing it in their recommendations,” said Green. # # #
06.16.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green released the following statement regarding the passage of the conference report on H.R. 2346, the Supplemental Appropriations Act FY 2009. The Supplemental passed the House of Representatives 226-202, and will now be sent to President Obama. The legislation provides funding for our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan, fully funds military pay, plans to end the war in Iraq, $1 billion for the “Cash for Clunkers” program that will create jobs and better the economy, provides at least $1.5 billion for Pandemic Flu response, helps combat violence along the Southwest border, extends the new GI bill, and includes further funding for Hurricane Ike disaster relief for the recovery of the Texas Coast. “Our military deserves all of the support they need and this bill gets them the funds they require to finish the 2009 fiscal year, and beyond that it is necessary to take care of military families by continuing to invest in improving military healthcare and family services,” said Green. “Additionally it is necessary to take steps now to protect our nation for a larger pandemic flu outbreak and I am glad this bill does so, among other things.” "However, I am glad the FY 2009 Supplemental also includes relief for the Texas Coast as they continue their recovery efforts from Hurricane Ike. Too many areas are still trying to finish cleaning up and the 100 percent federal reimbursement provisions for debris removal in the supplemental will go a long way towards helping the coast recover.” This funding comes on the heels of the President’s announcement last week that the Department of Housing and Urban Development will grant Texas $1.7 billion for continued rebuilding from the Community Development Block Grant Program. “Additionally, the increase from 75 percent reimbursement to 90 percent for other federal programs will provide relief. This and the President's announcement of $1.7 billion for Texas Ike relief through the Community Block Grant Program will help ease the burden on communities that were struggling to meet the previously required match,” said Rep. Green. “Congressmen Al Green, Sheila Jackson-Lee, and I have worked tirelessly to provide Texas with adequate assistance. I would like to especially thank Rep. Chet Edwards for representing the needs of the Texas Coast on the Appropriations Committee and on the Conference Committee." # # #
06.16.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green today announced that the House Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agency has preliminarily approved $35 million for the Houston National Cemetery will receive to expand the gravesites and improve the cemetery. “Providing funds for our veteran’s cemeteries are one of the ways we continue to honor their service after death,” said Green. “Our Houston Veteran’s Cemetery has room to expand, and I am honored that the subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies has prioritized the expansion of Houston National Cemetery.” The Houston National Cemetery is located at 10410 Veterans Memorial Drive and was the only national cemetery to be constructed by the Veteran’s Administration in the 1960’s. The cemetery currently spans 419.2 acres but the Houston National Cemetery has been looking to expand their space. “I am joined by the rest of the Houston Delegation, including Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee and Congressman Al Green in thanking the President for requesting these funds for gravesite expansion and cemetery improvements, and also thank Congressman Chet Edwards, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies for his continued support of Texas’ veterans.” “While this is the first of several steps needed before final approval of funding for this project occurs, I am glad they were included and thank the subcommittee for realizing the importance of this project by placing it in their recommendations,” said Green. # # #
06.15.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green and the Department of Education announced that the Galena Park Independent School District will receive a three year grant worth $595,497 from the Department of Education’s Advanced Placement Incentive Program. The program is designed to provide funding for teacher training and pre-advanced course development designed to expand Advanced Placement access to low-income students. “Allowing students to get a jump start on their college education is a great way to get them invested in pursuing a higher education,” said Rep. Gene Green, whose district includes Galena Park. “A higher education is the best way to ensure our children and grandchildren have a promising future regardless of socio-economic status.” The Galena Park ISD will use this money to increase the number of economically disadvantaged students who are able to take advanced placement courses and subsequently earn college credit through their performance on Advanced Placement (AP) exams. Participation in Math and Science AP courses will be encouraged via online AP courses. Teachers will receive additional training through annual development sessions and workshops provided by the College Board. “Unfortunately, the high costs of a college education prohibit many low-income students from receiving a higher degree. Entering college with some college credits in hand will help ease the burden of courses students need to take to receive their degrees and hopefully lower their costs,” said Green. “Every bit helps make college more affordable.” Additionally, students and teachers will receive monetary rewards for their successful performance on AP exams. Each student scoring a passing three or higher will receive a $100 stipend, and each teacher whose class has a 50 percent passing rate on an exam will receive a $500 stipend. “As the husband of a retired high-school teacher, I know how hard it is to motivate students to perform at higher levels. This grant will provide educators with the training and tools they need to prepare their students for the next steps of their education.” # # #
06.12.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green released the following statement regarding the FY 2009 Supplemental Legislation, which includes funding for Hurricane Ike disaster relief. "I am glad the FY 2009 Military Supplemental includes relief for the Texas Coast as they continue their recovery efforts from Hurricane Ike. Too many areas are still trying to finish cleaning up and the 100 percent federal reimbursement for debris removal will go a long way towards helping the coast recover. Additionally, the increase from 75 percent reimbursement to 90 percent for other federal programs will provide further relief. This and the President's announcement of $1.7 billion for Texas Ike relief through the Community Block Grant Program will help ease the burden on communities that were struggling to meet the previously required match. Congressmen Al Green, Sheila Jackson-Lee, and the Houston delegation have worked tirelessly to provide Texas with adequate assistance. I would like to especially thank Rep. Chet Edwards for representing the needs of the Texas Coast on the Appropriations Committee and on the Conference Committee."
06.11.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green introduced two bills that will impact the length of time children will be enrolled in State Children’s Health Insurance Plan (SCHIP) and Medicaid. H.R. 2804, the Ensuring Continuous Coverage under SCHIP Act of 2009, and H.R. 2805, the Ensuring Continuous Medicaid Coverage for Children Act of 2009, will both require states to provide continuous coverage for twelve months for all eligible children. In Texas, SCHIP allows children to reapply for coverage annually, but the state will conduct administrative renewal for children in SCHIP in families with income between 185 and 200 percent of the federal poverty line at 6 months. Medicaid requires children to reenroll every six months. Studies have found that 12-month coverage reduced hospitalizations and the annual cost per child. 12 continuous months of eligibility would promote continuity of carefor children, easing recruitment and retention of doctors and other health care providers for Children’s health care. Children who are stably insured are more likely than others to have a regular health care provider, to have preventive care visits, and to receive needed care without delays. “The never-ending application process has caused many children to fall out of the health care system,” said Green. “It does not make sense for our children to lose their insurance and have to rely on other costly alternatives, when they are eligible for and should be enrolled in Medicaid or SCHIP.” The Ensuring Continuous Coverage under SCHIP Act of 2009, or H.R. 2804, will require states to have annual renewals instead of twice a year. Not only will this ensure continuous health coverage for children, but it will also reduce the burden of paperwork on the state, allowing for faster processing.The Texas Children's Health Plan has stated that medical costs per child decrease the longer children are on coverage and 12 month eligibility will lead to children maintaining a regular medical routine. Twelve-month coverage has a powerful effect on total enrollment. Cutting Texas CHIP coverage from 12 months to six months in 2003 primarily caused a 40 percent drop—more than 200,000 children—in CHIP enrollment. When the 2007 legislature eliminated that twice-yearly renewal requirement for CHIP, more than 118,000 additional children received coverage from March 2008 to August 2008—an average of more than 19,000 children every month—showing just how powerful a tool 12-month coverage is in covering eligible children. “I have worked hard to expand SCHIP benefits for children across the country, and this is just one more step we can take to ensure our children receive the treatment they need to grow up with the best foundation possible,” said Green. Additionally, H.R. 2805, the Ensuring Continuous Medicaid Coverage for Children Act of 2009, accomplishes the same goal for children covered under the Medicaid program. Under a 12 month enrollment period, the Texas Health and Human Services Commission estimates that more than 376,000 additional children would be enrolled, covering more than 25 percent of Texas' uninsured children. “We have an opportunity to cover 25 percent more children under Medicaid if this 12 month enrollment period was required across the country. The American Recovery and Reinvestment act has already provided additional funds to pay for added staff and for 12 month coverage across the country,” said Green. Expanding the Medicaid program would reduce avoidable hospitalizations to cut costs-per-child, improve access to well-child care to improve health and comply with federal court requirements, reduce real taxpayer costs by bringing back federal tax dollars to Texas, and further reduce workloads for Texas’ crisis-ridden eligibility system.
06.10.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) and the Department of Housing and Urban Development today announced that Texas will receive $1.7 billion for continued rebuilding of the Texas Coast from 2008’s Hurricane Ike. “I am glad HUD realizes that there are areas still recovering from Hurricane Ike, and the $1.7 billion announced today will help with the damage that still lingers along the Texas Coast,” said Rep. Gene Green. “While I thank HUD for their continued support, federal commitment is still not at the level it should be, considering that Hurricane Ike is the second costliest Hurricane in history. Those who lost their homes and businesses need increased commitment and cooperation from all levels of government.” Ike inflicted an estimated $50 billion in total losses to our local Texas communities. Of the $50 billion in damages, $29.4 billion is not reimbursable by FEMA, insurance, or other subsidies. Before this, the state had received less than $4 billion in federal aid. Other members of the Texas delegation have also responded to the announcement. “There is vast damage that still exists today along the Texas Gulf Coast, so it is vital that this funding moves quickly toward ongoing relief efforts,” said Congressman Chet Edwards, the senior Texas member on the House Appropriations Committee. “The victims of Hurricane Ike, who lost their homes, businesses and their livelihoods, need federal, state, and local authorities to continue to work together diligently to rebuild and recover.” Texas has had more than $14,000,000,000 in hard losses from Hurricane Ike that include damages to vital infrastructure, roads, crops, schools, utilities and social services in which these additional CDBG funding could help offset. “There is still more that we can do for our communities affected by this disaster,” said Green. “I will continue to work with my colleagues to assure that our hardest hit communities receive the assistance they need from all levels of government.”###
06.05.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green today announced preliminary approval for federal funding totaling $860,000 for three projects in the Houston metropolitan area. This total includes funding for Harris County Constable Precinct 6 for a gang identification and enforcement unit, for the Girl Scouts of the USA for VIVA Texas, an Adult Volunteer Latina/Hispanic Outreach Program, andfor HoustonWorks USA for their Juvenile Justice Initiative. Rep. Green requested the funding as part of the congressional appropriations process earlier this year. “I am glad that the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science recognizes the importance of these programs for the public safety and positive growth of our communities,” said Rep. Gene Green. “These three programs will especially help improve the environment for our younger constituents.” The subcommittee has recommended $110,000 for Harris County Constable Precinct 6 to create a gang identification and enforcement, unit in an area that suffers from increased gang activity. Funds will be used to provide a uniform manner of gang identification, gang prevention and gang crime enforcement within the Harris County Precinct 6 by hiring a deputy and giving them the tools and training to decrease crime in the precinct area. $350,000 has been recommended for the Girl Scouts of the USA for VIVA Texas to create an Adult Volunteer Latina/Hispanic Outreach Program, to work with young women to understand the needs of girls in the community, build partnerships with key Latino/Hispanic community leaders and organizations, and to recruit and train additional bilingual volunteers through a specially-developed curriculum that prepares them to lead a Girl Scout troop. The subcommittee has recommended $400,000 for HoustonWorks USA for their Juvenile Justice Initiative which works to reclaim juveniles through preventive programs, educational and rehabilitative services. Many youth are lost in the cracks in the educational system which sometimes leads to misappropriated behavior, lagging behind in school and even dropping out of school. HoustonWorks USA’s objective is to serves youth that are in the Juvenile Justice system or that have been a part of the system in the past. The program will provide the necessary tools for youth to identify their weak areas, address them, and get back on track towards graduation. The program will also serve as a bridge to a higher education or employment. “While this is the first of several steps needed before final approval of funding for these projects occurs, I am glad they were included and thank the subcommittee for realizing the importance of these projects by placing them in their recommendations,” said Green. # # #
06.04.2009	Washington, DC -Representative Gene Green (D-TX) joined by Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA) introduced H.R. 2596, the No Child Left Unimmunized Against Influenza Act of 2009. This bipartisan bill authorizes a multistate demonstration program which will test to see if elementary schools and secondary schools across the nation could serve as seasonal and pandemic influenza vaccination centers. The Center for Disease Control recently recommended that all children aged 6 months to 18 years be given annual influenza vaccination. It will be hard for pediatricians and nurses to keep up with the increased demand – expected to be an additional 30 million children. “Having health professionals vaccinate school-aged children during school hours is the best way to successfully vaccinate kids,” stated Rep. Green. “Working parents will not have to leave work to take their kids to a physician’s office, and schools will see fewer absences from reduced infections rates.” This legislation hopes that by developing a mass immunization infrastructure in our school systems, it will successfully deliver vaccines to school-age children, for whom pandemic attack rates are expected to be highest. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the best way to prevent the flu is by getting a flu vaccination each year. Influenza is the leading cause of vaccine-preventable death amongst children in the United States. On average, five to twenty percent of the population gets the flu each year in the United States; more than 200,000 people are hospitalized from flu complications, and about 36,000 Americans die from flu-related causes. Seasonal flu costs the U.S. economy nearly $90 billion annually, including $10 billion in medical costs. The No Child Left Unimmunized Against Influenza Act of 2009 will authorize a multistate demonstration program designed to test the feasibility of using the Nation’s elementary schools and secondary schools as influenza vaccination centers in coordination with school nurses, school health care programs, local health departments, and community health care providers. # # #
06.03.2009	Washington, DC – Representatives Gene Green (D-TX) and Mike Conaway (R-TX) today announced that they have added their 219th cosponsor of House Concurrent Resolution 49, the Local Radio Freedom Act of 2009. H.Con.Res. 49 now has the support of over half the House of Representatives. “The system in place today fairly compensates everyone. For 80 years, Congress has recognized that and has not imposed performance fees on local radio stations,” said Green. “The free promotion record labels and performers receive from radio airplay drives album and concert sales, which results in compensation for performers and record labels.” Record labels and performers have prospered from the free airplay provided by local broadcasters. This free airplay is estimated to reach 232 million listeners a week, and the recording industry enjoys increased popularity, visibility and record sales. 85 percent of listeners of all audio services identify radio as the place they first heard music that they purchased. “I am pleased that my colleagues understand the importance of protecting our local radio and rural communities by cosponsoring this legislation,” said Conaway. “Local radio provides an invaluable service in the community by relaying important weather information, national emergency information and important news that will affect the community. This “performance fee” would place an unnecessary and devastating burden on the small local broadcasters and will inevitably hurt our communities.By securing 219 cosponsors, we have guaranteed the continued protection of local radio in the 111th Congress.” In March, the House Judiciary Committee on May 13 approved H.R. 848, The Performance Rights Act, which would require stations to pay a fee for the music they broadcast free of charge. This legislation would allow the Copyright Royalty Board tax free, over]the]air local music radio stations as it has done to Internet]based streaming radio. Like other industries, radio stations are struggling in the current economic climate and imposing new fees at this point could force many small, minority-owned, Spanish language, and college radio stations out of business. For some communities, like the Hispanic community, local radio stations are sometimes the only link between them and vital local information and community news. “I cannot say enough about the benefits local radio provides constituents in our district in Houston and Harris Country, Texas,” said Green. Local radio provides Amber Alerts, local news and weather and vital Gulf Coast emergency alerts. “When we experienced Hurricane Ike in Southeast Texas last September power was out across southeast Texas and battery-powered radios and televisions were our only sources of news and emergency information. A performance tax would hurt local radio stations that provide these vital services.” # # # Enc. List of 219 Cosponsors
06.03.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green (D-Texas) will help legal residents fill out and send applications for citizenship Saturday, June 13 at 8:00 a.m. at Houston Community College’s Northline Campus at 8001 Fulton Street in Houston. “The process towards becoming a U.S. citizen can often be long and confusing. We hope to help families understand and steer through the bureaucracy so that they can become citizens,” said Green. “Being able to facilitate the process and put them on the right track has been one of the most rewarding experiences of being a Member of Congress.” This will be the 15th annual Citizenship Day sponsored by Green, who said that in previous years demand has far exceeded the capacity of volunteers to help everyone. This year, Green hopes to help over 300 people complete and send their paperwork. The Citizenship Day event will offer legal residents of the United States the opportunity to complete all the steps necessary to apply for citizenship in one stop. Attorneys will be available to review the completed N-400 applications, passport photos will be taken, money order purchasing services will be available, and the opportunity to mail in application once it’s completed using the post office. While services at Citizenship Day are free of charge, applicants must still pay the usual application, fingerprint and postage fees. What: 15th Annual Citizenship Day WorkshopWho: Congressman Gene GreenWhen: June 13th, 20098:00 a.m.Where: Houston Community College Northline Mall I-45 & Crosstimbers Eligibility Requirements:-You must be at least 18 years of age.-You must have been a legal resident of the U.S. for at least 5 years or, if you are married to a U.S. citizen, you must have been a legal resident for at least 3 years. Applicants Must Bring the Following:-Permanent resident card-A list of the dates when the applicant have left the country and returned since becoming a permanent resident.-Information on when and where the applicant has lived and worked for the past five years.-Information regarding the applicant’s children and spouse, including birth certificates, marriage licenses and divorce decrees.-A money order or cashier’s check for $675 for the application and fingerprint fees, payable to USCIS. The citizenship exam will not be offered at this event nor will swearing-in ceremonies be conducted. The application you complete at the workshop is the first step of the citizenship process. The USCIS will take approximately six months to process it in most cases. Potential applicants with questions can call Green’s Citizenship Day hotline at (281) 999-5879. ###
05.19.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green today announced that the U.S. Department of Commerce has given the Gulf Coast Economic Development District two grants totaling $10.9 million which will assist southeastern Texas communities and businesses impacted by Hurricanes Ike and Gustav in 2008. “I am glad that the Department of Commerce recognizes the continuous need for support of the communities and businesses that are not only still reeling from the Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, but those that have also been further affected by the current economic downturn,” said Green. $10 million will be sent to the Gulf Coast Economic Development District in order to create a revolving loan fund that will assist businesses severely impacted by Hurricanes Ike and Gustav. An additional $900,000 will be sent to the Gulf Coast Economic Development District to reduce economic dislocations resulting from the hurricanes, and to improve responsiveness and effectiveness in the recovery process. These funds are intended to develop and assist in the monitoring of several Economic Development Administration disaster recovery projects. EDA serves as a venture capital resource to meet the economic development needs of distressed communities throughout the United States. # # #
05.19.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green today announced that the U.S. Department of Commerce has given the Gulf Coast Economic Development District two grants totaling $10.9 million which will assist southeastern Texas communities and businesses impacted by Hurricanes Ike and Gustav in 2008. “I am glad that the Department of Commerce recognizes the continuous need for support of the communities and businesses that are not only still reeling from the Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, but those that have also been further affected by the current economic downturn,” said Green. $10 million will be sent to the Gulf Coast Economic Development District in order to create a revolving loan fund that will assist businesses severely impacted by Hurricanes Ike and Gustav. An additional $900,000 will be sent to the Gulf Coast Economic Development District to reduce economic dislocations resulting from the hurricanes, and to improve responsiveness and effectiveness in the recovery process. These funds are intended to develop and assist in the monitoring of several Economic Development Administration disaster recovery projects. EDA serves as a venture capital resource to meet the economic development needs of distressed communities throughout the United States. # # #
05.15.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green released the following statement regarding the progress of the American Clean Energy and Security Act (ACES Act). “I want to thank Chairman Henry Waxman and Subcommittee Chairman Ed Markey for working with us to protect the U.S. domestic refining industry while creating a climate change program. Our domestic refiners will face a competitive disadvantage with competitors abroad that are not subject to carbon regulations. We need to protect these blue-collar jobs here at home and our agreement will help do that. Under the agreement, U.S. refiners will receive 2 percent of allowances starting in 2014 and ending in 2026. This funding will help defray expenses associated with complying with the climate program, as well as improve the energy efficiency of refineries through technological, process, and feedstock changes. While I believe the refining industry could use additional allowances, and I hope any final agreement does so, this is a reasonable first step to protecting our energy infrastructure and keeping good-paying jobs here at home. The draft legislation also included a Low Carbon Fuel Standard that overlapped with the Renewable Fuel Standard. Although there were productive conversations with the Chairman, unfortunately we were not able to reach an agreement on the LCFS and the Low Carbon Fuel Standard will be removed from the legislation. I will continue to work with the Chairman on other critical issues within the legislation so we can produce a climate bill that protects our communities and our environment.” # # #
05.08.2009	Houston, TX - Representative Gene Green today announced that President Obama has recommended that Houston Metro receive full funding grant agreements for the North and Southeast light rail corridors. Specifically, the proposed budget includes a recommended $75 million for each line. “As Congress works to write the transportation appropriations bill, I will work to see that the President’s recommendations for Houston are included in the final bill,” said Rep. Gene Green. “I am glad that the President recognizes the transit needs of our growing community and the need for increased public transportation in Houston.” An estimated $18.5 billion is included in the budget to help states reduce traffic fatalities and injuries, improve the condition and quality of our roadways and bridges, prevent rail accidents, and safeguard the transport of hazardous materials. “President Obama has emphasized the need for the upgrading of our infrastructure across the nation, and I look forward to working with my colleagues and the President to increase the quality of life for Houstonians.” # # #
05.06.2009	Washington, DC - U.S. Congressman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (TX-26) and U.S. Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) introduced HR 2249, the Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act of 2009. The bipartisan bill aims to make health care more affordable by promoting greater transparency about the costs of health care services for patients seeking care. “This is about giving patients more choices and more control over their health care decisions by providing up-front information on cost,” Burgess said. “Restaurants have menus displaying the prices of the products they offer, why should hospitals providing health care services be any different? A patient should be able to know what they are paying for and how much they will pay out-of-pocket. This is an important step in improving our country’s health care system by focusing on patients.” Health care costs are increasing at an alarming rate. In 2008, total national health expenditures rose over 6.9 percent -- two times the rate of inflation. Total spending was $2.4 trillion in 2007, or $7900 per person. Total health care spending represented 17 percent of the gross domestic product. U.S. health care spending is expected to increase at similar levels for the next decade reaching $4.3 trillion in 2017, or 20 percent of GDP. “Our current health care system needs to be reformed. Unfortunately, with all of the bureaucracy and paperwork, few people including patients and physicians know where money is going. This makes it hard to identify the base problem and begin to help curb increasing health care costs,” said Rep. Green. “This legislation will be a first step in a long-term solution to clear up the confusion, and will let us move towards affordable, quality health care for all Americans.” The American Hospital Association notes that there is evidence of the ongoing success of states and state hospital associations to collect and disseminate hospital pricing information. The Health Care Price Transparency Promotion Act directs states to establish and maintain laws requiring disclosure of information on hospital charges. Additionally, the bill requires hospitals and health plans to make such information available to the public, and to provide individuals with information about estimated out-of-pocket costs for health care services. Signing on as original cosponsors of HR 2249 are Reps. John Carter (TX-31), Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Mac Thornberry (TX-13). # # #
04.30.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green (D-TX) today voted in support of H.R. 627, the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, which passed the House of Representatives 356-70. This legislation will help curb unfair and deceptive credit card lending practices. The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights will now be sent to the Senate for their consideration. “Many Americans are struggling to make ends meet during this time of economic uncertainty, and some are turning to credit cards to help ease their burdens,” said Rep. Green. “As more Americans rely on credit cards everyday, it is important that we do everything possible to end abusive and unfair practices by credit card companies.” This legislation will help protect cardholders against arbitrary interest rate increases, allows them to set limits on their credit, and requires card companies to fairly credit and allocate payments. It also prohibits charging fees just to pay a bill by phone, charging over-the-limit fees unless a consumer opts-in in advance or issuing credits cards to minors. Representative Green was an original co-sponsor of the legislation, introduced by Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY). “We need the protections in this legislation. Consumer credit card debt is quickly approaching the $1 trillion mark. Americans across the country and in our 29th district work hard for their money, and those who abide by the terms and conditions should be treated fairly by their credit card companies,” said Green. The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights already has the support of leading consumer groups, such as Consumers Union, U.S. PIRG, and the Consumer Federation, as well as The National Small Business Association and The Service Employees International Union (SEIU). “We want to create a sustainable solution for our struggling economy. It is time that we protect our consumers and provide them with the tools and support they need to continue rebuilding our economy,” said Green. H.R. 627, The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights:Requires card companies to give cardholders advance notice of an interest rate hikeBans retroactive interest rates increases on existing balances, except where the cardholder is over 30 days late making paymentStops tricks and traps that make cardholders incur rate hikes and pricey feesGives cardholders more control over their credit limitsPrevents card companies from issuing cards to minors ###
04.28.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green today announced that almost $300 million in civil works project funding would be sent to the Galveston District Army Corps of Engineers, including $123.9 million for the Port of Houston. Congress passed an economic recovery and stimulus package, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), and it was signed into law by President Obama on February 17th. ARRA was an investment in the workforce designed not only to rebuild America and protect jobs, but also to transform the economy for long-term growth and make Americans globally competitive. “ARRA was designed to invest in infrastructure and create jobs, and I am proud to say that thousands of jobs will be created by these projects in a region that is suffering from the effects of the current economic downturn,” said Rep. Green. “Every day we continue to hear of ARRA investments across the country that will contribute to the recovery of our economy.” In early March 2009, Green was joined by Representatives Olson, Culberson, A. Green, Poe, Jackson Lee, Brady, McCaul, Paul, Carter, Edwards, and Rodriguez, in sending a bipartisan letter asking the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to fund $103.47 million in shovel-ready projects for the Port of Houston. As the largest U.S. port in foreign commerce, the Port of Houston is responsible for 785,000 direct and indirect jobs and $117.6 billion in economic impact. “Congress expressed their commitment to the value of ports by investing $4.6 billion from ARRA for navigation projects,” said Green. “The Port of Houston will benefit from these investments in infrastructure, operations, and maintenance. This will allow shippers to continue to economically transport their goods through the Port and expand business activity in the area.” Below is a list of projects announced for the Port of Houston: Construction: $300,000 - Grass Plantings at Bolivar Marsh.$500,000 - Complete Dredge Material Management Plan for Galveston Ship Channel. Provides a more efficient, least costly, environmentally acceptable disposal plan.$500,000 - Atkinson Island Grass Planting.$25.1 million - Phase II contract to dredge Galveston Channel to authorized project depth. Completes project.$25.4 million - Rehabilitate and enlarge Mid Bay Placement Area creating 200 acres of wetland marshes, and reducing future maintenance costs.$35.4 million - Rehabilitate Placement Areas 14 & 15 to increase dredged material placement capacity and reduce future maintenance costs. Operation and Maintenance: $600,000 - Contract to complete feasibility study for assumption of maintenance on Jacinto Port Channel and expanded portion of Bayport Channel to reduce future maintenance costs.$36.1 million - Construction contract to rehabilitate Spilman, Lost Lake, and Peggy Lake Placement Areas. Reduces future maintenance costs. # # #
04.23.2009	Washington, DC - Representatives Gene Green (D-TX) and Tim Murphy (R-PA) introduced H.R. 2066, the Graduate Psychology Education Act of 2009. This bill will reauthorize the Graduate Psychology Education Program, and will address the shortage of mental health professionals and add more psychologists to the health care system. “There continue to be large gaps in access to mental health resources, especially for underserved and poor communities,” said Green. “There are many factors that limit access to mental health care from underfunding to a shortage of professionals to lack of insurance. This bill will help close the gaps in access to those who otherwise may not seek treatment.” In a recent report conducted by the Commonwealth Health Fund, about two-thirds of U.S. primary care physicians reported that they could not get outpatient mental health services for their patients. Often there were not enough mental health care providers, and this rate was at least twice as high as for other services. In states that have enacted mental health parity legislation, physicians faced fewer challenges and were more likely to find mental health services for their patients. “Effective and timely mental health treatment is a critical component to maintaining physical health. Studies show that untreated depression increases the risk of chronic diseases, and can double the cost of healthcare for heart disease and diabetes. It can and does cost lives. And yet, it is more treatable than many other medical diseases if properly diagnosed and addressed. This bill opens up the door for those who need mental health services by breaking down the barriers for those in underserved communities," said Murphy. The Graduate Psychology Education Program (GPEP) is the only federal program dedicated solely to the education and training of psychologists. This program awards grants to programs that allow psychologists to work with other health professionals to provide mental and behavioral health services to underserved populations including elderly, children, chronically ill persons, and victims of trauma or abuse. Since the first grants were awarded in FY 2002, a total of 52 programs in 27 states have received over $20 million in GPEP funding. The Graduate Psychology Education Act of 2009 will reauthorize the program at $70 million over the next 5 years. Sen. Daniel Inouye (D-HI) has introduced S. 811 as the companion bill in the Senate. “Untreated mental illnesses can double the cost of healthcare. Without integrating the care of our physical health with our mental health, our current system is wasting billions of dollars. This bill helps save lives and money," said Murphy. “As the demand for affordable health care across the country continues to grow, it is essential that we address the health professional shortage to ensure all individuals have access to the services they need,” said Green. # # #
04.23.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green today voted in support of H.R. 1139, the COPS Improvements Act of 2009. Thislegislation provides resources for an additional 50,000 police officers to be added at law enforcement agencies across the nation. The COPS Improvements Act of was approved by the House of Representatives with a vote of 342-78, and will now be sent to the Senate for their consideration. “Our current economy has caused cutbacks in state and local funding in all areas, including law enforcement,” said Green. “This legislation will fund critical programs across the nation that combat gun and drug trafficking, reduce gang violence, perform homeland security duties, and affect all of our communities.” Created in 1994 under the Clinton Administration, the COPS hiring grants program was enormously successful – helping local law enforcement agencies to hire 117,000 additional police officers. Between 1995 and 2005, COPS hiring grants provided $9 billion to help local law enforcement agencies hire more than 117,000 additional police officers, spread across every state. Unfortunately, the GOP-led Congress sharply reduced the funding for the COPS hiring grants – eliminating funding entirely in FY 2006 and FY 2007 “Crime has also risen as a result of the struggling economy and now is not the time to cut back on new hires, essential programs, and training,” said Green. “This federal support for law enforcement will be a positive step towards protecting our neighborhoods, creating jobs, and will begin rebuilding our local economies.” It is estimated that over 2,500 additional law enforcement officials will be hired in Texas.
04.08.2009	Houston, TX - Rep. Gene Green announced that he will be touring the Airline Children’s Clinic Houston Community Health Center to talk about national health care reform and the provisions in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) that improve our nation’s health care. The legislation includes, among other health care provisions, almost $2 billion in funding over the next two years for community health centers. “Community health centers play a vital role in our nation’s health care system, and treat more than 16 million people a year. By providing services to rural areas and to the economically disadvantaged, CHCs give access to preventive and primary health care, that saves millions in unnecessary emergency room visits,” said Green. “The Airline Children’s Clinic Houston CHC is a prime example of the great work being done across the country.” On March 2, Community Health Centers across Texas received almost $14.5 million dollars. This translates to an additional 56,000 patients treated and over 400 jobs. ARRA funding will be invested in Community Health Centers to support renovations and repairs, investments in health information technology, and critically needed health care services. Nearly forty percent of patients treated are without health insurance and one-third are children. “Our nation’s health care system is an enormous burden on American families, businesses and economy. In the last eight years, health care premiums have doubled and one million Americans lost their health insurance, bringing today’s total to 46 million. In today’s economy we must provide the support the work of community health centers and their contributions to their communities.”
04.07.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) today, joined by ten members of the Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation, sent a letter to Governor Rick Perry, Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst, and Texas House Speaker Joe Straus urging their reconsideration their allocation of Education Stabilization funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). “It is in our best interest to make sure that the presently allocated funding and any future money that may come to Texas be used properly,” said Rep. Gene Green. “This is why I travelled to Austin yesterday and delivered these letters to leadership. Texas needs the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to ensure that we continue to provide the best education for our children.” The letter expresses concern that the proposed use of federal Education Stabilization funds does not meet the terms of the law passed by Congress. The Representatives expressed worries that misuse of funding would jeopardize these and future ARRA allocations given to Texas. The letters asked that that these funds from ARRA be used immediately to increase support for schools. “It is the responsibility of the Texas leadership to make sure these critical funds reach our school districts. Congress passed this legislation so that our schools and teachers would have the funding to be properly equipped and retain their jobs today, not so that the funds would sit in a rainy day account,” said Rep. Gene Green. Representatives Gene Green, Solomon Ortiz, Silvestre Reyes, Sheila Jackson Lee, Charlie Gonzalez, Lloyd Doggett, Henry Cuellar, Chet Edwards, Ciro Rodriguez, Eddie Bernice Johnson, and Al Green all signed the letter sent to Texas leadership and representatives. # # #
03.30.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green today announced that the House of Representatives has passed his Vision Care for Kids Act of 2009, which has now been sent to the Senate. This bill establishes and authorizes state grants to provide exams and follow-up treatment for uninsured children identified to have a potential vision disorder. “The Vision Care for Kids Act creates a much-needed grant program to provide follow-up vision care children with vision disorders who do not have access to these vision services,” said Green. “Today’s bill gives states the resources they need to cover vision services to millions of low-income children, and I am glad that it passed the House with such overwhelming support.” Of the 36 states that require preliminary vision screenings, 26 of them do not require follow-up exams for children who fail screenings. “This lack of vision care jeopardizes a child’s development and can unfortunately lead to life-long vision impairment,” said Green. The Vision Care for Kids Act, H.R. 577, will authorize a new grant program that works with states’ efforts to provide follow-up exams and services to low-income children who have previously received a diagnosis. The legislation provides priority to those children under the age of nine, allows up to 10 percent of the grant to be used for education and awareness, and for funds to be used for services to correct identified vision disorders. The Vision Care for Kids Act authorizes $65 million over five years, with a state matching requirement of 25 percent. The Vision Care for Kids Act has been endorsed by: the American Academy of Ophthalmology, the American Optometric Association, the Vision Council of America, Prevent Blindness America, the National Head Start Association, Reading is Fundamental, the National Association of School Nurses, the American Public Health Association “Unless caught early and appropriately treated, vision disorders can lead to irreversible damage that can hinder a child’s normal growth, development, and opportunity to succeed,” said Green. “These children deserve a healthy start to their educational and social development. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act on this legislation quickly.” # # #
03.27.2009	Washington, DC - Representatives Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Gene Green (D-TX) this week introduced H.R. 1745, The Family Health Care Act of 2009 which will help address the shortage of health care providers in underserved communities by creating opportunities and providing reasonable medical malpractice insurance for physician volunteers at community health centers “As the demand for affordable health care across the country grow, it is imperative that we address the health professional shortage to ensure all individuals have access to primary health care,” said Green. “The Family Health Care Act is an important step towards improving the quality of care and lowering overall health care costs across the board.” There is a growing shortage of health care professionals in underserved communities where community health centers are located. It is estimated that to keep up with the high demand, health centers must double their workforce to 12,000. Community health centers provide primary health care to more than 16 million people annually, in over 6,000 communities. “There is currently a staffing crisis at community health centers with a 13 percent vacancy rate for family physicians, a 20 percent vacancy rate for OB/GYNs, and a 22 percent vacancy rate for psychiatrists. Such vacancy rates jeopardize the amount of care available to the uninsured and underinsured,” said Rep. Murphy. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to remove barriers making it easier for doctors to volunteer and give families a healthcare home.” All medical professionals, including those employed by community health centers are covered under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA). Volunteers at free clinics currently have malpractice coverage under several laws. However, volunteer physicians at Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) are excluded from FTCA and have fewer options for coverage, hindering their ability to volunteer. “Many doctors want to volunteer their time and help families in their communities,” said Murphy. “Barriers need to be removed to make it easier for doctors to share their skills at community health centers. Centers should not have to turn away volunteers. Instead, they should be able to concentrate on providing an affordable way for families to receive the care they need.” Previously, this legislation was passed in the House and included in the reauthorization of the Community Health Center program, but was reduced to a GAO study. It is estimated that current coverage saves health centers nearly $200 million in annual insurance premiums, money that is better spent on expanding health care services to additional underserved and uninsured individuals. “At a time when many Americans are losing their jobs and their employee sponsored health insurance, community health centers are increasingly becoming vital – in their communities,” said Green. “This is why the Family Health Care Accessibility Act is necessary - health centers should not have to worry about increased risks because they allow much needed volunteers at their centers. We should be helping health center recruit more providers, especially volunteers.” # # #
03.25.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green received the Alzheimer Associations 2009 Humanitarian Award Tuesday evening in recognition of his leadership and efforts to end the two-year waiting period for Medicare coverage for people with disabilities under the age of 65. The Humanitarian Award presentation took place during the 21st Annual Public Policy Forum, the Alzheimer’s Association’s yearly advocacy event. “I am proud to reintroduce the Ending the Medicare Disability Waiting Period Act of 2009. It is unacceptable that this vulnerable population is forced to go without health insurance for two years because they cannot afford to pay for COBRA coverage or individual insurance before they qualify for Medicare coverage,” said Green. “Phasing out the two-year waiting period is important to those diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease who may not have access to affordable health insurance and because of their illness are otherwise uninsurable.” The Alzheimer Association also recognized Green’s support of the Geriatric Assessment and Chronic Care Coordination Act (H.R. 2244), which provides care coordination services for Medicare beneficiaries with multiple chronic conditions. People with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias are often unable to self manage their care and require the assistance of family and other caregivers. Representative Green and Senator Bingaman have been selected to receive jointly the Alzheimer’s Association’s 2009 Humanitarian Award. Past recipients include President Ronald Reagan, Senators Arlen Specter, Tom Harkin, Mark Hatfield, Barbara Mikulski, Jay Rockefeller, Charles Grassley and Blanche Lincoln, and Representatives Steny Hoyer and Edward Markey. “I am honored to join such prestigious previous recipients, and will continue my work as a member of the Subcommittee on Health to make sure that quality and affordable health care are available to all Americans,” said Green. ###
03.20.2009	Houston, TX - Rep. Gene Green this week sent a letter to the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Houston encouraging them to use funds received through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to build an underpass at Harrisburg Boulevard and the UP/BNSF rail crossing.“There is a large amount of support in the community for an underpass for the grade separation at Harrisburg Boulevard and the UP/BNSF rail crossing in our history East End neighborhood,” said Green. “An underpass will relieve noise pollution, preserve the historic character of Harrisburg Boulevard, ease the flow of pedestrians, and contribute to the economic development of the neighborhood.”METRO is scheduled to receive $92 million dollars in federal funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. METRO leadership has advocated for a project slated to run $40-50 million dollars that will convert 83 miles of High-Occupancy Vehicle lanes into High Occupancy Toll Lanes. This leaves an additional $42-52 million left over for other projects.“Using these funds for an underpass at this crossing will complement the East End light rail project. These leftover funds give METRO the opportunity to meet transportation challenges in the East End, and I encourage the leadership of METRO to consider using these funds for a much needed underpass,” said Green.# # #
03.19.2009	Washington, DC - Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Representative Gene Green (D-TX) joined by Rep. Zach Wamp (R-TN), today introduced the Community Coalitions for Access and Quality Improvement Act in the U.S. House and Senate that will build on the success of previous federal investments in 250 Healthy Community Access Programs (HCAP) over the last decade and uses their best practices to improve the quality of health care across the country. “Community health centers typically compete with each other for grant funding, so getting all of them to work together is a challenge,” said Green. “HCAP funding allows centers, like the Gateway to Care Center in Houston, to coordinate and collaborate with all of our community health centers so that they best serve their communities,” HCAP, grantees leveraged $6 for every federal dollar invested and provided access to health care to an additional 6.2 million individuals while generating $2 billion a year in savings for health care purchasers nationwide. The new legislation improves efficiency and coordination among providers, assists local communities in developing programs targeted toward preventing and managing chronic diseases, and expands and enhances services currently provided. "I am pleased to join in introducing this critical legislation. Especially at a time when so many Americans are struggling, we should be doing all we can to reduce costs while providing access to quality care," Murray said. “By investing in a national network of local community healthcare access coalitions, we can provide healthcare to more people and actually save money." The legislation states that funding can only be used by a grantee to direct expenses associated with achieving greater integration of a health care delivery system to directly provide a broad range of culturally competent services and for direct patient care and service expansions to fill identified or documented gaps within an integrated delivery system. “Healthy Community Access Programs will use this funding to implement their best practices in order to reduce inappropriate emergency room, support the primary care provided by Community Health Centers and Rural Health Clinics, maximize access to free and reduced-price prescription drugs, and to overall improve the health status of low-income consumers of health care,” said Rep. Green. # # #
03.19.2009	Washington, DC - Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Representative Gene Green (D-TX), joined by Representative Lee Terry (R-NE), today introduced the Ending the Medicare Disability Waiting Period Act of 2009. Both were introduced in the House (H.R. 1708) and Senate (S. 700), and would eliminate the two-year delay in coverage for people with severe disabilities who are waiting to become eligible for Medicare coverage. Currently, 6 million disabled individuals under 65 years of age are subject to the Medicare waiting period, resulting in an estimated 400,000 Americans with disabilities living without health insurance during a time when quality health care is most critical. “It is unacceptable that this vulnerable population is forced to go without health insurance for two years because they cannot afford to pay for COBRA coverage or individual insurance before they qualify for Medicare coverage,” said Rep. Green. “We cannot leave one of our most at risk populations without health care.” At any one time about 1.5 million people who have a disability that prevents them from working are caught in a two-year waiting period for Medicare. The waiting period comes on top of an initial wait for the Social Security Administration to determine eligibility for disability insurance (SSDI) plus a five-month waiting period to begin receiving SSDI payments. "It is absurd that seniors with devastating injuries should have to wait two years before receiving medical treatment," said Rep. Terry. The waiting period forces people with severe disabilities to wait two years, during which many seniors who cannot afford health care forgo expensive treatments and care, putting them at an unnecessary risk. Often these untreated conditions are more costly to treat when Medicare coverage finally begins. Below is a list of supporting organizations. # # # Supporting Organizations: ACCSES Advocacy for Patients with Chronic Illness, Inc. AIDS Action Baltimore, Inc. AIDS Charitable Trust of New Mexico AIDS Treatment Data Network AIDS Treatment News Alpha-1 Association Alpha-1 Foundation Alzheimer’s Association American Academy of Neurology American Autoimmune Related Diseases Association American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network (ACS CAN) American Council of the Blind (ACB) American Foundation for the Blind (AFB) American Medical Rehabilitation Providers Association (AMRPA) American Network of Community Options and Resources (ANCOR) American Psychological Association Amputee Coalition of America Amyloidosis Support Groups Arthritis Foundation Association for Ambulatory Behavioral Healthcare Association for Frontotemporal Dementias Association of Assistive Technology Act Programs (ATAP) Association of Community Cancer Centers Association of Programs for Rural Independent Living (APRIL) Association of University Centers on Disabilities Barrier Free Living, Inc. Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law Benign Essential Blepharospasm Research Foundation (BEBRF) Breast Cancer Network of Strength Brooklyn Center for Independence of the Disabled Catskill Center for Independence Center for Disability Rights, Inc. Center for Independence of the Disabled in New York Center for Medicare Advocacy Children's Tumor Foundation Coalition for Pulmonary Fibrosis Coalition of Behavioral Health Agencies, Inc. Commission on the Public's Health System (CPHS) Community AIDS National Network (TIICANN) Community Health Charities of America COPD Foundation Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund Easter Seals Ehlers Danlos National Foundation Epilepsy Foundation Families USA Geriatric Mental Health Alliance of New York Harlem Independent Living Center Hispanic Senior Action Council HIV Medicine Association HIV/AIDS Services for African Americans in Alaska HIVictorious, Inc. Incontinentia Pigmenti International Foundation Independence Care System International Foundation for Alternative Research in AIDS (IFARA) International Pemphigus and Pemphigoid Foundation Institute for the Puerto Rican/Hispanic Elderly, Inc Kennedy's Disease Association Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Lupus Foundation of America Medicare Rights Center Men's Health Network Mental Health America Michigan Positive Action Coalition (MI-POZ) Mississippi Coalition for Citizens with Disabilities Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America (MGFA) National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys (NAELA) National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors (NASTAD) National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders (ANAD) National Association of People with AIDS National Association of State Directors of Developmental Disabilities Services (NASDDDS) National Association of State Directors of Special Education (NASDSE) National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare (NCPSSM) National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare National Council on Independent Living (NCIL) National Disability Rights Network National Down Syndrome Congress National Family Caregivers Association National Gray Panthers National Health Council National Marfan Foundation National Multiple Sclerosis Society National Organization of Rare Disorders (NORD) National Organization of Social Security Claimants’ Representatives (NOSSCR) National Patient Advocate Foundation New Mexico AIDS Services New York Citizens’ Committee on Aging NISH North American Brain Tumor Coalition (NABTC) NTM Info & Research Paralyzed Veterans of America Parent to Parent of NY State Parents United Together of Mississippi Pulmonary Hypertension Association Options for Independence, Inc. Regional Center for Independent Living The Resource Center for Accessible Living, Inc. Rose F. Kennedy University Center for Excellence in Developmental Disabilities, Albert Einstein College of Medicine Scleroderma Foundation Shwachman Diamond Syndrome Foundation Southern Tier Independence Center Special Needs Alliance Spina Bifida Association Syncope Trust and Reflex Anoxic Seizures (STARS) The AIDS Institute The Arc of the United States United Cerebral Palsy United Jewish Communities United Spinal Association Village Care of New York Westchester Independent Living Center
03.19.2009	Washington, DC - Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Representative Gene Green (D-TX) joined by Rep. Zach Wamp (R-TN), today introduced the Community Coalitions for Access and Quality Improvement Act in the U.S. House and Senate that will build on the success of previous federal investments in 250 Healthy Community Access Programs (HCAP) over the last decade and uses their best practices to improve the quality of health care across the country. “Community health centers typically compete with each other for grant funding, so getting all of them to work together is a challenge,” said Green. “HCAP funding allows centers, like the Gateway to Care Center in Houston, to coordinate and collaborate with all of our community health centers so that they best serve their communities,” HCAP, grantees leveraged $6 for every federal dollar invested and provided access to health care to an additional 6.2 million individuals while generating $2 billion a year in savings for health care purchasers nationwide. The new legislation improves efficiency and coordination among providers, assists local communities in developing programs targeted toward preventing and managing chronic diseases, and expands and enhances services currently provided. "I am pleased to join in introducing this critical legislation. Especially at a time when so many Americans are struggling, we should be doing all we can to reduce costs while providing access to quality care," Murray said. “By investing in a national network of local community healthcare access coalitions, we can provide healthcare to more people and actually save money." The legislation states that funding can only be used by a grantee to direct expenses associated with achieving greater integration of a health care delivery system to directly provide a broad range of culturally competent services and for direct patient care and service expansions to fill identified or documented gaps within an integrated delivery system. “Healthy Community Access Programs will use this funding to implement their best practices in order to reduce inappropriate emergency room, support the primary care provided by Community Health Centers and Rural Health Clinics, maximize access to free and reduced-price prescription drugs, and to overall improve the health status of low-income consumers of health care,” said Rep. Green. # # #
03.18.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green today voted in support of H.R. 1388, the Generations Invigorating Volunteerism and Education (GIVE) Act. The GIVE Act passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 321 to 105, and encourages and allows more Americans the opportunity to become civically engaged. The Senate is also considering similar legislation. The GIVE Act will offer all Americans – young and old – the opportunity to give back to society and their country,” said Green. “Americans are known for rising to a challenge when faced with trying times and the GIVE Act will be the framework for more Americans to be a part of improving their communities. The GIVE act will create a “Summer of Service” program that will allow middle and high school students to volunteer in their communities and earn a $500 award that can be used for costs associated with a higher education. The legislation also gives older Americans the chance to become more civically engaged by creating the Silver Scholarships and Encore Fellowships which are targeted at those over the age of 55. “Four new service corps - with focus on clean energy, education, healthy futures, and our veterans - will be created to serve low-income communities. These new corps will improve the quality of life for undeserved populations that often do not receive the assistance they need,” said Green. Over 60 million Americans volunteered for service in 2007 and generated over $150 billion dollars in benefits to their communities. The GIVE Act establishes Youth Engagement Zones that will build partnerships between organizations and schools in need to assist underserved populations. “I am proud that I voted for President Clinton’s AmeriCorps service legislation in 1993, and that we also now stand behind President Obama’s efforts to build up this nation through civic engagement,” said Green. “This legislation will let us strengthen existing programs and create new initiatives to service veterans, complement in-school programs, and promote student activism. The GIVE Act will provide Americans with additional opportunities to serve their communities and allow individuals to contribute to our recovery.” # # #
03.12.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green, joined by a bipartisan group of Members of the Texas Delegation, sent a letter to Assistant Secretary for Civil Works of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Paul Woodley, asking for $103.47 million for projects in the Houston Ship Channel. Recently the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers received $4.6 billion dollars as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) for navigation projects. The letter asks that $103.47 million be sent to the Port of Houston for investments in its infrastructure. “Since there were no earmarks in ARRA, we encourage the Corps of Engineers to include the Houston Ship Channel’s projects when awarding ARRA funding,” said Green. “The Port of Houston is responsible for 785,000 jobs and over $117.6 billion in economic impact, and federal investment will continue to support these jobs and commerce.” Representatives Pete Olson, John Culberson, Al Green, Ted Poe, Sheila Jackson-Lee, Kevin Brady, Michael McCaul, Ron Paul, John Carter, Chet Edwards, and Ciro Rodriguez joined Congressman Green in signing the letter. The Port of Houston ranks first in foreign tonnage and U.S. imports. The U.S. Coast Guard estimates that a one month closure of a port like Houston would cost the national economy $60 billion dollars. “The federal government is responsible for maintaining the Port of Houston, and there are projects ready to go that qualify for funding. The Houston Ship Channel is a vital component of our regional and national economy and funding these projects will be a worthwhile investment,” said Green # # #
03.05.2009	Washington, DC - Representatives Gene Green and Ted Poe today announced that $50 million dollars from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will be sent to the Texas Department of Transportation to begin construction on the final 13-mile segment of the Sam Houston Tollway - Beltway 8 (BW 8) Northeast project. The direct connectors from BW 8 to U.S. 59 will serve approximately 2.5 million residents in northern Harris and southern Montgomery counties. “The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was designed to invest in infrastructure and create jobs, and I am proud to say that thousands of jobs will be created by this project in a region that suffers not only for the effects of the current economic downturn, but that is still reeling from Hurricane Ike,” said Rep. Green. “While I opposed wasteful spending in the stimulus bill, I am glad to see that worthwhile projects such as this direct connectors project received the funding it has long deserved,” said Poe. “I would like to thank Congressman Green for his collaboration and hard work on this important project. This is vital transportation project to our area and a major benefit to both the quality of life for area residents and our economy.” While the project calls for the construction of four direct connectors and a budget of $100 million, the funds will be used to begin construction on two of the four connectors of the project. This funding will curtail the lag time between the completion of the main lines of the Tollway and the direct connectors that will allow access to and from U.S. 59. “These direct connectors are a vital component to easing traffic congestion in the northern part of the region. Congressman Poe and I have collaborated to make this important project a priority,” said Green. “The Port of Houston will also benefit from decreased congestion and increased highway access that will allow shippers to economically transport their goods from the Port and expand business activity in the area.” ###
03.04.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green today announced that the Committee on Energy and Commerce has passed his Vision Care for Kids Act of 2009 by voice vote, which establishes and authorizes state grants to provide exams and follow-up treatment for uninsured children identified to have a potential vision disorder. “The Vision Care for Kids Act creates a much-needed grant program to provide follow-up vision care children with vision disorders who do not have access to these vision services,” said Green. “Today’s bill gives states the resources they need to cover vision services to millions of low-income children.” Of the 36 states that require preliminary vision screenings, 26 of them do not require follow-up exams for children who fail screenings. “This lack of vision care jeopardizes a child’s development and can unfortunately lead to life-long vision impairment,” said Green. The Vision Care for Kids Act, H.R. 577, will authorize a new grant program that works with states’ efforts to provide follow-up exams and services to low-income children who have previously received a diagnosis. The legislation provides priority to those children under the age of nine, allows up to 10 percent of the grant to be used for education and awareness, and for funds to be used for services to correct identified vision disorders. The Vision Care for Kids Act authorizes $65 million over five years, with a state matching requirement of 25 percent. The Vision Care for Kids Act has been endorsed by: the American Academy of Ophthalmology, the American Optometric Association, the Vision Council of America, Prevent Blindness America, the National Head Start Association, Reading is Fundamental, the National Association of School Nurses, the American Public Health Association “Unless caught early and appropriately treated, vision disorders can lead to irreversible damage that can hinder a child’s normal growth, development, and opportunity to succeed,” said Green. “These children deserve a healthy start to their educational and social development.”
02.26.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green this week, joined by Representatives Al Green and Sheila Jackson-Lee, sent a letter to Acting Secretary of Health and Human Services Charles Johnson requesting that Harris County Head Start programs receive a substantial increase in funding as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “Houston serves the lowest percentage of eligible children compared to other cities in Texas and the nation,” said Rep. Green. “Recent passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act has new dollars for Head Start expansion, and that money should go to dramatically underserved areas like Houston.” A 2005 comparison of the nation’s most populous areas conducted by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services showed that Harris County served 6,649 children compared to the 29,000 children served by Los Angeles County, 20,000 served by Cook County, and 24,000 served by the New York area. Federal funding is based on the number of children under the age of five years whose family income is below the federal poverty line. 21 percent of children under five in Harris County meet this guideline. “While Head Start has not received funding increases in the last few years, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act allots new federal money to invest in the education of our children,” said Green. “We ask the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to direct newly available expansion funds to Harris County and begin to resolve the funding disparity.” # # #
02.13.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green today voted in support of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). This legislation will help Americans become more globally competitive and energy independent, modernize our infrastructure and healthcare systems, invest in the future of education, while providing unprecedented accountability and transparency. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was approved by a vote of 246-183, and will be sent to President Obama next week for his signature. “Today, Congress took action and passed a responsible solution that will put America on the road to recovery,” said Rep. Green. “We are not looking simply to provide a crutch for Americans who have lost their jobs. Our investment in the workforce is designed to not only rebuild America, but to transform our economy for long-term growth and make Americans globally competitive in growing industries like green collar jobs, new energy markets, and health care information and technologies.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will create and save 3 to 4 million jobs and prepare our economy for long-term growth. This legislation focuses on the struggling economy today and on creating a sustained workforce for tomorrow. ARRA includes strong oversight and public transparency. More than three quarters of all Americans favor this legislation. “Right now Texas has an unemployment rate of 6 percent, and it is estimated that the Recovery package will create or save over 269,000 jobs in Texas alone,” said Green. A staggering 3.6 million American jobs have been lost since this recession began in December 2007. High unemployment and rising costs have outpaced Americans’ paychecks. The Recovery Act will help workers train and find jobs, and help struggling families make ends meet. Every dollar in unemployment or food stamp creates at least $1.63 in economic activity, as these funds are spent quickly. 95 percent of Americans will receive an immediate tax cut. This jobs and economic recovery act contains plans to create or save 269,000 jobs in Texas over the next two years, provide a “Making Work Pay” tax cut of up to $800 for over 8 million workers and their families immediately, and modernize the state’s infrastructure and create jobs with an extra $2.8 billion dollars in funding. “We cannot afford to wait. Our economy is crumbling, workers are being laid off, people are losing their health insurance, and families are finding it harder and harder to make ends meet,” said Rep. Green. “This legislation will start us back on the right track by looking out for those who have been most affected, and by broadly investing in multiple sectors of our economy. It will take time to turn this economy around, but I am confident that this package will make our economy stronger.” # # #
02.13.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green this week, joined by most members of the Houston Congressional delegation, sent a letter to Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood asking for his support for both light rail projects. It asks that the Federal Transit Administration issue Early System Work Agreements for both the North and Southeast METRO corridor projects in order to be eligible for funding in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act passed by the House of Representatives today. “I am pleased to see that H.R. 1 provides for $1.5 billion in supplemental discretionary grants that will be awarded to state or local governments or transit agencies on a competitive basis for projects that will have a significant impact on the country, metropolitan area, or region,” said Green. The bipartisan letter, led by Rep. Green and signed by Houston area Representatives John Culberson, Al Green, Ted Poe, Sheila Jackson-Lee, Kevin Brady, and Mike McCaul, states that the two Houston projects meet three vital criteria: they are ready to begin construction in less than ninety days, have received environmental clearances, and have received favorable cost effectiveness ratings. “The North and Southeast lines are important to the people of Houston and our economy. The Houston congressional delegation has a long history of supporting each other’s priority projects, and I look forward to working with my friend, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, on building these lines,” said Rep. John Culberson. “By investing in these two projects, work can begin quickly, creating thousands of jobs in a region that suffers not only from the current economic conditions but also from the lasting effects of Hurricane Ike,” said Rep. Gene Green. “I look forward to working with the Department of Transportation to see that these two projects receive the attention they deserve.” # # #
02.12.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green (D-TX), joined by Rep. Mike Conoway (R-TX) today introduced the bipartisan Local Radio Freedom Act. House Concurrent Resolution 49 (H.Con.Res. 49) that declares Congress’ opposition to any new charges for radio stations that play recorded music. “Local radio provides Amber Alerts, local news and weather, and as we know all too well along the Gulf Coast emergency alerts,” said Rep. Green. “When we experienced Hurricane Ike in Southeast Texas last September power was out across southeast Texas and battery-powered radios and televisions were our only sources of news and emergency information.” The resolution expresses its support of these stations and states that these vital services would be threatened if local stations were required to pay new fees. Stations would “suffer severe economic hardship” if a performance fee were imposed. “Radio has played a huge role in promoting new music and artists at no cost to the record labels. The performance tax being pushed by the record labels is projected to have a huge price tag costing local stations and the community millions of dollars,” Green said. Radio revenues are predicted to fall during these tough economic times, and a new performance tax would create a further burden on local radio stations that could lead to their end. “A bipartisan group of more than one 100 Members of Congress joined me in introducing this resolution today,” said Green. “This clearly shows the strong commitment Congress has to protecting local radio and all the benefits it provides to our communities.” # # #
02.10.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green announced that the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency has awarded Harris County Emergency Service District #6 an Operations and Safety grant for over three-quarters of a million dollars. The $792,320 award is part of the department’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program. AFG’s are a component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire related hazards nationwide. Since its inception in 2004, the program has provided a total of almost $2.75 billion to first-responder organizations to purchase response equipment, personal protective equipment, and vehicles. “It takes commitment and hard work to make the system work right and save lives. Americans depend on first responders and their quick action when they have an emergency,” said Rep. Green. “I am honored that Harris County Emergency Service District #6 was recognized by FEMA for their exemplary service.” The Operations and Safety Program Grant will allow Harris County Emergency Service District #6 to use the funds for training, equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness, and health and safety modifications to stations and facilities. “This grant will allow Lon Squyres, Fire Chief of the Jacinto City Fire Department, and his team of paid and volunteer fire fighters to continue to train, purchase state of the art equipment, and provide Jacinto City and Harris County with excellent emergency services,” added Green. Representative Green was a strong advocate of the 2004 SAFER Firefighters Act. Passed by Congress in 2003, the SAFER ACT enables more fire departments to operate with safe staffing levels. In 2004, Rep. Green was awarded the Alfred K. Whitehead Legislative Award for his work on behalf of Firefighters and first responders. # # #
01.28.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green voted today in support of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, critical legislation that will create and save 3 to 4 million American jobs. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was approved by a vote of 244-188 and will now be sent to the Senate. Our national economy is in bad shape, and thousands are laid-off almost every day. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will increase funding for construction jobs, educational support, health care -- including expanding Medicaid to recently laid-off workers -- and many other important items. Representative Green released the following statement in support of the legislation: “Madame Speaker, I want to thank you, the rest of Leadership, and the chairmen of the committees that put this bill together for your work to create a package that will create jobs, invest in America’s infrastructure needs, address pressing healthcare needs, and expand opportunities for education and worker training. I strongly support the provisions in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and urge my colleagues to join me in supporting it. Our district and the surrounding areas in southeast Texas were devastated by Hurricane Ike last September. People are getting back on their feet, but there is still a significant need for additional federal funding. I would have like to seen that included in this package as it is one of the most pressing recovery needs in our country, but since it was not, I hope it can be included in either an upcoming omnibus or supplemental appropriations bill. In Texas we’ve seen the unemployment rate jump from 4.2% a year ago to 6% in December of 2008 – the unemployment rate in the Houston-Baytown area is 5.5% and will likely only rise with the significant drop in the price of oil and refined product, and the impact that has on our energy sector jobs. It is important we invest in this sector and this legislation makes valuable contributions to diversify our nation’s energy and environmental resources. It makes critical improvements to the smart grid provisions established in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 by eliminating the cap on the allowable number of smart grid demonstration projects and increasing the grant funding available for these efforts. My hometown of Houston is a leader in moving toward smart grid solutions. Center Point Energy, a leading energy delivery company in Texas, will invest over $600 million in automatic metering systems, or AMS, over the next five years to support smart grid infrastructure. AMS technology is the first step in moving towards an automatic grid which will allow consumers to manage and monitor the electric use in real-time, reduce energy consumption, and improve grid reliability. I also support Representative Ed Markey’s (D-MA) amendment to this section that will expand the protocols smart grid projects can use to obtain grants authorized in this bill. I am also pleased with the increase in funding and changes to the Weatherization Assistance Program which will help low-income families make their homes more energy efficient, as well as the additional $1 billion provided for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) that will help more Texans heat and cool their homes during these troubled economic times. While I support the temporary Department of Energy loan guarantee program created under Section 5003 for renewable energy and electric transmission projects, I hope the Committee does not forget about the strategic importance of funding the larger DOE loan guarantee program so that other valuable projects can move forward that reduce carbon emissions and that employ new innovative technologies. In addition to the extension of the renewable production tax credits, I also believe Congress should provide a long-term extension of the biodiesel blenders tax incentive to help this critical renewable energy industry. Houston is home to several biodiesel producers that directly or indirectly employ hundreds of workers in good-paying jobs, and over 50,000 jobs are currently supported by this industry nationwide. Without a long term extension of this tax credit, producers are not able to provide the certainty required to bring in much needed capital for renewable energy projects. In addition to creating and sustaining jobs, the biodiesel industry helps our nation reduce greenhouse gas emissions and is developing next generation feedstocks such as algae that will further enhance our energy security. Finally, I appreciate the inclusion of an additional $100 million for the National Estuary Program, which could help protect the Galveston Bay Estuary Program. Galveston Bay is a critical ecosystem home to an abundance of plant and animal species that are vital to our region’s way of life and local economy. These funds can be used for such useful purposes as restoring wetlands or habitat restoration, and can be leveraged with public and private sector funds to generate large returns on investment. The Port of Houston Authority also actively participates and supports this key environmental program. The legislation also makes significant investments in health care services and coverage in this country during these tough economic times. Unfortunately, when individuals lose their jobs they often cannot afford medical care or COBRA premiums and often forgo treatment due to the cost. ARRA will provide COBRA premium assistance for 12 months for workers who have been involuntarily terminated and their families. COBRA premium assistance will allow individuals who would typically be unable to afford COBRA maintain insurance coverage and obtain medical treatment. States like my own have asked Congress for assistance with the States Federal Medical Assistance Percentage to help assist them the rising number of individuals needing Medicaid coverage. In order to avoid state deficits, many states may have to reduce their standards for Medicaid eligibility, which will actually increase the number of uninsured. A temporary increase in FMAP funding until December 31, 2010 will help avert this potential problem and allow states to continue to provide Medicaid coverage to this uninsured population. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Bill of 2009 contains a 4.9% increase in FMAP for states. Texas, in particular, will benefit from an FMAP increase and the temporary formula and hold harmless provision. ARRA will also place a moratorium on 7 Medicaid regulations. My home state of Texas is affected by all seven of these cuts but most affected will be the payments for graduate education, Targeted Case Management Rule, Cost Limits to Public Providers, Coverage for Rehabilitation Services. Theses regulations would reduce funding to these valuable programs and leave states in a significant budgetary crisis. ARRA also provides valuable funding for Health Information Technology. We’re all aware of the benefits that improved IT would bring the health care sector and the patients it serves. With integrated information technology, patients could manage their electronic health records and avoid having to haul multiple records to their various physicians. If implemented correctly, Health IT can improve patient safety and garner cost savings. The funds provided in ARRA are an investment in the future of health care in this country. Providers will have to pay some up front costs to obtain the technology, but they will receive $40,000 to $60,000 in financial incentives for adopting interoperable health IT systems. Another key component that this package contains provides an investment of critical funds into our state and local transportation agencies. This is the quickest way to create jobs immediately. The Texas Department of Transportation alone has 853 “shovel-ready” projects. One of these projects in my district will create 1200-1350 new engineering and construction jobs in the Houston area in the next ninety days. This is significant in an economy where thousands of job cuts are announced every day. It is easy to make the case for an infusion of transportation dollars when our state departments of transportation have run out of money. However, some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are asking why we should invest billions of dollars in education around the country. The answer to this question is simple. Investing in our children’s education is investing in our economic competitiveness. When states came across hard fiscal times in the last year, education funding is typically one of the first areas where they cut back. Additionally, with the increase in foreclosures, property tax revenues are down and cities have also cut back on financing critical education services. If we do not invest in our children’s education and give them an opportunity at a better economic future, then we are setting ourselves up even more federal spending on social services in the future. By increasing the amount of the Pell Grant by $500, we give students across the country the financial help they need to get the certification or degree necessary to pursue and keep a job in this economy. By investing in Head Start, we are setting a whole generation of students on a path towards economic viability. Head Start has been proven to help close the achievement gap between students of differing socio-economic status across the country. Finally, I am encouraged that this bill will lower the child tax credit eligibility level making it available to all working tax filers with children. This will help our constituents put food on the table and pay their essential bills as the cost of living continues to increase. Madame Speaker, I again state my strong support for this package which will provide and immediate infusion of funding into shovel-ready projects, creating jobs and starting our economy on the road to recovery, and I urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.” # # #
01.27.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green voted in support of the Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which passed the House of Representatives 250-177. The Senate had previously passed identical legislation 61-36. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act will reverse the Supreme Court’s decision that has kept women from pursuing pay discrimination claims. This legislation will now be sent to President Barack Obama, and is likely to be the first major bill that he signs into law. Representative Green submitted the following statement in support of this legislation: “Madam Speaker, I rise today as an original cosponsor of the Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, to express my strong support for the bill. I am pleased we are taking up this bill as passed by the Senate so we can finally send it to the President’s desk after previously passing it twice in this chamber. The Ledbetter Fair Pay Act corrects and clarifies a serious misinterpretation by the Supreme Court in its 2007 ruling in the case of Ledbetter v. Goodyear. In that 5-4 decision, the majority ruled that Lilly Ledbetter, the lone female supervisor at a tire plant in Gadsden, Ala., did not file her lawsuit against Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. in the timely manner specified by Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The court determined a victim of pay discrimination must file a charge within 180 days of the employer’s decision to pay someone less for an unlawfully discriminatory reason such as race, age, sex, or religion... The Ledbetter Fair Pay Act clarifies that each paycheck resulting from a discriminatory pay decision constitutes a new violation of the employment nondiscrimination law, as long as the charge is filed within 180-days of the employee receiving the paycheck. The Ledbetter Fair Pay Act restores workers’ ability to pursue claims of pay discrimination on not only sex, but race, religion, age, or for any other reason. Congress must pass this legislation to help ensure all workers are treated fairly in the workplace and the standard of equal pay for equal work is upheld. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill to end pay discrimination.”
01.14.2009	Washington, DC - Representative Gene Green today voted in support of HR 2, the bipartisan Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009 (CHIPRA). This legislation provides health care to 11 million children in modest-income families. The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act was approved by a vote of 289-138. Similar legislation was vetoed twice by President Bush in the 110th Congress. “Since its creation in 1997, the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) has provided health care coverage for children in families that earn too little to afford health insurance for their kids,” said Green. “Today’s bill gives states the resources they need to cover millions of uninsured children who are currently eligible for SCHIP and Medicaid.” “The 175,000 Texas children who were kicked off the rolls in 2003 know all too well of the state’s willingness to balance the state budget on their backs, and I hope that this bill will take away the state’s ability to do that in the future,” said Green. This bill reauthorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) through FY 2013 and continues coverage for all 7.1 million children currently covered by SCHIP. The bill also extends health care coverage to 4.1 million additional uninsured, low-income children. “I am proud that this bill includes a provision from the Immigrant Children’s Health Improvement Act that will give states the option to cover immigrant children and pregnant women lawfully residing in the Unites States,” said Green. “CHIPRA also includes language from another bill of mine which provides one year of emergency Medicaid coverage for children born in the U.S. and their mothers, which is crucial in protecting the health and wellness of newborns born in this country.” During these tough economic times, millions of Americans are losing their jobs and health care and state budgets are being stretched. The immediate expansion of SCHIP will be more cost-effective for taxpayers and states, and will bring direct relief to families who would otherwise have to rely on costly emergency room care. “Children need a healthy foundation for them to grow and succeed, and the renewal of SCHIP will give America’s children a good basis,” said Green. “We hope that after three years of fighting for this critical legislation, this will be one of the first bills signed by President Obama.” # # #
01.13.2009	Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Gene Green today will introduce the Immigrant Children’s Health Improvement Act (ICHIA), which give states the option to cover legal immigrants and will lift the current five year ban that legal immigrants must endure to enroll in Medicaid and the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The House of Representatives is scheduled to take up legislation this week that will renew SCHIP and ICHIA is expected to accompany the bill. Under current law, legal immigrants are barred from Medicaid and the State Children’s Health Insurance Program for five years after they enter the United States. ICHIA lifts the current provision and allows states the option to include legal immigrant children in their programs. “One of the top priorities of the 111th Congress is to provide wider access and to improve children’s health insurance,” said Green. “The passage of ICHIA gives access to health care to an additional 400,000 to 600,000 legal immigrant children affected by the current restrictions.” Children of immigrants are three times more likely than children of native-born citizens to lack a primary provider. Immigrant women without access to prenatal care are four times more likely to deliver low birth-weight infants than immigrant women who have received prenatal care. “70 percent of Americans believe that a renewal of SCHIP should include legal immigrant children,” said Green. "Passage of this bill will make it possible for thousands of legal immigrant children and pregnant women to enroll in health care coverage who were unable to before." During these tough economic times, millions of Americans are losing their jobs and health care and state budgets are being stretched. The immediate expansion of SCHIP and the inclusion of ICHIA will be more cost-effective for taxpayers and states, and will bring direct relief to families who would otherwise have to rely on costly emergency room care. “Children cannot insure themselves. It is our responsibility to make sure that every child’s needs are met and that includes access to health care. A renewal of SCHIP will help provide America's children with a healthy foundation for them to grow and succeed,” said Green.# # #
01.09.2009	Houston, TX - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) in collaboration with the Sallie Mae Fund will host a free seminar to provide parents and students with information on how to finance their college education. The free "Paying for College" Workshop will help them learn about applying to and paying for college. The event will be held Monday, January 26 at 6:30 p.m. at the Milby High School Cafeteria located at 1601 Broadway in Houston. Admissions and financial aid experts will offer information about accessing grants, scholarships, government sponsored loans, and other financial aid information. Students and parents will receive free financial planning and paying for college resources. The Sallie Mae Fund will be giving a junior or senior student the chance to win a $500 scholarship at the workshop. Those wishing to attend the workshop may RSVP at www.salliemaefund.org or sign up on site. “Every child should have the opportunity to attend college,” Green said. “This seminar is intended to provide parents and students with the tools and information they need to make the college dream a reality, and will provide them with resources to best finance their education.” Research conducted by the Sallie Mae Fund shows that three out of four young adults have indicated that had they been aware of their financial aid options, they would have continued their education. A lack of financial aid knowledge among low-income and minority populations creates barriers to higher education. “Obtaining a job in today’s economy is tough enough without the additional hurdle of not having a college education. College graduates have the training and qualifications needed for many of the highest-paying and fastest growing jobs in our economy,” said Green. WHAT: PAYING FOR COLLEGE WORSHOP Hosted by Congressman Gene Green and the Sallie Mae Foundation *The financial aid process * Admissions process *Scholarships *Grants WHEN: MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2009 6:30 – 8:00 PM WHERE: Milby High School - Cafeteria1601 Broadway Houston, TX 77012 For more information and additional resources, visit the following websites: https://www.salliemae.com https://www.fafsa.ed.gov/ https://studentaid2.ed.gov/getmoney/fin_aid_wizard/ # # #
01.08.2009	Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Gene Green today announced that he will serve on four different subcommittees as a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. With these assignments, Green will help oversee a number of issues including energy and the environment, health, commerce and trade, and agency oversight. "I have been an active member on each of the subcommittees previously, and am honored to now serve on the four subcommittees on Energy and Commerce for the first time in my career," said Green. "These assignments will allow me to get out in front on critical issues facing our District and our nation. I look forward to working with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle during the 111th Congress." As a member of the Subcommittee on Health, Rep. Green will help guide public health policy, hospital construction, and health protection in general, including Medicare, Medicaid, children’s health care, and national health insurance. Representative Green will be a member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment which will have jurisdiction over national energy and environmental protection policy, as well as hazardous waste policy, Superfund, renewable and nuclear energy, among others. He will also sit on the Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection which has oversight of interstate and foreign commerce, the regulation of commercial practices, and toxic substances. Finally, Representative Green will serve on the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations which has responsibility for oversight of agencies, departments, and programs and conducting investigations on the agencies under the jurisdiction of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. "Energy and Commerce will play a vital role in the 111th Congress and the new administration,” said Green. “I am privileged to have a voice on these issues and will keep a watch on how each piece of legislation affects the 29th District and our country."
01.07.2009	Houston, TX - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will host his first series of Town Hall meetings of the 111th Congress. As part of his effort to remain open and accessible to his constituents, Representative Green will hold three Town Hall meetings beginning January 17th, with a second round of three taking place on January 24th. This series of Town Hall meetings also highlight the four community colleges that serve our area. Residents of the 29th Congressional District are encouraged to attend and express their views and concerns. Congressman Green will discuss a wide variety of issues, including any that are raised at the meetings by constituents of the District. More Town Hall meetings are scheduled to be held later in the year. “I encourage our constituents to come to any of the Town Hall meetings,” said Rep. Gene Green. “Hearing from the District lets us know what issues are important to them, and I can return to Washington better equipped to represent their interests. The gatherings also give us a chance to tell them what we are doing in Congress.” WHAT: CONGRESSMAN GENE GREEN TOWN HALL MEETINGS WHEN: Saturday, January 17, 2009 @ 9:00 AM, 11:00AM, and 1 PM And Saturday, January 24, 2009 @ 9:00 AM, 11:00AM, and 1 PM WHERE: Saturday, January 17th @ 9:00 a.m. Houston Community College - Northeast 555 Community College Drive Codwell Hall, Amphiteatro Saturday, January 17th @ 11:00 a.m. San Jacinto College – North Campus 5800 Uvalde Slovacek Student Center 2nd Floor, Monument Room Saturday, January 17th @ 1:00 p.m. Lee College – Baytown 200 Lee Drive at Market Street Tucker Hall Auditorium Saturday, January 24th @ 9:00 a.m. Houston Community College – Southeast 6815 Rustic Avenue Angela Morales Blvd Lecture Hall Saturday, January 24th @ 11:00 a.m. Houston Community College – Northline 8001 Fulton Street Community Room Saturday, January 24th @ 1:00 p.m. Lone Star College – Greenspoint Center 250 N. Sam Houston Pkwy. E. Room # 306 ###
11.12.2008	Washington, DC - More than 75 health advocacy organizations announced a new campaign to support legislation that would end a two-year Medicare waiting period for people with disabilities today. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) hosted representatives of the Medicare Rights Center in the U.S. Capitol Building for the launch of the Coalition to End the Two-Year Wait for Medicare. “Individuals who are stuck in the 24 month waiting period are already qualified as disabled and it is unbelievable that this vulnerable population is forced to go without health insurance for two years because the cannot afford to pay for COBRA coverage or individual insurance before they qualify for Medicare coverage,” Green said. “I am happy to announce that this new coalition will provide a loud voice for the disabled, and we’ll be doing all we can to make sure Congress can hear it.” At any one time about 1.5 million people who have a disability that prevents them from working are caught in a two-year waiting period for Medicare. The waiting period comes on top of an initial wait for the Social Security Administration to determine eligibility for disability insurance (SSDI) plus a five-month waiting period to begin receiving SSDI payments. About a quarter of disabled people waiting for Medicare have no health insurance at all during the two years, and 40 percent have coverage only part of the time. Lack of coverage can result in worsened health and new medical problems that take their toll on both prospective beneficiaries and the taxpayers who must eventually foot the bill. Green has introduced the Ending the Medicare Waiting Period Act (H.R. 154), which would phase out the two-year waiting period over ten years and, for the interim, create a process by which individuals with life-threatening diseases could be entirely exempt from the wait requirement. Green’s bill and its companion in the Senate (S.2102) will be the principal legislative vehicles for the Coalition’s agenda. Members of the Coalition to End the Two-Year Wait for Medicare: Alpha-1 Foundation Alpha-1 Association Alzheimer’s Association American Academy of Neurology Professional Association American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD) American Autoimmune Related Diseases Association American Cancer Society – Cancer Action Network ACCSES American Council for the Blind (ACB) American Foundation for the Blind American Network of Community Options and Resources (ANCOR) American Psychological Association Amputee Coalition of America Amyloidosis Support Groups Arthritis Foundation Association for Frontotemporal Dementias Association of Programs for Rural Independent Living (APRIL) Autism Society of America Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law Benign Essential Blepharospasm Research Foundation (BEBRF) Brain Injury Association of America Breast Cancer Network of Strength Center for Medicare Advocacy CFC International Children's Tumor Foundation Coalition for Pulmonary Fibrosis Community Health Charities of America COPD Foundation Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Disability Policy Collaboration Dystonia Medical Research Foundation Easter Seals Ehlers Danlos National Foundation Epilepsy Foundation Families USA HIV Medicine Association Incontinentia Pigmenti International Foundation Independence Care System International Pemphigus and Pemphigold Foundation Kennedy's Disease Association Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Lupus Foundation of America MAP Rx Mental Health America Medicare Rights Center Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America (MGFA) National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys (NAELA) National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors (NASTAD) National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) National Association of People with AIDS National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare National Council on Independent Living (NCIL) National Disability Rights Network National Health Council National Kidney Foundation National Marfan Foundation National Multiple Sclerosis Society National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) North American Brain Tumor Coalition (NABTC) National Patient Advocate Foundation (NPAF) NISH NTM Info & Research Paralyzed Veterans of America Shwachman Diamond Syndrome Foundation Spina Bifida Association STARS The AIDS Institute The Arc of the United States United Cerebral Palsy United Spinal Association Village Care of New York ###
10.07.2008	Houston, TX – It’s time for the annual Military Academy Day, hosted by U.S. Rep. Gene Green. This free workshop is designed to help high school students learn about and apply for U.S. Service Academies. Representatives from the Naval, Air Force, U.S. Military and Merchant Marine Academies will answer questions and provide information about the application and nomination processes. United States Military Academy at West Point United States Naval Academy at Annapolis United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York For more information, please contact Shirley Gonzalez at 281-999-5879. Where: Houston Community College Southeast 6815 Rustic Ave., Houston, TX 77087 When: Saturday, October 11 9:00 a.m. ###
09.26.2008	Washington, D.C. – The Comprehensive Tuberculosis Elimination Act of 2008 (H.R. 1532), designed to end tuberculosis as a public health threat in the United States, will be sent to the president for his signature after passing the U.S. House Sept. 24 and the U.S. Senate today. The companion bill (S. 1551) was introduced by Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) and Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas). “Texas has some of the highest tuberculosis rates in the United States with over 1,500 cases and Houston had well over 100 confirmed cases of tuberculosis in 2007, which shows we need to remain vigilant in the fight against the disease domestically,” said U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston), the bill’s sponsor. “I am happy I was able to work with Sen. Hutchison to address this extremely important public health issue.” Every year there are about nine million new tuberculosis cases in the world and 1.7 million die from the disease. In the United States in 2007, more than 13,293 people suffered from active tuberculosis. An estimated 10 million to 15 million have latent tuberculosis, which eventually becomes active in approximately 10 percent of cases. At current rates tuberculosis could kill 30 million people over the next decade. “We’re looking to prevent tuberculosis, detect it in the population and treat people who already suffer from it,” Green said. “With an infectious disease, every time you successfully treat someone you are preventing several more cases.” Green’s bill aims to defeat tuberculosis with a three-pronged attack suggested by the Institute of Medicine. In its report Ending Neglect: The Elimination of Tuberculosis in the U.S., the Institute found that with sufficient funding for research and development and prevention and control activities tuberculosis could be eliminated as a public health problem in the United States. The Institute’s report also found that a resurgence of tuberculosis in the late 1980s and early 1990s was largely due to reductions in federal funding designated to fight the disease. Green said his bill would allow researchers to develop more accurate diagnostic tests. Current tests don’t provide adequate detection of tuberculosis in children or people who are also infected with HIV. Green also said his bill could help scientists fight the growing threat of drug-resistant strains of the disease. The bill’s specifics include $1.7 billion in authorized funding over five years for a variety of current and proposed federal efforts to fight tuberculosis. According to information from Green’s office, it would: Authorize grants within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to fund a wide variety of projects to prevent, control, and eventually eliminate tuberculosisReauthorize the Advisory Council on the Elimination of Tuberculosis, which coordinates federal efforts to control the disease and would develop a specific plan to eliminate it in the United StatesProvide funds for the CDC to expand research and development of new drugs, diagnostic tools and vaccinesProvide for a federal tuberculosis task force to recommend new tools to eliminate tuberculosisDirect the National Institutes of Health to expand basic and clinical tuberculosis research, investigate the relationship between tuberculosis and HIV, and develop a tuberculosis vaccine
09.25.2008	Washington, D.C. – A bill that would increase funding for community health centers that provide medical care to people who lack insurance or have low incomes passed the U.S. House today and will be sent the president, who is expected to sign it into law. The Health Centers Renewal Act of 2008 (H.R. 1343) would provide more than $2 billion annually to build and expand health centers in medically underserved areas. “This bill will help satisfy a dire need for more and better health care in communities like ours in east Harris County. There are a million people in the Houston area without health insurance, but only ten federally-qualified health centers,” said U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston), the bill’s sponsor. Green said the bill was part of his ongoing effort to bring better health care to residents of his district. “Right now the three community health centers in our district are El Centro de Corazon and Denver Harbor Clinic in Houston and the Pasadena Health Center,” Green said. “This bill will help accomplish our goal to expand services to other neighborhoods, including North Side Houston, Jacinto City, Galena Park, and Woodland Acres Communities.” Green said the health centers are a “vital safety net” for 47 million people in the United States who can’t afford insurance, and he expects his legislation will allow health centers to help more than 22 million patients over the next five years, a greater than 50 percent increase over current capacity. “These community health centers have demonstrated time and time again that if properly funded by Congress they can meet our country’s tremendous need for quality, affordable health care,” he said. The Health Centers Renewal Act reauthorizes the Community Health Centers program, the National Health Service Corps, the Rural Health Care Programs, and the Primary Dental Health Workforce Programs. It also contains a revision of the time frame for certifying rural health clinics under the Medicare program, a provision extending eligibility to the District of Columbia and the Territories of the United States for the State Loan Repayment Program, and a provision related to the emergency response coordination of primary care providers. The bill’s passage was the result of a bipartisan compromise reached after several months of negotiations in the House and Senate. The Senate passed HR 1343 under unanimous consent Sept. 24. Federally-qualified health centres in Green’s district: El Centro de Corazon: 5001 Navigation, Houston. (713) 926-1849. Pasadena Health Center: 324 Pasadena Boulevard, Suite 1001, Pasadena. (713) 554-1091. Denver Harbor Clinic 424 Hahlo Street, Houston. (713) 674-3326.
09.24.2008	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) is concerned that poisonous dioxins from the Channel’s San Jacinto Waste Pits may have spread to adjacent areas in the wake of Hurricane Ike’s storm surge that swept up the San Jacinto River beginning Sept. 13. After discussing the situation at a hearing today with the EPA’s top Superfund official, Green said the EPA would investigate all 29 Superfund sites potentially affected by the category two hurricane starting this week. Seventeen sites in Louisiana and seven in Texas have been preliminarily inspected so far, and the EPA set a goal of completing their evaluation of the hurricane’s impact on Superfund sites by Oct. 8. The San Jacinto Waste Pits site is not among those inspected so far. At the hearing, which Green conducted as chairman of the Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee, he emphasized the gravity of the situation to EPA Assistant Administrator for Solid Waste and Emergency Response Susan Bodine. “I am deeply concerned that these dioxins could have been spread to an even wider area. The [San Jacinto] River drains into Galveston Bay which produces more seafood than any other estuary except the Chesapeake,” Green said. Green added that “uncontrolled human exposure” was his primary concern because he had seen his constituents catching fish and crabs in the dioxin-contaminated San Jacinto River despite posted warnings, and the hurricane could have pushed contaminated material downstream and into neighborhoods along the San Jacinto River. The situation at the San Jacinto Waste Pits has not been officially classified as “uncontrolled human exposure” yet. However, in response to a question from Green, Bodine said EPA’s guidelines would classify a site as “uncontrolled human exposure” when people are consuming food caught in the area despite official warnings. Green recounted what he had seen on a Sept. 22 tour of Baytown, a low-lying city in his district hit hard by the storm surge. Property had been damaged by contaminated flood water, he said, and a constituent found a barrel containing an unknown substance that had washed up with the surge, which prompted a call to the local hazardous materials crew for removal. Green also said he would consider supporting reinstatement of a Superfund fee if the Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee finds that a lack of financial resources is hindering clean-up of contaminated sites or contributing to uncontrolled human exposure to toxins. ###
09.22.2008	Houston, TX – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) led a bipartisan group of Members of Congress from Texas in asking FEMA to establish disaster recovery centers in parts of their state severely affected by Hurricane Ike. Green said disaster recovery centers are one-stop information sources for hurricane victims who often don’t know where to turn. The centers provide recovery program information and are staffed by representatives of local, state and federal and volunteer agencies. The centers would also offer disaster assistance registration, which would reduce the heavy volume of calls to FEMA’s overburdened phone lines. In a letter sent Friday, Green said many Texans were still unable to return home and “hundreds of thousands of [his] constituents are left facing significant rebuilding and recovery efforts.” Green also said 11 recovery centers were set up in Houston after Tropical Storm Allison in 2001, and that Ike would require even more. The letter’s other signers were Reps. Ron Paul (R-Lake Jackson), Ted Poe (R-Humble), Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands), Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-Houston), John Carter (R-Round Rock), John Culberson (R-Houston), Mike McCaul (R-Austin), Nick Lampson (D-Stafford), Chet Edwards (D-Waco), Al Green (D-Houston), and Kay Granger (R-Fort Worth).
09.17.2008	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) has asked congressional leaders to fully fund a program that reduces heat- and cold-related deaths by helping people with limited and fixed incomes pay their utility bills. Green and Republican Chip Pickering of Mississippi spearheaded a bipartisan letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader John Boehner, and the Democratic and Republican leaders of the Appropriations Committee asking for at least $3.12 billion in additional funding for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Thirty-six other members of Congress also signed the letter. “Many households must make the tough choice between paying their energy bills or buying food or medicine as energy costs are consuming up to 30 percent of monthly household incomes,” Green said in the letter. “In addition, the advent of severe weather is fueling demand; the heartlands are struggling with sustained summer heat even as citizens in other regions gird for what will assuredly be an equally difficult winter.” According to a heat mortality study conducted by Dr. Laurence Kalkstein of the University of Miami and Dr. Scott Greene of the University of Oklahoma in 2007, an average of 24 people in the Houston area die needlessly each summer because of the heat. Thirty-two million households qualified for help paying their utility bills this year through LIHEAP, but only five million actually received help because of limited funds. Congress has authorized up to $5.1 billion for LIHEAP, but only $1.98 billion has been appropriated. “Rising energy costs have reduced the purchasing power of LIHEAP grants. If Congress adjourns without addressing this problem, states like Texas will be left with insufficient resources to take care of their most vulnerable citizens,” Green said. To learn more about Texas programs helping with utility bills and weatherization, and apply for assistance, visit the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs’ Web site at https://www.tdhca.state.tx.us/ea/index.htm. You can also call 1-877-399-8939 or write to the Energy Assistance Section, Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs, P.O. Box 13941, Austin, Texas 78711-3941. Tips from the Houston Fire Department to avoid heat-related medical emergencies: · Drink plenty of water and electrolyte-replacement beverages before you conduct outside activities and before you start to feel thirsty. · Avoid beverages or food sources with caffeine, alcohol or large amounts of sugar because these can actually result in the loss of body fluid. · Conduct outdoor work or exercise in the early morning or evening when it is cooler. Individuals unaccustomed to working or exercising in a hot environment need to start slowly and gradually increase heat exposure over several weeks. Take frequent breaks in the shade or in an air-conditioned facility. · A wide-brimmed, loose-fitting hat that allows ventilation helps prevent sunburn and heat-related emergencies. A tight-fitting baseball cap is not the best choice when conducting strenuous outdoors activities. Sunscreen also helps protect injury from the sun's rays and reduces the risk of sunburn. · Wear lightweight, light-colored, loose-fitting clothing that permits the evaporation of perspiration. Do not leave children, senior citizens or pets unattended in a vehicle. ###
09.17.2008	Washington, DC– U.S. Rep. Gene Green’s bill to create a national program aimed at eliminating tuberculosis gained approval from House Energy and Commerce Committee today. Green said he expected the full House to vote on the bill before Congress’s scheduled recess at the end of September. “The Comprehensive Tuberculosis Elimination Act of 2008 aims to eliminate TB domestically and would intensify efforts to prevent, detect, and treat individuals in our country with TB” Green said. According to the CDC there were 13,293 tuberculosis cases in the United States in 2007. In 2006, 91 cases of multidrug-resistant TB were reported in the United States and multidrug-resistant TB has been reported in 49 states. Green’s bill, the Comprehensive Tuberculosis Elimination Act (H.R. 1532), targets the disease from several angles. Specifically, H.R. 1532 will authorize grants within the CDC for research, education, and training projects to prevent, control and eliminate TB. The legislation also creates an Advisory Council to coordinate federal TB control activities and develop a national plan to eliminate TB in the U.S. and creates a new Federal Tuberculosis Task Force. H.R. 1532, states that the National Institutes of Health Director may expand, intensify, and coordinate research and development and related activities with respect to TB since the standard method for TB detection is more than 100 years old and the newest class of drugs to treat TB is more than 40 years old. H.R. 1532 is the House version of S. 1551 which was introduced by Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Sen Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and is awaiting Senate passage. The Energy and Commerce Committee approved the Comprehensive Tuberculosis Elimination Act with several other bills expected to pass the House with bipartisan support. “We must remain vigilant in the fight against domestic Tuberculosis. It is essential that we research and develop the tools needed to prevent TB from evolving into an epidemic we are unprepared to fight,” Green said. “The Comprehensive Tuberculosis Elimination Act of 2008 provides the means necessary to wage war against TB in the US, and hopefully in the future, the eradication of TB in this country.” ###
09.16.2008	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green’s (D-Houston) legislation to increase domestic energy supplies through expanded offshore drilling and investment in renewable energy and conservation won approval in the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 236-189. “We can no longer afford to play politics while Americans struggle to heat and cool their homes, fill their gas tanks, or lose good-paying jobs due to high energy costs,” Green said. “Our comprehensive bill will provide our nation with the conventional and renewable energy we need to fuel our economy and develop the clean energy technologies of tomorrow.” Green said his legislation, also sponsored by Natural Resources Chairman Nick Rahall (D-W. Va.) and Rep. George Miller (D-Calif.), would allow oil and gas drilling in federal waters more than 100 miles off the coast and provide for drilling between 50-100 miles off the coast at the discretion of individual states,. He said the bill will also: lower energy costs for consumers by releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR); increase research, development, and deployment of clean renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies; and invest in critical programs like the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), public transportation, and carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) research. “This legislation allows us to utilize our own domestic oil and natural gas resources and reduce our dependence on foreign countries for energy,” Green said. “America’s energy security demands an “all-of-the-above” approach to energy policy, and I will work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to enact our legislation into law.” Select provisions · Releases oil from the SPR. Rep. Nick Lampson (D-Stafford) originally introduced this provision as H.R. 6578, which passed the House in July. It would exchange nearly 10 percent of the SPR’s reserve for heavier, cheaper crude oil. This would put more high-quality oil on the market, reducing prices. · Establishes renewable energy tax credits. Similar to bipartisan bills H.R. 5351 and H.R. 6049 passed by the House earlier this year. The bill includes $18 billion in tax cuts to encourage green technology development and energy independence. · Creates a Strategic Energy Efficiency and Renewables Reserve. This was passed by the House as part of H.R. 6 in January. It creates a reserve to pay for subsequent legislation that accelerates renewable and alternative fuel development and use, promotes energy-efficient products, and promotes weatherization and utility assistance. The funds would come from drilling lease royalties. · Allows drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf. Oil and gas leasing off federal waters would be allowed beginning 100 miles off the coast. Individual states would decide whether to allow drilling from 50-100 miles off their respective coasts. Drilling would not be allowed within 50 miles of the coast. National marine monuments and marine sanctuaries will be protected from leasing. National defense areas will be excluded from leasing. The GOMESA law on leasing and moratorium areas in the eastern Gulf of Mexico would be unchanged. · Incentivizes natural gas vehicles. The bill sets a goal of increasing use of new natural gas powered vehicle. It includes tax incentives such as doubling a tax credit for homeowners who install natural gas refueling equipment. · Strengthens energy efficiency codes for buildings. This passed the House as H.R. 3221. It calls on the Energy Department to update codes so that new residential and commercial buildings will be at least 30 percent more efficient by 2010 and 50 more efficient by 2020. This could save consumers $210 billion in energy bills through 2030. · Creates incentives for energy efficient homes. This provision comes from H.R. 6078. It provides incentives for lenders to give lower interest rates to consumers who build, buy or remodel homes to increase energy efficiency. · Invests in public transportation. The bill includes the Saving Energy Through Public Transportation Act, which passed the House as H.R. 6052. It would expand service and reduce transit fares for commuter rail and buses by providing $1.7 billion in grants to transit agencies over the next two years which could benefit Houston METRO. ###
09.16.2008	Houston, TX – Residents of southeast Texas may be in need of emergency shelter, food, water and medical care. They may also need assistance repairing damaged homes and other property. The following resources are available to help hurricane victims. Special Needs Evacuation: City of Houston: 311, Harris County: 713-837-0311 Harris County Emergency Management hotline: 713-368-2741 Emergency shelters: The American Red Cross: 1-866-GET-INFO The Salvation Army: 713-752-0677 Harris County points of distribution (PODs) Food is available at every location. Some may also have water and ice. · Ripley House 4410 Navigation · Greater Jerusalem 8901 Jensen · City Courthouse 14350 Wallisville · Windsor Village UMC 6000 Heatherbrook · Zion Lutheran 3606 Beauchamp · San Jacinto 604 Highlands Woods · Baker Junior High, 9700 Spencer Highway, La Porte · Baytown Courthouse Annex, 701 West Baker, Baytown · Raul C. Martinez Annex, 1001 S. Sgt. Macario Garcia · Football Stadium, Center@San Augustine, Deer Park The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) can help in a variety of ways. To register for disaster assistance, call 1-800-621-3362 or TTD 1-800-462-7585 Housing assistance: To be eligible you must (1) have someone in the house who is U.S. citizen, non-citizen national, or qualified alien (meaning, someone, but not necessarily everyone, in the house must be a legal resident); (2) you usually live in the damaged house and were living there at the time of the disaster; (3) you are not able to live in your home now, you cannot get to your home due to the disaster, or your home requires repairs because of damage from the disaster. Second homes are not covered, and if you evacuate as a precaution and can return immediately there is no FEMA coverage. FEMA will cover repairs that are not covered by insurance that are necessary to meet the FEMA standard of “safe”, “sanitary”, or “functional.” Minor or superficial damage is likely not to be covered, repairs needed to make the house livable, or shelter costs for people not able to return due to damage to house or area, are likely to be covered. Non-Housing Assistance: This includes “necessary expenses and serious needs,” which primarily covers: (1) medical/dental expenses due to disaster, (2) disaster related funeral/burial costs, (3) Clothing; household items (room furnishings, appliances); tools required for your job; necessary educational materials (computers, school books, supplies) that were damaged in the disaster (or needed if you are evacuated long-term; (4) Clean-up items (wet/dry vacuum, dehumidifier); (5) Disaster-damaged vehicle (if insured, a claim must be filed before you seek FEMA assistance); (6) Moving and storage expenses related to the disaster (moving and storing property to avoid additional disaster damage while disaster-related repairs are being made to the home); and (7) other serious needs. Disaster Unemployment Assistance (DUA): This program provides unemployment benefits and re-employment services to individuals who have become unemployed because of major disasters. These benefits are made available to individuals not covered by other unemployment compensation programs, such as self-employed, farmers, migrant and seasonal workers, and those who have insufficient quarters to qualify for other unemployment compensation. All unemployed individuals must register with the State's employment services office before they can receive DUA benefits. Legal Services Assistance: Volunteer lawyers typically provide services including: (1) Assistance with insurance claims (life, medical, property, etc.); (2) Counseling on landlord/tenant problems; (3) Assisting in consumer protection matters, remedies, and procedures; (4) Replacement of wills and other important legal documents destroyed in a major disaster. Access to health care: Harris County Hospital District’s Ask Your Nurse Program: 713-633-2255 (24 hours a day) For help with utilities: • CenterPoint Energy (electricity): 713-207-2222 • CenterPoint Energy (gas): 713-659-2111 • Direct Energy (business): 877-877-3268; (residential) 888-305-3828 • TXU Energy (business): 888-399-5501; (residential) 800-242-9113 For help with transportation: • Metropolitan Transit Authority: 713-635-4000 • Texas Department of Transportation (road condition information): 1-800-452-9292 • Houston Airport System: 281-233-3000 ###
09.16.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) joined U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R–Texas) and six other members of the Texas Congressional delegation to coordinate their joint efforts to secure federal funding for the recovery from Hurricane Ike before the end of September. Green was joined by Reps. Al Green (D-Houston) and Louie Gohmert (R-Tyler) whose districts were also directly impacted by the hurricane. Also in attendance were Reps. Chet Edwards (D-Waco), Kay Granger (R-Ft. Worth), John Carter (R-Round Rock), and Ciro Rodriquez (D-San Antonio), all of whom serve on the House Appropriations Committee. All the Members of Congress stressed their resolve in delivering federal funding for recovery efforts from Hurricane Ike before Congress adjourns for the election season. “Ike tore through the eastern part of our district in Baytown. I saw the devastation through the weekend and arrived in Washington late last night,” Green said. “Much of our district is still without power, from downtown Houston all the way out to Baytown. The situation is improving compared to yesterday, but full recovery will be a long road.” Green said he and his staff have been on the ground to help with the recovery effort. “We’re making sure those P.O.D. centers that FEMA is staffing work seamlessly today. Representatives from my staff are actually at these P.O.D.s [points of distribution] because we don’t have power in our offices in the district. FEMA is doing a good job so far and it seems we've avoided the major mistakes of Katrina,” he said. Green noted that Texans can contact the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for assistance by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or visiting https://www.FEMAEvacHotels.com. Green said the group of Texas lawmakers is working to attach disaster funding for Hurricane Ike recovery to the upcoming Continuing Resolution (C.R.). The C.R. is a broad spending measure that will be considered by Congress this working session. ###
09.09.2008	Houston, TX – Congressman Gene Green’s semi-annual Sallie Mae Fund Paying for College Workshop is back again this month. The free workshop is designed to help students and their families from around the 29th Congressional District learn about the benefits of a college education and how to secure grants, scholarships and loans. Green will attend the workshop, which is presented by the Sallie Mae Fund in partnership with the National Association for College Admission Counseling. One lucky attendee will win a $500 scholarship toward the cost of a college education. Where: E.L. Furr Senior High School auditorium 520 Mercury Drive, Houston When: Monday, September 29 7:00 p.m. Why: Research from The Sallie Mae Fund shows that a lack of financial aid knowledge among low-income and minority populations creates barriers to higher education. Nearly three out of four young adults indicated they would have gone to college if they had been aware of their financial aid options.African Americans and Hispanics are among those with the lowest educational achievement levels. The U.S. Department of Education estimates that, if current trends continue, of every 100 African-American kindergarteners, 87 will graduate from high school, but only 18 will achieve a bachelor's degree by age 29. For every 100 Hispanic children entering kindergarten, 63 will graduate from high school and only 11 will obtain a bachelor's degree by the age of 29.According to the U.S. Department of Labor, jobs for those with bachelor's degrees grew by 1.8 million during the past 10 years compared to a loss of nearly 700,000 jobs for those with only a high school diploma.Graduating from college pays lifelong dividends. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, college graduates earn in excess of $1 million more during their lifetimes on average than high school dropouts. ###
08.20.2008	Washington, DC – The June 11 Goodyear plant explosion in Houston, Texas that killed one employee and injured seven others was caused by a blocked pressure-release valve, the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (CSB) announced today. Following the blast, Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) called for the CSB to conduct an investigation, saying it was the only independent federal agency charged with uncovering the root causes of chemical accidents. Green is chairman of the Subcommittee on Environment and Hazardous Materials, which has jurisdiction over the CSB. “I am relieved that the CSB heeded our call to proceed with an investigation of this tragic accident.” Green said. “Workplace accidents are far too common and we must ensure we don’t make the same mistakes twice when hazardous materials are involved. Today we have learned that a pressure relief system error likely caused the loss of a life, which should be a wake-up call to companies operating similar equipment.” Chairman Green met with CSB Chairman John Bresland in July to get an update on the status of the CSB investigation and discuss the CSB’s essential functions. The two discussed increased communication and cooperation between the CSB and Congress. “In Texas, we are grateful to the CSB for their important work following the BP Texas City explosion in 2005,” Green remarked. “I look forward to working with the CSB leadership to ensure that they have all the necessary resources and authority to do their job, which is essential to worker safety in Texas’s chemical industry.” In a CSB press release, Bresland said the continuing investigation into the Goodyear accident “would likely focus on the company’s practices for managing, inspecting, and maintaining relief systems; training operators; and accounting for workers during emergencies.”
08.12.2008	Houston, Texas – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) welcomed the opening of a new enrollment center for the recently-mandated Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) program on Thursday. The center is located in Green’s district at 2900 Woodridge Drive near the Gulfgate Center in Houston. “Trying to plug the security holes at the Port of Houston is daunting because there are so many workers who need access,” Green said. “This additional enrollment center should make the process easier and we’re happy to welcome it to our community.” The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) initially estimated 30,000 workers would need a TWIC at the Port of Houston, but the Port itself has estimated the number is closer to 350,000. Green said he’s glad DHS recognized its initial underestimate and is opening the new office to compensate. Green’s office said it has been taking DHS six to eight weeks on average to process an application, run a background check, and produce a TWIC for each applicant. The background check includes screening through immigration, criminal and terrorist databases and requires a fingerprint for biometric identification. Green said he applied for a TWIC because he wanted to experience the same process many of his constituents are required to undergo and because he would like to make his frequent visits to the Port without an escort. "The Port of Houston is the major job creator in our district and now we know with the number of people who need these cards it's the major economic activity for our region."
07.31.2008	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas), leader of an informal group of Democrats representing energy-producing districts, unveiled a plan last night to help address the energy challenges facing our nation that have made everything from gas to groceries more expensive across the country. Green said his plan is designed to garner broader support than some recent proposals. An impressive 15 Democratic members of Congress have signed on as original cosponsors of the bill, including: Ruben Hinojosa (D-Texas), Travis Childers (D-Miss.), Bill Foster (D-Ill.), Solomon Ortiz (D-Texas), Charlie Gonzalez (D-Texas), Ciro Rodriguez (D-Texas), Bud Cramer (D-Ala.), Don Cazayoux (D-La.), Henry Cuellar (D-Texas), Nick Lampson (D-Texas), Jim Costa (D-Calif.), Dan Boren (D-Okla.), Neil Abercrombie (D-Hawaii), Charlie Melancon (D-La.) and Artur Davis (D-Ala.). “No solution will bring down energy costs overnight, but we need all options on the table to meet our energy needs,” Green said. “We all know something needs to be done, and I believe both Democrats and Republicans will be able to agree on the sensible provisions in this bill.” The “Long-term Energy Assurance and Security Enhancement Act of 2008” or “LEASE Act” includes provisions that would: allow environmentally responsible oil and gas drilling off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts and in the Gulf of Mexico; permit states the option to develop resources closer to their shores; modernize the nation’s Strategic Petroleum Reserve and allow release of oil onto the market; help curb energy speculation that may drive up prices; and establish a fund for alternative energy development, conservation, and public transportation programs . “This plan offers serious solutions to our serious problems,” Green said. “We need to be less dependent on foreign oil and develop America’s conventional and renewable resources. Developing the alternative energy sources of the future is essential, but in the meantime we must expand production of the domestic resources we already have.” The bill is composed of three major sections. The first section allows drilling in certain areas of the Gulf of Mexico and removes the federal moratorium on leasing in federal waters more than 100 miles from the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. However, the federal moratorium on areas between 25 and 100 miles from the coast would remain in effect unless the governor of a coastal state made a special request to the Interior Department. The Interior Department would then have the option of approving or denying a governor’s request if leasing would cause an unreasonable risk to people or the marine and coastal environments. Leases would not be allowed within 25 miles of the coast. Twenty-five percent of revenue from the leases would go into a new “Energy Independence and Security Fund” to be used to finance alternative energy, conservation, and public transportation programs. 37.5 percent would go to nearby states, 25 percent would go to the U.S. Treasury, and 12.5 percent would go to the Land and Water Conservation Fund. The second section of Green’s bill is designed to curb speculation in energy markets. It would direct the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to use its emergency powers to curb excessive speculation that may lead to artificially inflated energy prices. “Our goal here is to make sure the consumer price of energy accurately reflects supply and demand,” Green said. The bill’s final section would change the way the federal government manages the national Strategic Petroleum Reserve, a provision originally proposed in H.R. 6578 introduced by Congressman Nick Lampson (D-TX). It would require the Energy Department to sell 70 million barrels of light crude oil and replace it with the same amount of heavy crude. “This will make government policy compatible with our modern refining capacity, and the release of oil on the market could help reduce prices and combat the effect of market speculation,” Green said. ###
07.31.2008	Washington, D.C. – Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee Chairman Gene Green (D-Texas), Rep. Mike Thompson (D-Calif.), a founding member of the Congressional E-waste Working Group introduced a resolution today (H.Res. 1395) expressing the opposition of the U.S. House of Representatives to the federal policy allowing toxic electronic waste, or “e-waste” exports to developing nations. The resolution also calls for the U.S. to join other developed nations to ban such trade. “We have introduced this resolution today to draw Congressional and public attention to this pressing problem,” Green said. “Many Americans are unaware that discarded electronics contain lead, mercury, and other toxics and end up being salvaged under inhumane conditions in the developing world.” Rapid innovation in information technology and consumer electronics means a high turnover rate for electronic devices. Discarded televisions, computers and other electronics amounted to more than 2.6 million tons of e-waste in 2005, the latest year for which EPA data is available. E-waste disposal is a burden on communities working to reduce the cost and environmental impact of waste, especially since many electronic products contain toxic chemicals such as lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium and brominated flame retardants. State and local governments, manufacturers, retailers, and environmental groups are making progress on recycling e-waste, but these efforts accounted for just 330,000 tons in 2005, or roughly 13 percent of e-waste. The e-waste problem often gets worse right when the consumer thinks they have done the right thing by recycling. E-waste collected in the United States for recycling or reuse is often exported to developing nations like China, Ghana, India, Nigeria, Pakistan, and Thailand for unsafe salvage and metals recovery, according to estimates cited by the Department of Commerce. “I am encouraged by the efforts to improve e-waste recycling in the U.S., but progress is an illusion when ‘recycling’ means exporting e-waste to be picked over by scavengers under hazardous conditions,” Green said. In towns like Guiyu in China, toxic e-waste is burned in open fires by children with no safety equipment, creating extremely toxic conditions. The documentary film Exporting Harm, the January 2008 National Geographic, and other media and government sources have popularized this issue recently. Making matters even worse, toxic lead recovered from American e-waste in China may make a return trip when it is used to manufacture children’s jewelry sold in the U.S., according to a recent study reported in the Wall Street Journal. “If we export our e-waste improperly, it can come back to haunt us,” Green said. “Instead, we should create jobs by recycling it properly at home.” Almost all other developed nations ban the export of toxic e-waste to developing nations, but the EPA has determined that most toxic e-waste is not subject to export restrictions. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act regulates the export of hazardous waste from the United States to other nations, but the EPA has determined that much e-waste is excluded or exempted from the definitions of “waste” and “hazardous waste” under the Act, a major environmental gap in regulation. “The EPA regulates exports of ‘hazardous waste’ but it imposes little or no regulation on e-waste,” Green said. “If the EPA cannot or will not act to halt the toxic e-waste trade to developing nations, then Congress should take action.”
07.31.2008	Washington, D.C.– Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee Chairman Gene Green (D-Texas), Rep. Mike Thompson (D-Calif.), a founding member of the Congressional E-waste Working Group introduced a resolution today (H.Res. 1395) expressing the opposition of the U.S. House of Representatives to the federal policy allowing toxic electronic waste, or “e-waste” exports to developing nations. The resolution also calls for the U.S. to join other developed nations to ban such trade. “We have introduced this resolution today to draw Congressional and public attention to this pressing problem,” Green said. “Many Americans are unaware that discarded electronics contain lead, mercury, and other toxics and end up being salvaged under inhumane conditions in the developing world.” Rapid innovation in information technology and consumer electronics means a high turnover rate for electronic devices. Discarded televisions, computers and other electronics amounted to more than 2.6 million tons of e-waste in 2005, the latest year for which EPA data is available. E-waste disposal is a burden on communities working to reduce the cost and environmental impact of waste, especially since many electronic products contain toxic chemicals such as lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium and brominated flame retardants. State and local governments, manufacturers, retailers, and environmental groups are making progress on recycling e-waste, but these efforts accounted for just 330,000 tons in 2005, or roughly 13 percent of e-waste. The e-waste problem often gets worse right when the consumer thinks they have done the right thing by recycling. E-waste collected in the United States for recycling or reuse is often exported to developing nations like China, Ghana, India, Nigeria, Pakistan, and Thailand for unsafe salvage and metals recovery, according to estimates cited by the Department of Commerce. “I am encouraged by the efforts to improve e-waste recycling in the U.S., but progress is an illusion when ‘recycling’ means exporting e-waste to be picked over by scavengers under hazardous conditions,” Green said. In towns like Guiyu in China, toxic e-waste is burned in open fires by children with no safety equipment, creating extremely toxic conditions. The documentary film Exporting Harm, the January 2008 National Geographic, and other media and government sources have popularized this issue recently. Making matters even worse, toxic lead recovered from American e-waste in China may make a return trip when it is used to manufacture children’s jewelry sold in the U.S., according to a recent study reported in the Wall Street Journal. “If we export our e-waste improperly, it can come back to haunt us,” Green said. “Instead, we should create jobs by recycling it properly at home.” Almost all other developed nations ban the export of toxic e-waste to developing nations, but the EPA has determined that most toxic e-waste is not subject to export restrictions. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act regulates the export of hazardous waste from the United States to other nations, but the EPA has determined that much e-waste is excluded or exempted from the definitions of “waste” and “hazardous waste” under the Act, a major environmental gap in regulation. “The EPA regulates exports of ‘hazardous waste’ but it imposes little or no regulation on e-waste,” Green said. “If the EPA cannot or will not act to halt the toxic e-waste trade to developing nations, then Congress should take action.”###
07.31.2008	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas), leader of an informal group of Democrats representing energy-producing districts, unveiled a plan last night to help address the energy challenges facing our nation that have made everything from gas to groceries more expensive across the country. Green said his plan is designed to garner broader support than some recent proposals. An impressive 15 Democratic members of Congress have signed on as original cosponsors of the bill, including: Ruben Hinojosa (D-Texas), Travis Childers (D-Miss.), Bill Foster (D-Ill.), Solomon Ortiz (D-Texas), Charlie Gonzalez (D-Texas), Ciro Rodriguez (D-Texas), Bud Cramer (D-Ala.), Don Cazayoux (D-La.), Henry Cuellar (D-Texas), Nick Lampson (D-Texas), Jim Costa (D-Calif.), Dan Boren (D-Okla.), Neil Abercrombie (D-Hawaii), Charlie Melancon (D-La.) and Artur Davis (D-Ala.). “No solution will bring down energy costs overnight, but we need all options on the table to meet our energy needs,” Green said. “We all know something needs to be done, and I believe both Democrats and Republicans will be able to agree on the sensible provisions in this bill.” The “Long-term Energy Assurance and Security Enhancement Act of 2008” or “LEASE Act” includes provisions that would: allow environmentally responsible oil and gas drilling off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts and in the Gulf of Mexico; permit states the option to develop resources closer to their shores; modernize the nation’s Strategic Petroleum Reserve and allow release of oil onto the market; help curb energy speculation that may drive up prices; and establish a fund for alternative energy development, conservation, and public transportation programs . “This plan offers serious solutions to our serious problems,” Green said. “We need to be less dependent on foreign oil and develop America’s conventional and renewable resources. Developing the alternative energy sources of the future is essential, but in the meantime we must expand production of the domestic resources we already have.” The bill is composed of three major sections. The first section allows drilling in certain areas of the Gulf of Mexico and removes the federal moratorium on leasing in federal waters more than 100 miles from the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. However, the federal moratorium on areas between 25 and 100 miles from the coast would remain in effect unless the governor of a coastal state made a special request to the Interior Department. The Interior Department would then have the option of approving or denying a governor’s request if leasing would cause an unreasonable risk to people or the marine and coastal environments. Leases would not be allowed within 25 miles of the coast. Twenty-five percent of revenue from the leases would go into a new “Energy Independence and Security Fund” to be used to finance alternative energy, conservation, and public transportation programs. 37.5 percent would go to nearby states, 25 percent would go to the U.S. Treasury, and 12.5 percent would go to the Land and Water Conservation Fund. The second section of Green’s bill is designed to curb speculation in energy markets. It would direct the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to use its emergency powers to curb excessive speculation that may lead to artificially inflated energy prices. “Our goal here is to make sure the consumer price of energy accurately reflects supply and demand,” Green said. The bill’s final section would change the way the federal government manages the national Strategic Petroleum Reserve, a provision originally proposed in H.R. 6578 introduced by Congressman Nick Lampson (D-TX). It would require the Energy Department to sell 70 million barrels of light crude oil and replace it with the same amount of heavy crude. “This will make government policy compatible with our modern refining capacity, and the release of oil on the market could help reduce prices and combat the effect of market speculation,” Green said. ###
07.23.2008	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) and other Members of Congress urged Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne to ensure oil and gas companies continue to diligently develop land leased from the federal government in a letter sent today. “Exploration of domestic oil and gas fields is an important component of any sensible plan to bring down energy costs,” Green said. “In order to get the most out of our country’s rich natural resources, we should continue to properly develop millions of acres already leased for exploration.” In the letter, Green acknowledged that leasing land for potential exploration is “only the first step” in a five-to-over ten year process towards potential production. He also said exploration is an expensive proposition with no guarantee that oil or natural gas will be found. He also reiterated that under current law, leases must be surrendered back to the government if they do not begin producing within a specified term. “We believe that all laws and regulations regarding federal leases should be properly enforced, and we urge the Department [of the Interior] to provide the oversight necessary to ensure that federal leases are being diligently developed,” Green said in the letter. He also asked whether the Interior Department believes leased land is being properly developed according to federal law and Interior regulations. The letter was also signed by Reps. Solomon Ortiz (D-Texas), Gene Taylor (D-MS), Jim Costa (D-Calif.), Nick Lampson (D-Texas), Don Cazayoux (D-La.), Dennis Cardoza (D-Calif), Ruben Hinojosa (D-Texas), Charlie Gonzales (D-Texas), Henry Cuellar (D-Texas), Ciro Rodriguez (D-Texas), Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-Texas), and Neil Abercrombie (D-Hawaii). Green is the leader of an informal “oil patch” caucus of Democratic members of Congress who represent oil- and gas-producing districts. He supports increasing domestic energy production by allowing exploration and drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Outer Continental Shelf. Green has also advocated selling oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, developing alternative sources of energy such as hydrogen fuel cells for cars, and improving conservation efforts in order to bring down energy costs and reduce the United States’ reliance on other countries for energy needs.
07.23.2008	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) and other Members of Congress urged Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne to ensure oil and gas companies continue to diligently develop land leased from the federal government in a letter sent today. “Exploration of domestic oil and gas fields is an important component of any sensible plan to bring down energy costs,” Green said. “In order to get the most out of our country’s rich natural resources, we should continue to properly develop millions of acres already leased for exploration.” In the letter, Green acknowledged that leasing land for potential exploration is “only the first step” in a five-to-over ten year process towards potential production. He also said exploration is an expensive proposition with no guarantee that oil or natural gas will be found. He also reiterated that under current law, leases must be surrendered back to the government if they do not begin producing within a specified term. “We believe that all laws and regulations regarding federal leases should be properly enforced, and we urge the Department [of the Interior] to provide the oversight necessary to ensure that federal leases are being diligently developed,” Green said in the letter. He also asked whether the Interior Department believes leased land is being properly developed according to federal law and Interior regulations. The letter was also signed by Reps. Solomon Ortiz (D-Texas), Gene Taylor (D-MS), Jim Costa (D-Calif.), Nick Lampson (D-Texas), Don Cazayoux (D-La.), Dennis Cardoza (D-Calif), Ruben Hinojosa (D-Texas), Charlie Gonzales (D-Texas), Henry Cuellar (D-Texas), Ciro Rodriguez (D-Texas), Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-Texas), and Neil Abercrombie (D-Hawaii). Green is the leader of an informal “oil patch” caucus of Democratic members of Congress who represent oil- and gas-producing districts. He supports increasing domestic energy production by allowing exploration and drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Outer Continental Shelf. Green has also advocated selling oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, developing alternative sources of energy such as hydrogen fuel cells for cars, and improving conservation efforts in order to bring down energy costs and reduce the United States’ reliance on other countries for energy needs.
07.22.2008	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. Senate stamped its approval on U.S. Sen. Ted Kennedy’s bipartisan bill Health Care Safety Net Act of 2007 (S. 901) without opposition Monday. The Health Care Safety Net Act is the companion version of Rep. Gene Green’s (D-Houston) Health Centers Renewal Act of 2007 (H.R. 1343). “I’d like to thank Senator Reid and Senator Kennedy for moving quickly on this bill,” Green said. “By establishing more and better health centers in underserved areas we will be helping the most vulnerable families stay healthy. The sooner this bill becomes law, the higher America’s quality of life will be.” The legislation will authorize more funding for community health centers around the country, including three in Green’s congressional district: the Pasadena Health Center, El Centro de Corazon's Eastwood Clinic, and the Denver Harbor Clinic. The next step for this landmark piece of legislation will be for both the House and Senate to appoint a conference committee to work through differences in the two bills. Once the conference committee has completed work on the bill it will be passed again by both chambers and sent to the President for final approval.
07.22.2008	Washington, D.C. – The U.S. Senate stamped its approval on U.S. Sen. Ted Kennedy’s bipartisan bill Health Care Safety Net Act of 2007 (S. 901) without opposition Monday. The Health Care Safety Net Act is the companion version of Rep. Gene Green’s (D-Houston) Health Centers Renewal Act of 2007 (H.R. 1343). “I’d like to thank Senator Reid and Senator Kennedy for moving quickly on this bill,” Green said. “By establishing more and better health centers in underserved areas we will be helping the most vulnerable families stay healthy. The sooner this bill becomes law, the higher America’s quality of life will be.” The legislation will authorize more funding for community health centers around the country, including three in Green’s congressional district: the Pasadena Health Center, El Centro de Corazon's Eastwood Clinic, and the Denver Harbor Clinic. The next step for this landmark piece of legislation will be for both the House and Senate to appoint a conference committee to work through differences in the two bills. Once the conference committee has completed work on the bill it will be passed again by both chambers and sent to the President for final approval.
07.18.2008	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas) will host his office’s 13th Annual Immunization Day on Saturday, August 2 from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. In addition to providing free immunizations for children the event will give parents an opportunity to speak with Congressman Green about preventive health initiatives. “Immunizations are one of the most important disease prevention steps we can take to protect our children,” said Congressman Green. “I hope that people will take advantage of our Immunization Day. It’s a benefit for our children and our community.” Every year several elementary schools are selected to host the event. Rep. Green would like to thank the healthcare groups who are making Immunization Day a success this year: the Texas Children’s Ronald McDonald Care Mobile Clinic, Harris County Public Health and Environmental Services, and the Harris County Hospital District’s Sheldon School-Based Clinic. WHAT: Free immunizations for children and preventive health initiative information. Bring immunization records for each child. WHEN: Saturday, August 2 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. WHERE: Janowski Elementary (HISD) - 7500 Bauman, Houston Lantrip Elementary (HISD), 100 Telephone, Houston Sheldon Elementary (Sheldon ISD), 17203 Hall Shepperd, Houston ###
07.18.2008	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) sent a letter to Friends of the San Jacinto Battleground today urging the group to join in a community effort to preserve the Battleship Texas and keep it in San Jacinto State Park. The Friends have proposed moving the Texas to Galveston. “The Texas has been at the San Jacinto Battleground for 60 years, where it has become a permanent part of Houston’s heritage,” Green said. “She attracts hundreds of thousands of people every year. It would be a shame to lose her.” Green has worked to secure $1.5 million in federal funding to preserve the Texas, the oldest remaining dreadnought battleship and the second oldest battleship of any type. Last November Texas voters approved $25 million to put the Texas in dry dock, where it could be better preserved. Without the permanent dry-dock, Green said, the Battleship Texas Foundation will be forced to find money to repair and restore the battleship every 15-20 years. In the letter Green said his office has worked with the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, the Battleship Texas Foundation, and the Texas Legislature for several years in order to permanently dock the Texas in its current location. “Preserving the Battleship Texas and keeping it permanently anchored in its current location along the Buffalo Bayou should be a priority for all those in our community,” Green wrote. Green also thanked Friends of the San Jacinto Battleground for its work to promote public awareness of the Battle of San Jacinto and the Texas Revolution. The Texas, commissioned in 1914, is the only surviving battleship to have served in both World War I and World War II. In 1948 it was decommissioned and moved to San Jacinto Battleground Park, becoming the nation’s first memorial battleship. In 1983 the Texas was placed under the stewardship of the Texas Parks and Wildlife and is permanently anchored on the Buffalo Bayou and the Houston Ship Channel. Approximately 200,000 students and tourists visit the battleship each year. The Texas is also used by several veterans and military groups. The Naval Order of the United States holds a remembrance for Pearl Harbor Day Veterans on board, and sailors who served on the Texas hold reunions there. ###
07.18.2008	Houston, TX - Congressman Green invites all residents of the 29th Congressional District to meet him and his staff at a town hall meeting or other event in their areas. Congressman Green will be talking about issues that affect the district, including energy, health care, veterans’ benefits, Medicare, and immigration. He will also answer attendees’ questions. Congressman Green’s district is composed of parts of Houston and its metro area, including Aldine, Northside and the East End, Baytown, Channelview, South Houston, Pasadena, Galena Park, and Jacinto City. For more information, contact Congressman Green’s Houston office at (281) 999-5879. Date and time Location Monday, August 4 6:30 p.m. Aldine Branch Library 11331 Airline Houston, Texas 77037 Tuesday, August 5 7:00 p.m. in cooperation with Denver Harbor Civic Club Denver Harbor Community Center 6402 Market Street Houston, Texas 77020 Wednesday, August 6 10:00 a.m. Senior Citizens Issues Forum South Houston Community Bldg. 1007 State Street South Houston, Texas 77587 Monday, August 18 10:00 a.m. Health Fair Northeast Community Center (Driver Park) 10918 ½ Bentley Street Houston, Texas 77093 Monday, August 18 7:00 pm. In cooperation with Galena Manor Civic Club Evelyn J. Churchill Community Building 1508 Hunter Street Galena Park, Texas 77547 Wednesday, August 20 6:00 p.m. Lee College Administration Building Phyllis Davis Room 909 Decker Drive Baytown, Texas 77520 Saturday, August 23 9:00 a.m. Ironworkers Union Hall 7400 Dahlia St. Houston, Texas 77012 Saturday, August 23 11:00 a.m. USW Union Hall 704 E. Pasadena Freeway (SH 225) Pasadena, TX Tuesday, Sept. 2 7:00 p.m. In cooperation with E.T.C.P. Civic Club Texaco Country Club 12800 Texaco Road Houston, Texas 77013 Wednesday, Sept. 3 6:00 p.m. Houston Community College Northline Campus 8001 Fulton Houston, Texas 77022 ###
07.18.2008	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) sent a letter to Friends of the San Jacinto Battleground today urging the group to join in a community effort to preserve the Battleship Texas and keep it in San Jacinto State Park. The Friends have proposed moving the Texas to Galveston. “The Texas has been at the San Jacinto Battleground for 60 years, where it has become a permanent part of Houston’s heritage,” Green said. “She attracts hundreds of thousands of people every year. It would be a shame to lose her.” Green has worked to secure $1.5 million in federal funding to preserve the Texas, the oldest remaining dreadnought battleship and the second oldest battleship of any type. Last November Texas voters approved $25 million to put the Texas in dry dock, where it could be better preserved. Without the permanent dry-dock, Green said, the Battleship Texas Foundation will be forced to find money to repair and restore the battleship every 15-20 years. In the letter Green said his office has worked with the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, the Battleship Texas Foundation, and the Texas Legislature for several years in order to permanently dock the Texas in its current location. “Preserving the Battleship Texas and keeping it permanently anchored in its current location along the Buffalo Bayou should be a priority for all those in our community,” Green wrote. Green also thanked Friends of the San Jacinto Battleground for its work to promote public awareness of the Battle of San Jacinto and the Texas Revolution. The Texas, commissioned in 1914, is the only surviving battleship to have served in both World War I and World War II. In 1948 it was decommissioned and moved to San Jacinto Battleground Park, becoming the nation’s first memorial battleship. In 1983 the Texas was placed under the stewardship of the Texas Parks and Wildlife and is permanently anchored on the Buffalo Bayou and the Houston Ship Channel. Approximately 200,000 students and tourists visit the battleship each year. The Texas is also used by several veterans and military groups. The Naval Order of the United States holds a remembrance for Pearl Harbor Day Veterans on board, and sailors who served on the Texas hold reunions there.###
07.18.2008	Houston, TX - Congressman Green invites all residents of the 29th Congressional District to meet him and his staff at a town hall meeting or other event in their areas. Congressman Green will be talking about issues that affect the district, including energy, health care, veterans’ benefits, Medicare, and immigration. He will also answer attendees’ questions. Congressman Green’s district is composed of parts of Houston and its metro area, including Aldine, Northside and the East End, Baytown, Channelview, South Houston, Pasadena, Galena Park, and Jacinto City. For more information, contact Congressman Green’s Houston office at (281) 999-5879. Date and time LocationMonday, August 46:30 p.m. Aldine Branch Library11331 AirlineHouston, Texas 77037 Tuesday, August 57:00 p.m. in cooperation with Denver Harbor Civic ClubDenver Harbor Community Center6402 Market StreetHouston, Texas 77020 Wednesday, August 610:00 a.m. Senior Citizens Issues ForumSouth Houston Community Bldg.1007 State StreetSouth Houston, Texas 77587 Monday, August 18 10:00 a.m. Health FairNortheast Community Center (Driver Park)10918 ½ Bentley StreetHouston, Texas 77093 Monday, August 187:00 pm. In cooperation with Galena Manor Civic ClubEvelyn J. Churchill Community Building1508 Hunter StreetGalena Park, Texas 77547 Wednesday, August 206:00 p.m. Lee College Administration BuildingPhyllis Davis Room909 Decker DriveBaytown, Texas 77520 Saturday, August 239:00 a.m. Ironworkers Union Hall7400 Dahlia St.Houston, Texas 77012 Saturday, August 2311:00 a.m. USW Union Hall704 E. Pasadena Freeway (SH 225)Pasadena, TX Tuesday, Sept. 27:00 p.m. In cooperation with E.T.C.P. Civic ClubTexaco Country Club12800 Texaco RoadHouston, Texas 77013 Wednesday, Sept. 36:00 p.m. Houston Community CollegeNorthline Campus8001 FultonHouston, Texas 77022 ###
07.18.2008	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas) will host his office’s 13th Annual Immunization Day on Saturday, August 2 from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. In addition to providing free immunizations for children the event will give parents an opportunity to speak with Congressman Green about preventive health initiatives. “Immunizations are one of the most important disease prevention steps we can take to protect our children,” said Congressman Green. “I hope that people will take advantage of our Immunization Day. It’s a benefit for our children and our community.” Every year several elementary schools are selected to host the event. Rep. Green would like to thank the healthcare groups who are making Immunization Day a success this year: the Texas Children’s Ronald McDonald Care Mobile Clinic, Harris County Public Health and Environmental Services, and the Harris County Hospital District’s Sheldon School-Based Clinic. WHAT: Free immunizations for children and preventive health initiative information. Bring immunization records for each child. WHEN: Saturday, August 2 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. WHERE: Janowski Elementary (HISD) - 7500 Bauman, Houston Lantrip Elementary (HISD), 100 Telephone, Houston Sheldon Elementary (Sheldon ISD), 17203 Hall Shepperd, Houston ###
07.16.2008	Houston, Texas – A federally-funded nanotechnology program supported by U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) is putting Houston universities at the forefront of one of the fastest-growing and potentially most valuable research fields in science. The Consortium for Nanomaterials for Aerospace Commerce and Technology (CONTACT) is a federally-funded program that brings together the University of Houston, Rice University, the Air Force Research Laboratory and five other Texas universities focused on developing and commercializing new nanomaterials for the defense aerospace industry. “I’m happy to see Houston at the cutting edge of this field,” Green said. “All of society benefits when technology advances. I expect there will be defense applications initially, and later it will be commercialized and become art of our everyday lives. I think we’re just beginning to understand the potential of this kind of research.” Jesse Carter and Michael Martin of Texas A&M University are the recipients of the CONTACT Program Student Travel Award which allows students to use award money for nanotechnology research and travel-related expenses. They have elected to travel to the University of Houston to use the renowned nanotechnology laboratories for their research studies. The CONTACT Student Travel Grant was established to bolster nanotechnology research by students currently enrolled in a nanotechnology-related program at any university in Texas. The award provides an opportunity to use state-of-the-art equipment and facilities available at the participating CONTACT Program universities including Houston, Austin, Dallas and Arlington. The CONTACT Program was launched in November 2006, and in 2007 the program received federal funding with Green’s support. The CONTACT program has now expanded into twelve research projects among seven Texas universities. To learn more about the CONTACT Program and the Student Travel Grant, please contact program director Jack Agee’s office at (713) 348 6338 or visit the website at www.contact.rice.edu. ###
07.16.2008	Houston, Texas – A federally-funded nanotechnology program supported by U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) is putting Houston universities at the forefront of one of the fastest-growing and potentially most valuable research fields in science. The Consortium for Nanomaterials for Aerospace Commerce and Technology (CONTACT) is a federally-funded program that brings together the University of Houston, Rice University, the Air Force Research Laboratory and five other Texas universities focused on developing and commercializing new nanomaterials for the defense aerospace industry. “I’m happy to see Houston at the cutting edge of this field,” Green said. “All of society benefits when technology advances. I expect there will be defense applications initially, and later it will be commercialized and become art of our everyday lives. I think we’re just beginning to understand the potential of this kind of research.” Jesse Carter and Michael Martin of Texas A&M University are the recipients of the CONTACT Program Student Travel Award which allows students to use award money for nanotechnology research and travel-related expenses. They have elected to travel to the University of Houston to use the renowned nanotechnology laboratories for their research studies. The CONTACT Student Travel Grant was established to bolster nanotechnology research by students currently enrolled in a nanotechnology-related program at any university in Texas. The award provides an opportunity to use state-of-the-art equipment and facilities available at the participating CONTACT Program universities including Houston, Austin, Dallas and Arlington. The CONTACT Program was launched in November 2006, and in 2007 the program received federal funding with Green’s support. The CONTACT program has now expanded into twelve research projects among seven Texas universities. To learn more about the CONTACT Program and the Student Travel Grant, please contact program director Jack Agee’s office at (713) 348 6338 or visit the website at www.contact.rice.edu. ###
07.15.2008	Houston, Texas – The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has awarded $643,112 to the City of Houston to measure and analyze toxic chemicals in the air around the Houston Ship Channel. The money will be used to detect volatile organic compound air toxics emissions in the Ship Channel area using a laser that can identify pollutants based on how much light the atmosphere reflects. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) said he was pleased with the EPA's decision, especially given the Houston area's history of air quality problems. "Government and industry must work together to improve our air, and this grant will give us a fantastic tool to achieve that goal by providing better data," he said. In 2006 Rice University released a report recommending immediate action to reduce atmospheric levels of butadiene, benzene, formaldehyde, and diesel particulate matter because current levels pose a “dangerously high risk of cancer and other health problems.” An Environment Texas study released in March 2007 found that the Houston-Galveston area led the nation in industrial emissions of air toxics. Green has supported the City of Houston and the University of Texas's Houston School of Public Health in their air toxics research, and he has also worked to increase federal investment to eliminate the problem. This year he requested $2.6 million for the Mickey Leland National Urban Air Toxics Research Center through the congressional appropriations process. The laser technology the grant will pay for, called Differential Absorption Light Detection and Ranging (DIAL), will be used to identify previously unknown or underestimated sources of air toxics in the Ship Channel area. ###
07.15.2008	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) called for a swift congressional override of President Bush’s veto of a Medicare bill that would block physician pay cuts today. “We need to make sure this bill becomes law as soon as possible so that doctors and patients aren’t affected,” Green said. “If there is any delay we’ll start seeing problems as of tomorrow.” The Medicare program reimburses physicians who treat seniors using a complex formula based on a number of factors. Green said the formula reduces payments to physicians when the economy goes down – a time when doctors are least able to absorb the extra costs. He said these payment reductions have caused many physicians to hold off on accepting new Medicare patients, withdraw from the program, or retire from medicine altogether. Green said he has consistently advocated a fix for the reimbursement rate in the physician payment program Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (H.R. 6331) will prevent a payment cut to physicians under Medicare for FY08 and ensures that physicians will receive payment increases of 1.1 percent for FY09; as opposed to the 10.6 percent cut they were scheduled to receive under the old formula. The Senate passed H.R. 6331 on July 9, 2008. The physician pay cut was scheduled cut to go into effect July 1, 2008, but the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) agreed to delay reimbursement for claims submitted after July 1, 2008 until July 15, 2008, before they implemented the scheduled physician payment cut rates to reimbursements to allow Congress time to act on the impending cut. Today, CMS must begin releasing payments to physicians with the 10.6 percent rate cut in effect because the President has not signed H.R. 6331 into law or vetoed the bill. Green said the Administration had indicated they intend to veto the bill. “I hope they will do so quickly so that Congress, which passed the bill with a veto proof margin, can override the veto.” ###
07.15.2008	Houston, Texas – The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has awarded $643,112 to the City of Houston to measure and analyze toxic chemicals in the air around the Houston Ship Channel. The money will be used to detect volatile organic compound air toxics emissions in the Ship Channel area using a laser that can identify pollutants based on how much light the atmosphere reflects. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) said he was pleased with the EPA's decision, especially given the Houston area's history of air quality problems. "Government and industry must work together to improve our air, and this grant will give us a fantastic tool to achieve that goal by providing better data," he said. In 2006 Rice University released a report recommending immediate action to reduce atmospheric levels of butadiene, benzene, formaldehyde, and diesel particulate matter because current levels pose a “dangerously high risk of cancer and other health problems.” An Environment Texas study released in March 2007 found that the Houston-Galveston area led the nation in industrial emissions of air toxics. Green has supported the City of Houston and the University of Texas's Houston School of Public Health in their air toxics research, and he has also worked to increase federal investment to eliminate the problem. This year he requested $2.6 million for the Mickey Leland National Urban Air Toxics Research Center through the congressional appropriations process. The laser technology the grant will pay for, called Differential Absorption Light Detection and Ranging (DIAL), will be used to identify previously unknown or underestimated sources of air toxics in the Ship Channel area. ###
07.15.2008	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) called for a swift congressional override of President Bush’s veto of a Medicare bill that would block physician pay cuts today. “We need to make sure this bill becomes law as soon as possible so that doctors and patients aren’t affected,” Green said. “If there is any delay we’ll start seeing problems as of tomorrow.” The Medicare program reimburses physicians who treat seniors using a complex formula based on a number of factors. Green said the formula reduces payments to physicians when the economy goes down – a time when doctors are least able to absorb the extra costs. He said these payment reductions have caused many physicians to hold off on accepting new Medicare patients, withdraw from the program, or retire from medicine altogether. Green said he has consistently advocated a fix for the reimbursement rate in the physician payment program Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (H.R. 6331) will prevent a payment cut to physicians under Medicare for FY08 and ensures that physicians will receive payment increases of 1.1 percent for FY09; as opposed to the 10.6 percent cut they were scheduled to receive under the old formula. The Senate passed H.R. 6331 on July 9, 2008. The physician pay cut was scheduled cut to go into effect July 1, 2008, but the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) agreed to delay reimbursement for claims submitted after July 1, 2008 until July 15, 2008, before they implemented the scheduled physician payment cut rates to reimbursements to allow Congress time to act on the impending cut. Today, CMS must begin releasing payments to physicians with the 10.6 percent rate cut in effect because the President has not signed H.R. 6331 into law or vetoed the bill. Green said the Administration had indicated they intend to veto the bill. “I hope they will do so quickly so that Congress, which passed the bill with a veto proof margin, can override the veto.” ###
07.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) was officially ratified as chairman of the Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee by the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee today. He replaces former Chairman Albert Wynn (D-Md.) who resigned from the House of Representatives in May. “We have some important issues to consider, and we look forward to rolling up our sleeves and getting a lot of substantive work done,” Green said. “We'll be working on quality of life issues that affect millions of families across the country.” The Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee's jurisdiction includes environmental protection in general, including risk assessment matters, the Safe Drinking Water Act, solid waste, hazardous waste and toxic substances, including Superfund and the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act. As chairman, Green will have the power to hold hearings and develop environmental protection legislation. “Gene Green will be an outstanding Chairman of the Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee,” said Rep. John D. Dingell (D-Mich.), Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “He has long been a valued Member of the Committee and a strong defender of the public health and the taxpayer’s dollar on a broad range of issues under the Committee’s jurisdiction. It will be a privilege to work with him in his new capacity and I congratulate him on his new chairmanship.” The subcommittee’s legislative agenda includes bills to improve chemical plant security, improve drinking water safety, and ban asbestos in the United States. Green said that as chairman he also intends to continue the subcommittee’s work on electronic waste (E-waste) issues and become involved in chemical plant safety and climate change. As part of his new workload, Green will have oversight over many aspects of federal environmental laws dealing with chemicals and environmental cleanup. He said he will closely monitor federal cleanup of the San Jacinto Waste Pits, located just north of the I-10 Bridge over the San Jacinto River. In response to a request from Green and Rep. Ted Poe (R-Humble), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) added the San Jacinto site to the Superfund list in March 2008. “We will do everything possible to make sure it is cleaned up promptly,” Green said. Recognizing the leader of the full Energy and Commerce Committee, Green said, “Chairman Dingell crafted many of our nation’s laws protecting environmental health and safety, and I am honored to have this opportunity.” Green also paid tribute to his predecessor, saying former Chairman Wynn set an impressive standard of leadership. “I appreciate his re-energizing the subcommittee, and I intend to follow that precedent,” he said. He also credited other key members of the subcommittee. “I look forward to working closely with Vice-Chair Hilda Solis (D-Calif.) who is a first-rate friend and colleague, and Ranking Member John Shadegg (R-Ariz.),” he said. “The bipartisan approach is the most powerful way to solve the problems we'll be facing, and I know Congressman Shadegg and I will have a good working relationship.” Green was elected to Congress in 1992 after a 20-year career in Texas state government. He began serving on the powerful Energy and Commerce Committee in 1997, and has served on the Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee for several terms. Green also serves on the Health, Telecommunications, and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittees, the Foreign Affairs Committee and its Western Hemisphere Subcommittee, the Standards of Official Conduct (Ethics) Committee, and the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee. He is also an at-large whip for the Democratic Party. ###
07.09.2008	Houston, Texas – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) called for a thorough investigation of the fatal June 11 explosion at a Goodyear facility in his Houston-area district today in a letter to the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (CSB). “Our community won’t settle for anything less than a thorough, independent investigation of an accident that cost human life,” Green said. Green also said the ongoing investigation of the accident by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) is a good start, but that the CSB, which investigated the 2005 explosion at a BP refinery in Texas City, is especially suited to look into this kind of industrial accident. Green’s letter praised the CSB’s work on the 2005 explosion that killed 15 and injured 150 and notes the CSB’s status as the only independent agency in the country responsible for investigating industrial chemical accidents. In the letter Green also addressed the CSB’s initial statement following the accident that it may not have enough resources, saying, “we are disturbed to learn that the CSB may not investigate the Goodyear explosion due to a lack of available resources.” “I’m asking them to investigate thoroughly or to tell me exactly what they lack,” Green said. “If they don’t have enough resources to do their job, Congress should make sure they get what they need.” The June 11 explosion and ammonia leak at the Goodyear Houston plant that makes synthetic rubber for tires killed Gloria McInnis, a resident of Green’s congressional district, and injured six others. Green is slated to be the next chairman of the Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee, which shares jurisdiction over the CSB. ###
07.09.2008	Houston, Texas – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) called for a thorough investigation of the fatal June 11 explosion at a Goodyear facility in his Houston-area district today in a letter to the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (CSB). “Our community won’t settle for anything less than a thorough, independent investigation of an accident that cost human life,” Green said. Green also said the ongoing investigation of the accident by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) is a good start, but that the CSB, which investigated the 2005 explosion at a BP refinery in Texas City, is especially suited to look into this kind of industrial accident. Green’s letter praised the CSB’s work on the 2005 explosion that killed 15 and injured 150 and notes the CSB’s status as the only independent agency in the country responsible for investigating industrial chemical accidents. In the letter Green also addressed the CSB’s initial statement following the accident that it may not have enough resources, saying, “we are disturbed to learn that the CSB may not investigate the Goodyear explosion due to a lack of available resources.” “I’m asking them to investigate thoroughly or to tell me exactly what they lack,” Green said. “If they don’t have enough resources to do their job, Congress should make sure they get what they need.” The June 11 explosion and ammonia leak at the Goodyear Houston plant that makes synthetic rubber for tires killed Gloria McInnis, a resident of Green’s congressional district, and injured six others. Green is slated to be the next chairman of the Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee, which shares jurisdiction over the CSB. ###
07.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) was officially ratified as chairman of the Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee by the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee today. He replaces former Chairman Albert Wynn (D-Md.) who resigned from the House of Representatives in May. “We have some important issues to consider, and we look forward to rolling up our sleeves and getting a lot of substantive work done,” Green said. “We'll be working on quality of life issues that affect millions of families across the country.” The Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee's jurisdiction includes environmental protection in general, including risk assessment matters, the Safe Drinking Water Act, solid waste, hazardous waste and toxic substances, including Superfund and the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act. As chairman, Green will have the power to hold hearings and develop environmental protection legislation. “Gene Green will be an outstanding Chairman of the Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee,” said Rep. John D. Dingell (D-Mich.), Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “He has long been a valued Member of the Committee and a strong defender of the public health and the taxpayer’s dollar on a broad range of issues under the Committee’s jurisdiction. It will be a privilege to work with him in his new capacity and I congratulate him on his new chairmanship.” The subcommittee’s legislative agenda includes bills to improve chemical plant security, improve drinking water safety, and ban asbestos in the United States. Green said that as chairman he also intends to continue the subcommittee’s work on electronic waste (E-waste) issues and become involved in chemical plant safety and climate change. As part of his new workload, Green will have oversight over many aspects of federal environmental laws dealing with chemicals and environmental cleanup. He said he will closely monitor federal cleanup of the San Jacinto Waste Pits, located just north of the I-10 Bridge over the San Jacinto River. In response to a request from Green and Rep. Ted Poe (R-Humble), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) added the San Jacinto site to the Superfund list in March 2008. “We will do everything possible to make sure it is cleaned up promptly,” Green said. Recognizing the leader of the full Energy and Commerce Committee, Green said, “Chairman Dingell crafted many of our nation’s laws protecting environmental health and safety, and I am honored to have this opportunity.” Green also paid tribute to his predecessor, saying former Chairman Wynn set an impressive standard of leadership. “I appreciate his re-energizing the subcommittee, and I intend to follow that precedent,” he said. He also credited other key members of the subcommittee. “I look forward to working closely with Vice-Chair Hilda Solis (D-Calif.) who is a first-rate friend and colleague, and Ranking Member John Shadegg (R-Ariz.),” he said. “The bipartisan approach is the most powerful way to solve the problems we'll be facing, and I know Congressman Shadegg and I will have a good working relationship.” Green was elected to Congress in 1992 after a 20-year career in Texas state government. He began serving on the powerful Energy and Commerce Committee in 1997, and has served on the Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee for several terms. Green also serves on the Health, Telecommunications, and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittees, the Foreign Affairs Committee and its Western Hemisphere Subcommittee, the Standards of Official Conduct (Ethics) Committee, and the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee. He is also an at-large whip for the Democratic Party. ###
06.19.2008	Washington, D.C. – The dangerously narrow Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge that was declared a hazard to navigation by the Coast Guard in 2001 is another step closer to replacement today after several members of Congress announced additional federal funding. Houston-area Reps. Gene Green (D-Houston), Ted Poe (R-Humble), John Culberson (R-Houston) and Ron Paul (R-Lake Jackson), who all requested funding for the bridge replacement project at the beginning of the appropriations process earlier this year, announced that the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security approved $5 million for the project, which supplements previous years’ appropriations totaling $25.8 million. The estimated total cost of the project is $68 million. “Replacing this bridge is crucial for several industries in our area, plus it would help ensure the safety of barge operators, recreational vehicles on the water, and the bridge itself,” Green said. Paul said he was proud to support the project for the benefit of Galveston. “I have always said it is important to take care of our infrastructure here at home,” he said. Barges up to 104 feet wide and 1000 feet long carry 29 million tons of cargo through a 105-foot gap in the Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge every year. Strong winds and currents and limited visibility often contribute to accidents that cause more than $5 million in damage annually. “The Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge is the most hazardous spot on the entire Gulf Intracoastal Waterway,” Poe said. “More accidents occur there than at any other bridge on the Gulf Coast. I appreciate the work by my colleagues in the Texas Congressional delegation to address a risk to our citizens, the environment and the efficient flow of commerce. This funding moves us closer to a construction start on this important project.” Federal funding for the widening project, which must still be approved by the House Appropriations Committee and the full House of Representatives, will be supplemented by a 10 percent contribution from Galveston County. The estimated cost includes design, engineering, and construction of a new 300-foot navigation span lift bridge. “The Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge is an essential part of the infrastructure and economy of Southeast Texas, and replacing this aging bridge will improve the flow of goods and traffic and ensure a vibrant economy,” Culberson said. “As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I was pleased to work with my colleagues from Southeast Texas to help secure funding for this vital project.” ###
06.19.2008	Washington, D.C. – The National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare awarded U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) their 2008 Legislator of the Year award in a ceremony in Washington, D.C. yesterday. The award was partly based on the Community Mental Health Services Improvement Act (H.R. 5176) Green introduced in January. The bill would provide grants to allow mental healthcare providers to recruit primary care professionals so patients can receive both mental and physical treatment at the same facility. “It’s an honor to receive this award. The mental healthcare system in our communities has been consistently underfunded for too many years,” Green said. According to the National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare, less than a third of community mental health providers in the United States can afford the staff and other resources necessary to provide treatment for hypertension, diabetes, obesity, and other medical conditions. On average, people with a mental illness die 25 years earlier than the general population, largely because of chronic untreated medical conditions. Green said community mental health organizations serve more than six million patients across the country, including children in foster care, seniors, homeless and Medicaid beneficiaries. But he says the availability of care is insufficient because of low reimbursement rates, shrinking budgets and workforce shortages. Green’s bill would also provide funding for training and loan assistance programs to increase the number of behavioral healthcare workers. “We have struggled to meet the basic healthcare needs of those who suffer from mental illness, but I’m hopeful we can begin to make a difference by moving this bill through the legislative process,” he said. ###
06.19.2008	Houston, Texas – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) announced preliminary approval for federal funding of Houston’s Interoperability Initiative and the East Aldine Water and Sanitary Sewer Initiative today. Green requested the funding as part of the congressional appropriations process earlier this year. “I’m pleased that these crucial projects will be going forward,” Green said. “Public safety and basic services have to be among our top priorities.” The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science approved $600,000 for Houston’s Interoperability Initiative, which will pay for equipment to allow first responders to communicate effectively in an emergency. The initiative has obtained funds through several avenues, including Public Safety Interoperable Communications grants for $14.5 million that Green helped obtain last September, and will continue to seek additional funding. The Subcommittee on Interior and Environment approved $500,000 for the East Aldine Management District’s Water and Sanitary Sewer Initiative, which will be used to provide water and sewer service to large areas of the district that currently rely on wells and private septic tanks. The funds for both projects must still be approved by the House Appropriations Committee and the House of Representatives. Communication among Houston’s police, fire and other emergency services is hampered by aging equipment, disparate radio systems and limited funding. The Harris County regional communications system hosts most local jurisdictions, but it lacks capacity to support the Houston Police Department. As a result, the responders most likely to be called upon to support emergency service counterparts across the region are the least likely to be able to communicate upon arrival at an emergency. In the East Aldine Management District, many families rely on private septic tanks and wells despite close proximity to the fourth-largest city in the country. The septic tanks often fail and leak raw sewage that contaminates wells used for drinking water. ###
06.19.2008	Washington, D.C. – The National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare awarded U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) their 2008 Legislator of the Year award in a ceremony in Washington, D.C. yesterday. The award was partly based on the Community Mental Health Services Improvement Act (H.R. 5176) Green introduced in January. The bill would provide grants to allow mental healthcare providers to recruit primary care professionals so patients can receive both mental and physical treatment at the same facility. “It’s an honor to receive this award. The mental healthcare system in our communities has been consistently underfunded for too many years,” Green said. According to the National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare, less than a third of community mental health providers in the United States can afford the staff and other resources necessary to provide treatment for hypertension, diabetes, obesity, and other medical conditions. On average, people with a mental illness die 25 years earlier than the general population, largely because of chronic untreated medical conditions. Green said community mental health organizations serve more than six million patients across the country, including children in foster care, seniors, homeless and Medicaid beneficiaries. But he says the availability of care is insufficient because of low reimbursement rates, shrinking budgets and workforce shortages. Green’s bill would also provide funding for training and loan assistance programs to increase the number of behavioral healthcare workers. “We have struggled to meet the basic healthcare needs of those who suffer from mental illness, but I’m hopeful we can begin to make a difference by moving this bill through the legislative process,” he said.###
06.19.2008	Houston, Texas – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) announced preliminary approval for federal funding of Houston’s Interoperability Initiative and the East Aldine Water and Sanitary Sewer Initiative today. Green requested the funding as part of the congressional appropriations process earlier this year. “I’m pleased that these crucial projects will be going forward,” Green said. “Public safety and basic services have to be among our top priorities.” The House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science approved $600,000 for Houston’s Interoperability Initiative, which will pay for equipment to allow first responders to communicate effectively in an emergency. The initiative has obtained funds through several avenues, including Public Safety Interoperable Communications grants for $14.5 million that Green helped obtain last September, and will continue to seek additional funding. The Subcommittee on Interior and Environment approved $500,000 for the East Aldine Management District’s Water and Sanitary Sewer Initiative, which will be used to provide water and sewer service to large areas of the district that currently rely on wells and private septic tanks. The funds for both projects must still be approved by the House Appropriations Committee and the House of Representatives. Communication among Houston’s police, fire and other emergency services is hampered by aging equipment, disparate radio systems and limited funding. The Harris County regional communications system hosts most local jurisdictions, but it lacks capacity to support the Houston Police Department. As a result, the responders most likely to be called upon to support emergency service counterparts across the region are the least likely to be able to communicate upon arrival at an emergency. In the East Aldine Management District, many families rely on private septic tanks and wells despite close proximity to the fourth-largest city in the country. The septic tanks often fail and leak raw sewage that contaminates wells used for drinking water. ###
06.19.2008	Washington, D.C. – The dangerously narrow Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge that was declared a hazard to navigation by the Coast Guard in 2001 is another step closer to replacement today after several members of Congress announced additional federal funding. Houston-area Reps. Gene Green (D-Houston), Ted Poe (R-Humble), John Culberson (R-Houston) and Ron Paul (R-Lake Jackson), who all requested funding for the bridge replacement project at the beginning of the appropriations process earlier this year, announced that the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security approved $5 million for the project, which supplements previous years’ appropriations totaling $25.8 million. The estimated total cost of the project is $68 million. “Replacing this bridge is crucial for several industries in our area, plus it would help ensure the safety of barge operators, recreational vehicles on the water, and the bridge itself,” Green said. Paul said he was proud to support the project for the benefit of Galveston. “I have always said it is important to take care of our infrastructure here at home,” he said. Barges up to 104 feet wide and 1000 feet long carry 29 million tons of cargo through a 105-foot gap in the Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge every year. Strong winds and currents and limited visibility often contribute to accidents that cause more than $5 million in damage annually. “The Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge is the most hazardous spot on the entire Gulf Intracoastal Waterway,” Poe said. “More accidents occur there than at any other bridge on the Gulf Coast. I appreciate the work by my colleagues in the Texas Congressional delegation to address a risk to our citizens, the environment and the efficient flow of commerce. This funding moves us closer to a construction start on this important project.” Federal funding for the widening project, which must still be approved by the House Appropriations Committee and the full House of Representatives, will be supplemented by a 10 percent contribution from Galveston County. The estimated cost includes design, engineering, and construction of a new 300-foot navigation span lift bridge. “The Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge is an essential part of the infrastructure and economy of Southeast Texas, and replacing this aging bridge will improve the flow of goods and traffic and ensure a vibrant economy,” Culberson said. “As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I was pleased to work with my colleagues from Southeast Texas to help secure funding for this vital project.” ###
06.15.2008	Houston, Texas – Thanks to the help of community and corporate volunteers, more than 75 legal residents began the process of becoming an American citizen at Congressman Gene Green’s 14th annual Citizenship Day on June 14. “It was a moving experience to see these men and women take a huge step toward accomplishing their goal. Some of them have been waiting many years to have the opportunity to even apply,” Green said. This year’s event was held at the Houston Community College’s brand new Northline campus at 8001 Fulton Street in Houston, Texas where people began lining up well before the official 8 a.m. start time. A $250 increase in citizenship application fees in addition to a number of other citizenship events scheduled in the area for June and stricter English-language requirements resulted in less-crowded facilities compared to previous years and more opportunity for personal attention. Volunteers helped participants with the naturalization application, including taking photos and providing legal aid. Congressman Green thanks to USCIS, United States Postal Service, Hewlett-Packard, Chase, NALEO, and LULAC for their support. If you are interested in participating in next year’s Citizenship Day, you can contact Congressman Green’s Houston office at (281) 999-5879. ###
06.15.2008	Houston, Texas – Thanks to the help of community and corporate volunteers, more than 75 legal residents began the process of becoming an American citizen at Congressman Gene Green’s 14th annual Citizenship Day on June 14. “It was a moving experience to see these men and women take a huge step toward accomplishing their goal. Some of them have been waiting many years to have the opportunity to even apply,” Green said. This year’s event was held at the Houston Community College’s brand new Northline campus at 8001 Fulton Street in Houston, Texas where people began lining up well before the official 8 a.m. start time. A $250 increase in citizenship application fees in addition to a number of other citizenship events scheduled in the area for June and stricter English-language requirements resulted in less-crowded facilities compared to previous years and more opportunity for personal attention. Volunteers helped participants with the naturalization application, including taking photos and providing legal aid. Congressman Green thanks to USCIS, United States Postal Service, Hewlett-Packard, Chase, NALEO, and LULAC for their support. If you are interested in participating in next year’s Citizenship Day, you can contact Congressman Green’s Houston office at (281) 999-5879. ###
06.02.2008	Houston, TX – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) will help legal residents fill out and send applications for citizenship Saturday, June 14 at 8:00 a.m. at Houston Community College’s Northline Campus at 8001 Fulton Street in Houston. “We’re helping families navigate the bureaucracy so they can fulfill their dreams of being United States citizens,” Green said. “It’s exciting to the people who are taking this huge step toward becoming Americans, and it’s an honor to be involved,” he added. This will be the 14th annual Citizenship Day sponsored by Green, who said that in previous years demand has far exceeded the capacity of volunteers to help everyone. This year, Green hopes to help over 300 people complete and send their paperwork. The Citizenship Day event will offer legal residents of the United States the opportunity to complete all the steps necessary to apply for citizenship in one stop. The applications will be completed and then reviewed by attorneys for accuracy. Required photos will be supplied; and finally, the United States Postal Service will accept the completed applications and send them via certified mail to the USCIS. Though the Citizenship Day services are free, applicants must still pay the usual application, fingerprint and postage fees. ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS 1. You must be at least 18 years of age. 2. You must have been a legal resident of the U.S. for at least 5 years or, if you are married to a U.S. citizen, you must have been a legal resident for at least 3 years. ITEMS APPLICANTS MUST BRING TO CITIZENSHIP DAY 1. Permanent resident card 2. A list of the dates when the applicant have left the country and returned since becoming a permanent resident. 3. Information on when and where the applicant has lived and worked for the past five years. 4. Information regarding the applicant’s children and spouse, including birth certificates, marriage licenses and divorce decrees. 5. A money order or cashier’s check for $675 for the application and fingerprint fees, payable to USCIS. The citizenship exam will not be offered at this event nor will swearing-in ceremonies be conducted. The application you complete at the workshop is the first step of the citizenship process. The USCIS will take approximately six months to process it in most cases. Potential applicants with questions can call Green’s Citizenship Day hotline at (713) 756-9429. Those who would like to volunteer to help at the event can call Shirley Gonzalez at (281) 999-5879.
06.02.2008	Houston, TX – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) will help legal residents fill out and send applications for citizenship Saturday, June 14 at 8:00 a.m. at Houston Community College’s Northline Campus at 8001 Fulton Street in Houston. “We’re helping families navigate the bureaucracy so they can fulfill their dreams of being United States citizens,” Green said. “It’s exciting to the people who are taking this huge step toward becoming Americans, and it’s an honor to be involved,” he added. This will be the 14th annual Citizenship Day sponsored by Green, who said that in previous years demand has far exceeded the capacity of volunteers to help everyone. This year, Green hopes to help over 300 people complete and send their paperwork. The Citizenship Day event will offer legal residents of the United States the opportunity to complete all the steps necessary to apply for citizenship in one stop. The applications will be completed and then reviewed by attorneys for accuracy. Required photos will be supplied; and finally, the United States Postal Service will accept the completed applications and send them via certified mail to the USCIS. Though the Citizenship Day services are free, applicants must still pay the usual application, fingerprint and postage fees. ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS1. You must be at least 18 years of age.2. You must have been a legal resident of the U.S. for at least 5 years or, if you are married to a U.S. citizen, you must have been a legal resident for at least 3 years. ITEMS APPLICANTS MUST BRING TO CITIZENSHIP DAY1. Permanent resident card2. A list of the dates when the applicant have left the country and returned since becoming a permanent resident.3. Information on when and where the applicant has lived and worked for the past five years.4. Information regarding the applicant’s children and spouse, including birth certificates, marriage licenses and divorce decrees.5. A money order or cashier’s check for $675 for the application and fingerprint fees, payable to USCIS. The citizenship exam will not be offered at this event nor will swearing-in ceremonies be conducted. The application you complete at the workshop is the first step of the citizenship process. The USCIS will take approximately six months to process it in most cases. Potential applicants with questions can call Green’s Citizenship Day hotline at (713) 756-9429. Those who would like to volunteer to help at the event can call Shirley Gonzalez at (281) 999-5879.
05.13.2008	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) made a special service medal presentation to World War II veteran Marcos Barelas at Green’s annual Veterans Forum at the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 581 in Houston on Saturday. “It’s an honor for me to assist this hero to obtain the medals he earned more than half a century ago,” Green said. “We are forever grateful for the risks he took for the benefit of our nation.” Barelas was drafted into the U.S. Army in 1942, where he served with the HQ Company 1st Batallion, White Combat Team and the Composite 5307th (Provisional). He volunteered for hazardous jungle warfare mission in Burma with Merrill's Marauders. On one occasion, Barelas walked 14 miles barefoot because his boots had given out, and over the course of his service he contracted malaria, deadly mite typhus, dysentery and other potentially fatal diseases. He continued fighting bravely, and was honorably discharged in 1945. Every member of the Marauders received the Bronze Star, and the unit received the Presidential Unit Citation for accomplishing its missions under extremely difficult conditions. In addition to the Bronze Star and Presidential Unit Citation, Green presented Barelas with the Good Conduct Medal, American Campaign Medal, Asiatic-Pacific Campaign medal and Bronze Star Attachment (double), World War II Victory Medal, Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award, and Honorable Service Lapel Button WWII. At the forum Green also heard veterans’ concerns and various veterans’ service organizations provided information on health care and disability and pension benefits. Green also spoke about Congress’s recent action on veterans’ issues. He mentioned that the FY 2008 budget included the largest veterans’ funding increase in the history of the Veterans Administration, which he said will pay for 1,800 new claims processors. Currently there is a 400,000 claim backlog causing a 177-day average wait for veterans to access earned benefits. Green also said recent legislation gives American troops a 3.5 percent pay raise, improves Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and Traumatic Brain Injury care at military facilities, prevents TRICARE health care increases for troops, and makes progress toward ending the Military Families Tax on survivor benefits and the Disabled Veterans Tax on retirement benefits for combat-related military disabled retirees.
05.13.2008	Houston, TX–Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) made aspecial service medal presentation to World War II veteran Marcos Barelas at Green’s annual Veterans Forum at the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 581 in Houstonon Saturday. “It’s an honor for me to assist this hero to obtain the medals he earned more than half a century ago,” Green said. “We are forever grateful for the risks he took for the benefit of our nation.” WWII veteran Marcos Barelas with family and Congressman Green Barelas was drafted into the U.S. Army in 1942, where he served with the HQ Company 1st Batallion, White Combat Team and the Composite 5307th (Provisional). He volunteered for hazardous jungle warfare mission in Burma with Merrill's Marauders. On one occasion, Barelas walked 14 miles barefoot because his boots had given out, and over the course of his service he contracted malaria, deadly mite typhus, dysentery and other potentially fatal diseases. He continued fighting bravely, and was honorably discharged in 1945. Every member of the Marauders received the Bronze Star, and the unit received the Presidential Unit Citation for accomplishing its missions under extremely difficult conditions. In addition to the Bronze Star and Presidential Unit Citation, Green presented Barelas with the Good Conduct Medal, American Campaign Medal, Asiatic-Pacific Campaign medal and Bronze Star Attachment(double), World War II Victory Medal, Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award, and Honorable Service Lapel Button WWII. At the forum Green also heard veterans’ concerns and various veterans’ service organizations provided information on health care and disability and pension benefits. Green also spoke about Congress’s recent action on veterans’ issues. He mentioned that the FY 2008 budget included the largest veterans’ funding increase in the history of the Veterans Administration, which he said will pay for 1,800 new claims processors. Currently there is a 400,000 claim backlog causing a 177-day average wait for veterans to access earned benefits. Green also said recent legislation gives American troops a 3.5 percent pay raise, improves Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and Traumatic Brain Injury care at military facilities, prevents TRICARE health care increases for troops, and makes progress toward ending the Military Families Tax on survivor benefits and the Disabled Veterans Tax on retirement benefits for combat-related military disabled retirees.###
05.12.2008	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) announced that Jessica Ortega of Aldine High School is the winner of this year’s annual 29th Congressional District Art Competition for high school students. Art competition winner Jessica Ortega of Aldine High with her mother and Congressman Green “We have some very talented young people in our district, so the decision was difficult,” Green said. “The Art Institute of Houston evaluated each entry on artistic merit, and Jessica’s came out on top.” Ortega will receive a free trip to an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. with her parents, and the winning piece will represent Texas’s 29th Congressional District on display in the United States Capitol Building. Second place winner Karina Villareal of MacArthur High School received an IPod Nano and third place winner Cesar Mejia of Austin High School received an IPod Shuffle. This year’s participating students came from Austin, Aldine, MacArthur, and Sam Houston High Schools and Alta Academy. Sponsors include DeVry University, Southwest Airlines and AT&T, the Art Institute of Houston, Neighborhood Centers Inc. and Ed Gonzalez. Green said the art competition was just part of his office’s extensive efforts to reach out to young people in the 29th Congressional District. The office also sponsors career days , a Paying for College Workshop and free immunizations for children. The annual Congressional Art Competition is conducted independently in participating congressional districts all across the country. Green’s office has participated for more than a decade.
05.12.2008	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) announced that Jessica Ortega of Aldine High School is the winner of this year’s annual 29th Congressional District Art Competition for high school students. “We have some very talented young people in our district, so the decision was difficult,” Green said. “The Art Institute of Houston evaluated each entry on artistic merit, and Jessica’s came out on top.” Ortega will receive a free trip to an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. with her parents, and the winning piece will represent Texas’s 29th Congressional District on display in the United States Capitol Building. Second place winner Karina Villareal of MacArthur High School received an IPod Nano and third place winner Cesar Mejia of Austin High School received an IPod Shuffle. This year’s participating students came from Austin, Aldine, MacArthur, and Sam Houston High Schools and Alta Academy. Sponsors include DeVry University, Southwest Airlines and AT&T, the Art Institute of Houston, Neighborhood Centers Inc. and Ed Gonzalez. Green said the art competition was just part of his office’s extensive efforts to reach out to young people in the 29th Congressional District. The office also sponsors career days , a Paying for College Workshop and free immunizations for children. The annual Congressional Art Competition is conducted independently in participating congressional districts all across the country. Green’s office has participated for more than a decade. ###
05.07.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today the Committee on Energy and Commerce unanimously approved three important public health bills. Each of the bills, H.R. 1343, H.R. 5669 and H.R. 1553, were approved by voice vote and will now be forwarded for consideration by the full House of Representatives for consideration. “These important public health bills will increase Federal investments in community health centers, strengthen poison control centers, and improve pediatric cancer research,” said Rep. John D. Dingell (D-MI), Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “I commend my colleagues, especially Reps. Pallone, Deal, Green, Towns and Solis, for their work on these bills. I look forward to supporting these bills on the House floor.” "Today, the Energy and Commerce Committee approved three vitally important bills addressing childhood cancer, poisonous materials and Community Health Centers," said Rep. Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health. "As more Americans join the ranks of the uninsured, the demands on our state's health centers are growing exponentially. I am particularly proud of the committee's work in reauthorizing the Community Health Centers program, which will provide more resources to strengthen our health centers and help them fulfill the role they play in guaranteeing millions of Americans access to quality health services." H.R. 1343, the “Health Centers Renewal Act of 2007,” sponsored by Rep. Gene Green(D-TX), would provide additional appropriations for health centers to meet the health care needs of medically underserved populations. An Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute, offered by Green was approved by voice vote and would give the Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary the authority to recognize the unique needs of high poverty areas for planning grants for new health centers. H.R. 5669, the “Poison Center Support, Enhancement, and Awareness Act of 2008,” sponsored by Rep. Edolphus Towns (D-NY), would reauthorize the poison center national toll-free number, national media campaign, and grant program to provide assistance for poison prevention, and sustain the funding of poison centers. H.R. 1553, the “Caroline Pryce Walker Conquer Childhood Cancer Act of 2008,” would advance medical research and treatments into pediatric cancers, ensure patients and families have access to the current treatments and information regarding pediatric cancers, establish a population-based national childhood cancer database, and promote public awareness of pediatric cancers. An Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute, offered by Rep. Hilda Solis (D-CA), was approved by voice vote and would ensure that the public awareness provisions will be culturally and linguistically appropriate for patients and families. The amendment also changes the short title of H.R. 1553 in memory of Rep. Deborah Pryce’s nine-year-old daughter, Caroline, who lost her battle against a rare for of cancer called neuroblastoma on September 4, 1999. “Health centers represent our nation’s largest primary health care system and serve as a medical home to more than fifteen million Americans, the overwhelming majority of whom are low-income or uninsured individuals. This bill will double the number Americans that can be served in these health centers,” Green said. “By providing the medically underserved with primary and preventive health care, federally-qualified health centers have also reduced the need for in-patient and specialty care and help to depopulate our overcrowded emergency rooms.” "The Poison Center Support, Enhancement, and Awareness Act of 2008 ensures a critical part of our national health network continues to perform a vital service in preventing deaths from the ingestion of poison,” said Towns. “The nation is well served by the 61 national poison control centers (PCCs). The lives of many Americans, especially children and seniors, have been saved by PCCs. Therefore, I am very pleased that H.R. 5669 made it out of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and hope for fast passage in the Senate and presentment for the President's signature.” The Committee also approved a resolution, offered by Rep. Whitfield (R-KY), to go to Conference on H.R. 4040, the “Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act of 2007.” This legislation was approved by the House on December 19, 2008, and by the Senate on March 8, 2008. For more information, please visit https://energycommerce.house.gov/ ###
05.07.2008	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) will host his annual Veterans Forum Saturday to hear veterans’ concerns and to provide information on community resources. At the forum, veterans will have the opportunity to visit with various veterans service organizations. Information will be available on health care, disability and pensions benefits, how to start a small business, buy a home and purchase land. The forum will also include a special presentation of service medals to World War II veteran Marcos Barelas, who volunteered for hazardous jungle warfare missions in Burma. WHERE: Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 581 27 Farrell Street, Houston 77022 WHEN: Saturday, May 10, 2008 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. ###
05.07.2008	Houston, TX– Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) will host his annual Veterans Forum Saturday to hear veterans’ concerns and to provide information on community resources. At the forum, veterans will have the opportunity to visit with various veterans service organizations. Information will be available on health care, disability and pensions benefits, how to start a small business, buy a home and purchase land. The forum will also include a special presentation of service medals to World War II veteran Marcos Barelas, who volunteered for hazardous jungle warfare missions in Burma. WHERE: Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 581 27 Farrell Street, Houston 77022 WHEN: Saturday, May 10, 2008 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. ###
05.07.2008	Washington, D.C.– Today the Committee on Energy and Commerce unanimously approved three important public health bills. Each of the bills, H.R. 1343, H.R. 5669 and H.R. 1553,were approved by voice vote and will now be forwarded for consideration by the full House of Representatives for consideration. “These important public health bills will increase Federal investments in community health centers, strengthen poison control centers, and improve pediatric cancer research,” said Rep. John D. Dingell (D-MI), Chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. “I commend my colleagues, especially Reps. Pallone, Deal, Green, Towns and Solis, for their work on these bills. I look forward to supporting these bills on the House floor.” "Today, the Energy and Commerce Committee approved three vitally important bills addressing childhood cancer, poisonous materials and Community Health Centers," said Rep. Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health. "As more Americans join the ranks of the uninsured, the demands on our state's health centers are growing exponentially. I am particularly proud of the committee's work in reauthorizing the Community Health Centers program, which will provide more resources to strengthen our health centers and help them fulfill the role they play in guaranteeing millions of Americans access to quality health services." H.R. 1343, the “Health Centers Renewal Act of 2007,”sponsored by Rep. Gene Green(D-TX), would provide additional appropriations for health centers to meet the health care needs of medically underserved populations. An Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute, offered by Green was approved by voice vote and would give the Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary the authority to recognize the unique needs of high poverty areas for planning grants for new health centers. H.R. 5669, the “Poison Center Support, Enhancement, and Awareness Act of 2008,” sponsored by Rep. Edolphus Towns (D-NY),would reauthorize the poison center national toll-free number, national media campaign, and grant program to provide assistance for poison prevention, and sustain the funding of poison centers. H.R. 1553, the “Caroline Pryce Walker Conquer Childhood Cancer Act of 2008,” would advance medical research and treatments into pediatric cancers, ensure patients and families have access to the current treatments and information regarding pediatric cancers, establish a population-based national childhood cancer database, and promote public awareness of pediatric cancers. An Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute, offered by Rep. Hilda Solis (D-CA), was approved by voice vote and would ensure that the publicawareness provisions will be culturally and linguistically appropriate for patients and families. The amendment also changes the short title of H.R. 1553 in memory of Rep. Deborah Pryce’s nine-year-old daughter, Caroline, who lost her battle against a rare for of cancer called neuroblastoma on September 4, 1999. “Health centers represent our nation’s largest primary health care system and serve as a medical home to more than fifteen million Americans, the overwhelming majority of whom are low-income or uninsured individuals. This bill will double the number Americans that can be served in these health centers,” Green said. “By providing the medically underserved with primary and preventive health care, federally-qualified health centers have also reduced the need for in-patient and specialty care and help to depopulate our overcrowded emergency rooms.” "The Poison Center Support, Enhancement, and Awareness Act of 2008 ensures a critical part of our national health network continues to perform a vital service in preventing deaths from the ingestion of poison,” said Towns. “The nation is well served by the 61 national poison control centers (PCCs). The lives of many Americans, especially children and seniors, have been saved by PCCs. Therefore, I am very pleased that H.R. 5669 made it out of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and hope for fast passage in the Senate and presentment for the President's signature.” The Committee also approved a resolution, offered by Rep. Whitfield (R-KY), to go to Conference on H.R. 4040, the “Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act of 2007.” This legislation was approved by the House on December 19, 2008, and by the Senate on March 8, 2008. For more information, please visit https://energycommerce.house.gov/ ###
05.01.2008	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) will announce the winner of this year's annual 29th Congressional District Art Competition for high school students at an exhbition. “This year’s entries are fantastic. These young men and women have created such beautiful work, and the judging process has been difficult.” Green said. The first place winner will receive a free trip to an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. with his or her parents, and the winning piece will represent Texas’s 29th Congressional District on display in the Capitol Building. The second place winner will receive an IPod Nano and the third place winner will receive an IPod Shuffle. Light refreshments will be provided. This year’s participating students come from Austin, Aldine, MacArthur, and Sam Houston High Schools and Alta Academy. Sponsors include DeVry University, Southwest Airlines and AT&T. WHERE: Ripley House 4410 Navigation Blvd., Houston 77011 WHEN: Friday, May 2, 2008 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. ###
05.01.2008	Houston, TX– Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) will announce the winner of this year's annual 29th Congressional District Art Competition for high school students at an exhbition. “This year’s entries are fantastic. These young men and women have created such beautiful work, and the judging process has been difficult.” Green said. The first place winner will receive a free trip to an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. with his or her parents, and the winning piece will represent Texas’s 29th Congressional District on display in the Capitol Building. The second place winner will receive an IPod Nano and the third place winner will receive an IPod Shuffle. Light refreshments will be provided. This year’s participating students come from Austin, Aldine, MacArthur, and Sam Houston High Schools and Alta Academy. Sponsors include DeVry University, Southwest Airlines and AT&T. WHERE: Ripley House 4410 Navigation Blvd., Houston 77011 WHEN: Friday, May 2, 2008 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. ###
04.24.2008	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) congratulated Dr. Michael DeBakey for his remarkable career in medicine on Wednesday at a Congressional Gold Medal ceremony to honor DeBakey in the U.S. Capitol rotunda. “His talent for healing and penchant for devising brilliant new techniques have served multitudes around the world, but he means something extra special to Harris County,” Green said. “I’m proud to know him and to have worked with him.” The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian award the U.S. Congress can bestow. DeBakey, who will turn 100 in September, was born of Lebanese immigrants. He proposed the M.A.S.H. unit concept that brought advanced surgical techniques up to the borders of the battlefield, which saved countless American soldiers’ lives. He pioneered heart surgery techniques and helped develop the first artificial heart. He has received many awards over his career, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom and National Medal of Science. His name was included on former President Richard Nixon’s infamous enemies list. In the attached photos: Group shot. Back: Rep. Mike McCaul (R-Austin), Rep. Al Green (D-Houston), Randy Neugebauer (R-Lubbock), Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), Rep. Michael Burgess (R-Flower Mound), Rep. Chet Edwards (D-Waco), Rep. Nick Lampson (D-Stafford), President George Bush, Rep. John Culberson (R-Houston), Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-Houston), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-Dallas). Front: Dr. Michael DeBakey, Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) Close shot. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston), Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), Dr. Michael DeBakey, and Rep. Michael Burgess (R-Flower Mound) ###
04.24.2008	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep Gene Green (D-Texas) has cosponsored the Credit Cardholders Bill of Rights (HR. 5244), legislation that would reform major credit card industry abuses and improve consumer protections for cardholders. “As our country stares into the face of a possible recession, more and more Texans are turning to their credit cards to help make ends meet. Congress can and should take swift action to reform major credit card industry abuses and improve consumer protections for cardholders,” Green said. The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights would: · Require card companies to give cardholders advance notice of any interest rate hike · Give cardholders the right to say “no” to borrowing money at a higher interest rate than they originally agreed to · Stop tricks and traps that make cardholders incur rate hikes and pricey fees · Empower cardholders to set limits on their credit · Shield cardholders from misleading terms · Protect vulnerable consumers from fee-heavy subprime cards · Require Congress to provide better oversight of the credit card industry The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights has over 100 co-sponsors in the House of Representatives and has been endorsed by newspapers throughout the country, including USA Today and The New York Times. The bill also has the support of leading consumer groups, such as Consumers Union, U.S. PIRG, and the Consumer Federation, as well as The National Small Business Association and The Service Employees International Union (SEIU). For more information on The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, please visit: https://maloney.house.gov/index.php?option=com_issues&task=view_issue&issue=298&Itemid=35. ###
04.24.2008	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) will host the 6th Annual Job Fair on May 12 from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. at Houston Community College's Northeast Codwell Campus, 555 Community College Drive in Houston. At 10:30 a.m. Congressman Green and representatives of organizations co-hosting the event will give brief remarks. The job fair will provide an opportunity for employing agencies to interview and recruit candidates in person and to promote their current job openings. Also, job seekers will be offered assistance with interviewing skills and receive helpful tips to create or revise their resume. In order to get the most from this opportunity, job seekers should dress professionally and bring copies of their resume if they already have one. Approximately 30 employers will be scouting for prospective employees, including: the Port of Houston, Comcast, Houston Independent School District, Channelview Independent School District, Gallery Furniture, the Worksource, the City of Houston, Exxon Mobil, Houston Urban League, the Houston Police Department, the Harris County Sheriff’s Department, Harris County Education Department, Harris County Human Resources and Risk Management, Harris County Public Health & Environmental Services, Harris County Central Technology, U.S. Steel Tubular Products, Inc., MEMCO, Ironworkers Local #84, the Pipefitters Union, the Carpenters Union, Sheetmetal Workers, and the Plumbers Union. Available positions include customer service representatives, supervisors, account management, inbound sales, clerical and technical support, teachers, health and safety inspectors, forklift operators, mechanics, electricians, plumbers, carpenters, apprenticeships, laborers, police officer trainees, sheriff deputies and student employment opportunities. ###
04.24.2008	Houston, TX– Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) will host the 6th Annual Job Fair on May 12 from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. at Houston Community College's Northeast Codwell Campus, 555 Community College Drive in Houston. At 10:30 a.m. Congressman Green and representatives of organizations co-hosting the event will give brief remarks. The job fair will provide an opportunity for employing agencies to interview and recruit candidates in person and to promote their current job openings. Also, job seekers will be offered assistance with interviewing skills and receive helpful tips to create or revise their resume. In order to get the most from this opportunity, job seekers should dress professionally and bring copies of their resume if they already have one. Approximately 30 employers will be scouting for prospective employees, including: the Port of Houston, Comcast, Houston Independent School District, Channelview Independent School District, Gallery Furniture, the Worksource, the City of Houston, Exxon Mobil, Houston Urban League, the Houston Police Department, the Harris County Sheriff’s Department, Harris County Education Department, Harris County Human Resources and Risk Management, Harris County Public Health & Environmental Services, Harris County Central Technology, U.S. Steel Tubular Products, Inc., MEMCO, Ironworkers Local #84, the Pipefitters Union, the Carpenters Union, Sheetmetal Workers, and the Plumbers Union. Available positions include customer service representatives, supervisors, account management, inbound sales, clerical and technical support, teachers, health and safety inspectors, forklift operators, mechanics, electricians, plumbers, carpenters, apprenticeships, laborers, police officer trainees, sheriff deputies and student employment opportunities. ###
04.24.2008	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep Gene Green (D-Texas) has cosponsored the Credit Cardholders Bill of Rights (HR. 5244), legislation that would reform major credit card industry abuses and improve consumer protections for cardholders. “As our country stares into the face of a possible recession, more and more Texans are turning to their credit cards to help make ends meet. Congress can and should take swift action to reform major credit card industry abuses and improve consumer protections for cardholders,” Green said. The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights would:· Require card companies to give cardholders advance notice of any interest rate hike · Give cardholders the right to say “no” to borrowing money at a higher interest rate than they originally agreed to· Stop tricks and traps that make cardholders incur rate hikes and pricey fees· Empower cardholders to set limits on their credit· Shield cardholders from misleading terms· Protect vulnerable consumers from fee-heavy subprime cards· Require Congress to provide better oversight of the credit card industry The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights has over 100 co-sponsors in the House of Representatives and has been endorsed by newspapers throughout the country, including USA Today and The New York Times. The bill also has the support of leading consumer groups, such as Consumers Union, U.S. PIRG, and the Consumer Federation, as well as The National Small Business Association and The Service Employees International Union (SEIU). For more information on The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, please visit: https://maloney.house.gov/index.php?option=com_issues&task=view_issue&issue=298&Itemid=35.###
04.24.2008	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) congratulated Dr. Michael DeBakey for his remarkable career in medicine on Wednesday at a Congressional Gold Medal ceremony to honor DeBakey in the U.S. Capitol rotunda. “His talent for healing and penchant for devising brilliant new techniques have served multitudes around the world, but he means something extra special to Harris County,” Green said. “I’m proud to know him and to have worked with him.” The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian award the U.S. Congress can bestow. DeBakey, who will turn 100 in September, was born of Lebanese immigrants. He proposed the M.A.S.H. unit concept that brought advanced surgical techniques up to the borders of the battlefield, which saved countless American soldiers’ lives. He pioneered heart surgery techniques and helped develop the first artificial heart. He has received many awards over his career, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom and National Medal of Science. His name was included on former President Richard Nixon’s infamous enemies list. ###
04.16.2008	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) was recognized as a Champion of Women’s Health on Tuesday by the Susan G. Komen for the Cure Advocacy Alliance, the National Osteoporosis Foundation, Y-ME National Breast Cancer Organization and the Medical Imaging & Technology Alliance. Green is an advocate in Congress for improved imaging technology that allows doctors to diagnose cancer and begin treatment at an earlier stage. He has defended imaging research from proposed budget cuts, and this year he requested federal funding for new mammography units at Lyndon B. Johnson Hospital in Houston and the Aldine Health Clinic. “Medical technology has progressed dramatically since I came to Congress in 1993, and now is not the time to ease up on our support,” Green said. “Many more women can be diagnosed and healed if we continue our commitment to provide incentives for research and development of new diagnostic tools.” The Champion of Women’s Health Award is given to honor commitment to women’s health and support of early screening, prevention and research to cure diseases that disproportionately affect women. An estimated 2.4 million women living in the U.S. have been diagnosed with and treated for breast cancer, and the number of new cases of female invasive breast cancer is expected to increase slightly in 2008. Women also make up 8 of the 10 million Americans estimated to have osteoporosis. Screening and early detection are key factors in finding a cure for these diseases. In the photo from left to right are: Roberta Biegel, National Osteoporosis Foundation; Debbie Winn, Y-ME National Breast Cancer Organization, Congressman Green; Larry Lundy, Susan G. Komen for the Cure Advocacy Alliance; Andrew Whitman, Medical Imaging & Technology Alliance.
04.16.2008	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) was recognized as a Champion of Women’s Health on Tuesday by the Susan G. Komen for the Cure Advocacy Alliance, the National Osteoporosis Foundation, Y-ME National Breast Cancer Organization and the Medical Imaging & Technology Alliance. Green is an advocate in Congress for improved imaging technology that allows doctors to diagnose cancer and begin treatment at an earlier stage. He has defended imaging research from proposed budget cuts, and this year he requested federal funding for new mammography units at Lyndon B. Johnson Hospital in Houston and the Aldine Health Clinic. “Medical technology has progressed dramatically since I came to Congress in 1993, and now is not the time to ease up on our support,” Green said. “Many more women can be diagnosed and healed if we continue our commitment to provide incentives for research and development of new diagnostic tools.” The Champion of Women’s Health Award is given to honor commitment to women’s health and support of early screening, prevention and research to cure diseases that disproportionately affect women. An estimated 2.4 million women living in the U.S. have been diagnosed with and treated for breast cancer, and the number of new cases of female invasive breast cancer is expected to increase slightly in 2008. Women also make up 8 of the 10 million Americans estimated to have osteoporosis. Screening and early detection are key factors in finding a cure for these diseases. ###
04.10.2008	Houston, TX - U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) reiterated his request for a Social Security office in the underserved Baytown community today after learning of an SSA plan to move the Pasadena office closer to Baytown this spring. Green requested a new Social Security office for Baytown in January after hearing from constituents that the Pasadena office was overburdened and not easily accessible to Baytown residents. The SSA responded with a plan to move the Pasadena office “east of the current location and closer to Beltway 8,” but Green replied in today’s letter that moving the office would probably increase rather than decrease the number of people seeking service at the facility. “My concern is that the Pasadena Social Security Office, which also serves Baytown and the surrounding areas, is overwhelmed,” Green said. “Adding an office in Baytown would benefit not only Baytown residents who currently face a long commute to the nearest facility, but also Pasadena residents whose local office would see a significant reduction in wait times.” The SSA’s response to Green’s initial request for a new office suggested that residents use “electronic service options” from home. It also said representatives from the local office could provide “alternative service” to individuals who couldn’t travel to Pasadena, conduct business over the phone or use electronic services. Green remained skeptical, pointing out that many senior citizens haven’t adapted to newer technologies and prefer to conduct business in person. He also questioned the feasibility of “alternative service” such as personal visits while Social Security personnel are having trouble just managing the current workload. “We understand that the SSA has been underfunded for many years; however, basic needs of the community such as receiving timely and efficient service at a local Social Security office should be a priority for the SSA as well,” Greens said in his letter. “Therefore, we respectfully request that you open a new Social Security office in Baytown, Texas.”
04.10.2008	Houston, TX - U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) reiterated his request for a Social Security office in the underserved Baytown community today after learning of an SSA plan to move the Pasadena office closer to Baytown this spring. Green requested a new Social Security office for Baytown in January after hearing from constituents that the Pasadena office was overburdened and not easily accessible to Baytown residents. The SSA responded with a plan to move the Pasadena office “east of the current location and closer to Beltway 8,” but Green replied in today’s letter that moving the office would probably increase rather than decrease the number of people seeking service at the facility. “My concern is that the Pasadena Social Security Office, which also serves Baytown and the surrounding areas, is overwhelmed,” Green said. “Adding an office in Baytown would benefit not only Baytown residents who currently face a long commute to the nearest facility, but also Pasadena residents whose local office would see a significant reduction in wait times.” The SSA’s response to Green’s initial request for a new office suggested that residents use “electronic service options” from home. It also said representatives from the local office could provide “alternative service” to individuals who couldn’t travel to Pasadena, conduct business over the phone or use electronic services. Green remained skeptical, pointing out that many senior citizens haven’t adapted to newer technologies and prefer to conduct business in person. He also questioned the feasibility of “alternative service” such as personal visits while Social Security personnel are having trouble just managing the current workload. “We understand that the SSA has been underfunded for many years; however, basic needs of the community such as receiving timely and efficient service at a local Social Security office should be a priority for the SSA as well,” Greens said in his letter. “Therefore, we respectfully request that you open a new Social Security office in Baytown, Texas.”###
04.02.2008	Houston, Texas - Houston’s Bureau of Tuberculosis Control bestowed their Honor Award on Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) for his efforts to eradicate tuberculosis during a World TB Day event. Dr. Charles Wallace, director of the Infectious Disease, Intervention and Control branch of the Texas Department of State Health Services (DSHS) presented the award to a representative from Green’s office on March 28. During the presentation ceremony Wallace said it was good to have knowledgeable friends working on behalf of tuberculosis (TB) elimination in Washington, and commended Green for “having the courage and perseverance to write legislation and get bills introduced and passed.” Harris County’s 397 TB infections accounted for more than a quarter of the state total in 2007, and Houston’s rate of 12.7 infections per 100,000 people is nearly three times the national average. “This preventable disease is hurting north and east Harris County much more than it should,” Green said. “Our goal is to wipe it out in Texas, and wipe it off the map across the world.” Green’s multi-pronged plan to eliminate TB in the United States, the Comprehensive Tuberculosis Elimination Act (H.R. 1532), would increase funding for the Centers for Disease Control’s (CDC) National Program for the Elimination of Tuberculosis, expand research on diagnostic and treatment tools at the National Institutes of Health and the CDC, and authorize the “Blueprint Plan for TB Vaccine Development” at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, among other provisions. Tuberculosis is a deadly disease caused by bacteria that usually attack the lungs. It kills more than half of its victims when left untreated. Reductions in federal funding for programs that fight TB caused a resurgence in infections in the late 1980s that has not abated. TB is the top infectious disease killer in the world, taking nearly 1.6 million lives per year. Experts predict TB will kill 30 million more in the next decade.
04.02.2008	Houston, Texas - Houston’s Bureau of Tuberculosis Control bestowed their Honor Award on Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) for his efforts to eradicate tuberculosis during a World TB Day event. Dr. Charles Wallace, director of the Infectious Disease, Intervention and Control branch of the Texas Department of State Health Services (DSHS) presented the award to a representative from Green’s office on March 28. During the presentation ceremony Wallace said it was good to have knowledgeable friends working on behalf of tuberculosis (TB) elimination in Washington, and commended Green for “having the courage and perseverance to write legislation and get bills introduced and passed.” Harris County’s 397 TB infections accounted for more than a quarter of the state total in 2007, and Houston’s rate of 12.7 infections per 100,000 people is nearly three times the national average. “This preventable disease is hurting north and east Harris County much more than it should,” Green said. “Our goal is to wipe it out in Texas, and wipe it off the map across the world.” Green’s multi-pronged plan to eliminate TB in the United States, the Comprehensive Tuberculosis Elimination Act (H.R. 1532), would increase funding for the Centers for Disease Control’s (CDC) National Program for the Elimination of Tuberculosis, expand research on diagnostic and treatment tools at the National Institutes of Health and the CDC, and authorize the “Blueprint Plan for TB Vaccine Development” at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, among other provisions. Tuberculosis is a deadly disease caused by bacteria that usually attack the lungs. It kills more than half of its victims when left untreated. Reductions in federal funding for programs that fight TB caused a resurgence in infections in the late 1980s that has not abated. TB is the top infectious disease killer in the world, taking nearly 1.6 million lives per year. Experts predict TB will kill 30 million more in the next decade.###
03.25.2008	Washington, DC - The following is a list of member project requests submitted by Rep. Gene Green to the House Appropriations Committee for consideration during the fiscal year 2009 Appropriations process. The project requests are listed in no particular priority order and are organized by the subcommittee to which they were submitted, in accordance with House rules. Subcommittee on Labor-HHS-Education: $400,000 for AVANCE Houston’s Parent-Child Education Program $275,000 for San Jacinto Methodist Hospital’s Baytown Mobile Medical Unit $500,000 for the YMCA of Greater Houston’s Coordinated Approach to Child Health program $3 million for MD Anderson Cancer Center’s Center for Targeted Therapy $2 million for early childhood education in the Houston Independent School District $484,292 for mammography unit upgrades for the LBJ and Aldine Health Clinics $500,000 to support student programs at the KIPP Foundation $2.58 million for the University of Texas Health Science Center’s Personal Medical Bank. $200,000 for Project GRAD USA to increase graduation rates and college attendance $500,000 for a 3-Tesla MRI Scanner for St. Luke’s Episcopal Hospital $250,000 for the University of Texas Medical Branch’s Regional Maternal and Child Health Program $546,421 for the Harris County Hospital District’s Telemedicine Project Subcommittee on Transportation: $125 million for the Houston Metropolitan Transit Authority’s light rail project $90 million for Houston METRO buses and bus facilities $1 million for the City of Baytown’s infrastructure improvement and streetscape development $35 million for the Texas Department of Transportation for connectors at the junction of BW 8 and US 59 $2 million for The City of Pasadena’s Capitan Theatre Restoration $2 million for the City of Houston’s Dorsett Street Park sports complex project $1 million for the Gulf Coast Freight Rail District’s East Belt Quiet Zone $118,000 for the Harris County Community and Economic Development Department’s Manufacturing Youth Awareness Campaign “Dream It, Do It” $2.5 million for the City of Baytown to continue downtown revitalization and streetscaping Subcommittee on Defense: $500,000 for the Battleship Texas Foundation for a Battleship Texas dry dock Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment: $6 million for the Aldine Management District’s Water and Sanitary Sewer Initiative $1 million for the City of Baytown’s Wastewater Infrastructure Initiative $2.6 million for the Mickey Leland National Urban Air Toxics Research Center Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science: $2 million for the Buffalo Bayou Partnership’s Buffalo Bayou Tributary and Water Quality Initiative $2 million for the Houston Mayor’s Office of Public Safety and Homeland Security’s Houston Interoperability Initiative $750,000 for the Memorial Hermann Healthcare System’s Life Flight Operations Center $746,147 for Houston Community College’s Public Safety Institute $3 million for the University of Houston Southwest Public Safety Technology Center’s Regional Control-Command Network Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development: $10 million for Harris County Flood Control District’s Greens Bayou Federal Flood Control Project $100,000 for Harris County Flood Control District’s Halls Bayou Federal Flood Control Project $66.7 million for the Port of Houston Authority’s Houston-Galveston Navigation Channels Project $100,000 for the Harris County Flood Control District’s Hunting Bayou Federal Flood Control Project $15 million for the University of Houston’s National Wind Energy Center Subcommittee on Agriculture, FDA and Related Agencies: $352,500 for the Houston Zoo’s Improved Quarantine Management Program $930,000 for Texas A&M University System and Texas Agrilife Research’s Improving the Nutritional Characteristics and Acceptability of Whole Grain Foods among Children Participating in the National School Lunch Program $500, 000 for Texas A&M University System and Texas Agrilife Research’s Land Management for Flood Control in North Harris County Subcommittee on Homeland Security $25 million for the Gulf Intracoastal Canal Association’s Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge Widening Project $5 million for the City of Baytown’s Baytown Emergency Communications Hardening
03.25.2008	Washington, DC - The following is a list of member project requests submitted by Rep. Gene Green to the House Appropriations Committee for consideration during the fiscal year 2009 Appropriations process. The project requests are listed in no particular priority order and are organized by the subcommittee to which they were submitted, in accordance with House rules. Subcommittee on Labor-HHS-Education:$400,000 for AVANCE Houston’s Parent-Child Education Program$275,000 for San Jacinto Methodist Hospital’s Baytown Mobile Medical Unit$500,000 for the YMCA of Greater Houston’s Coordinated Approach to Child Health program$3 million for MD Anderson Cancer Center’s Center for Targeted Therapy$2 million for early childhood education in the Houston Independent School District$484,292 for mammography unit upgrades for the LBJ and Aldine Health Clinics$500,000 to support student programs at the KIPP Foundation$2.58 million for the University of Texas Health Science Center’s Personal Medical Bank.$200,000 for Project GRAD USA to increase graduation rates and college attendance$500,000 for a 3-Tesla MRI Scanner for St. Luke’s Episcopal Hospital$250,000 for the University of Texas Medical Branch’s Regional Maternal and Child Health Program$546,421 for the Harris County Hospital District’s Telemedicine Project Subcommittee on Transportation:$125 million for the Houston Metropolitan Transit Authority’s light rail project$90 million for Houston METRO buses and bus facilities$1 million for the City of Baytown’s infrastructure improvement and streetscape development$35 million for the Texas Department of Transportation for connectors at the junction of BW 8 and US 59$2 million for The City of Pasadena’s Capitan Theatre Restoration$2 million for the City of Houston’s Dorsett Street Park sports complex project$1 million for the Gulf Coast Freight Rail District’s East Belt Quiet Zone$118,000 for the Harris County Community and Economic Development Department’s Manufacturing Youth Awareness Campaign “Dream It, Do It”$2.5 million for the City of Baytown to continue downtown revitalization and streetscaping Subcommittee on Defense:$500,000 for the Battleship Texas Foundation for a Battleship Texas dry dock Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment:$6 million for the Aldine Management District’s Water and Sanitary Sewer Initiative$1 million for the City of Baytown’s Wastewater Infrastructure Initiative$2.6 million for the Mickey Leland National Urban Air Toxics Research Center Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science:$2 million for the Buffalo Bayou Partnership’s Buffalo Bayou Tributary and Water Quality Initiative$2 million for the Houston Mayor’s Office of Public Safety and Homeland Security’s Houston Interoperability Initiative$750,000 for the Memorial Hermann Healthcare System’s Life Flight Operations Center$746,147 for Houston Community College’s Public Safety Institute$3 million for the University of Houston Southwest Public Safety Technology Center’s Regional Control-Command Network Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development:$10 million for Harris County Flood Control District’s Greens Bayou Federal Flood Control Project$100,000 for Harris County Flood Control District’s Halls Bayou Federal Flood Control Project$66.7 million for the Port of Houston Authority’s Houston-Galveston Navigation Channels Project$100,000 for the Harris County Flood Control District’s Hunting Bayou Federal Flood Control Project$15 million for the University of Houston’s National Wind Energy Center Subcommittee on Agriculture, FDA and Related Agencies:$352,500 for the Houston Zoo’s Improved Quarantine Management Program$930,000 for Texas A&M University System and Texas Agrilife Research’s Improving the Nutritional Characteristics and Acceptability of Whole Grain Foods among Children Participating in the National School Lunch Program$500, 000 for Texas A&M University System and Texas Agrilife Research’s Land Management for Flood Control in North Harris County Subcommittee on Homeland Security$25 million for the Gulf Intracoastal Canal Association’s Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge Widening Project$5 million for the City of Baytown’s Baytown Emergency Communications Hardening
03.13.2008	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) accepted the 2008 Distinguished Community Health Champion Award this morning from the National Association of Health Centers. The annual award is presented to leaders who have contributed the most to improving public health at the community level. In his acceptance speech, Green spoke about the importance of community health centers for low-income and uninsured individuals in Texas. “Without a medical home to receive treatment, these [uninsured] patients are likely to forego care until their medical problems require emergency treatment or inpatient hospital care,” Green said. “By providing primary, preventive, and sometimes specialty care, health centers encourage patients to seek treatment before treatable medical problems escalate to emergency room visits.” Green noted that Texas ranks last in the nation for medical insurance coverage, with 25 percent uninsured. He also said there are more than a million people without medical insurance in Houston, but fewer than ten federally-qualified health centers. Green introduced the Health Centers Renewal Act (H.R. 1343) last year, which has 236 cosponsors and would allow for five years of increased federal funding as part of a plan to expand the federal Health Center Program to serve 30 million patients by 2015. Green serves as vice chair of the Health Subcommittee, which has held hearings on the bill. A subcommittee mark up of the bill is expected to be scheduled in April. Green has also secured public/private funding for existing health centers in Harris County and worked with community leaders to increase health center sites and service. He received the Safety Net Champion Award from the National Association of Hospitals in 2007. ###
03.13.2008	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) accepted the 2008 Distinguished Community Health Champion Award this morning from the National Association of Health Centers. The annual award is presented to leaders who have contributed the most to improving public health at the community level. In his acceptance speech, Green spoke about the importance of community health centers for low-income and uninsured individuals in Texas. “Without a medical home to receive treatment, these [uninsured] patients are likely to forego care until their medical problems require emergency treatment or inpatient hospital care,” Green said. “By providing primary, preventive, and sometimes specialty care, health centers encourage patients to seek treatment before treatable medical problems escalate to emergency room visits.” Green noted that Texas ranks last in the nation for medical insurance coverage, with 25 percent uninsured. He also said there are more than a million people without medical insurance in Houston, but fewer than ten federally-qualified health centers. Green introduced the Health Centers Renewal Act (H.R. 1343) last year, which has 236 cosponsors and would allow for five years of increased federal funding as part of a plan to expand the federal Health Center Program to serve 30 million patients by 2015. Green serves as vice chair of the Health Subcommittee, which has held hearings on the bill. A subcommittee mark up of the bill is expected to be scheduled in April. Green has also secured public/private funding for existing health centers in Harris County and worked with community leaders to increase health center sites and service. He received the Safety Net Champion Award from the National Association of Hospitals in 2007. ###
02.14.2008	Washington, DC - Aldine High School junior Carlos DeLaTorre began serving as a United States House of Representatives Page this semester, sponsored by Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston). DeLaTorre is the captain of the school’s speech and debate team, vice-president of the Future Business Leaders of America, a co-editor of the newspaper, and a member of the National Honor Society and the student council. “Carlos is the first person I thought of when we received your letter indicating we were invited to recommend a student,” Aldine High School Principal Cecil Hutson said in a letter to Green. “Carlos’ contribution to Aldine High School is immense. He gives new meaning to ‘Mustang Pride,’” Hutson also said. The mustang is the Aldine High School mascot. DeLaTorre will serve as a Page from February to June. He lives in the Page Residence Hall in Washington, D.C. and works in the Capitol Building and its surrounding Annex, where he interacts daily with Members of Congress and their staffs. Former Pages who have become well known include Tiger Woods, Bill Gates, and Members of Congress including John Dingell, Dan Boren, Rush Holt, and Jim Kolbe.
02.14.2008	Washington, DC - Aldine High School junior Carlos DeLaTorre began serving as a United States House of Representatives Page this semester, sponsored by Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston). DeLaTorre is the captain of the school’s speech and debate team, vice-president of the Future Business Leaders of America, a co-editor of the newspaper, and a member of the National Honor Society and the student council. “Carlos is the first person I thought of when we received your letter indicating we were invited to recommend a student,” Aldine High School Principal Cecil Hutson said in a letter to Green. “Carlos’ contribution to Aldine High School is immense. He gives new meaning to ‘Mustang Pride,’” Hutson also said. The mustang is the Aldine High School mascot. DeLaTorre will serve as a Page from February to June. He lives in the Page Residence Hall in Washington, D.C. and works in the Capitol Building and its surrounding Annex, where he interacts daily with Members of Congress and their staffs. Former Pages who have become well known include Tiger Woods, Bill Gates, and Members of Congress including John Dingell, Dan Boren, Rush Holt, and Jim Kolbe.###
02.11.2008	Washington, DC - Two local high school students won college scholarships at a recent Sallie Mae Fund Paying for College Workshop hosted by Rep. Gene Green. Senior Ruben Campillo and sophomore Melissa Jimenez, both students at Stephen F. Austin High School in Houston, won $500 each to be used toward college tuition. The “Paying for College Workshop” is a free semiannual interactive seminar that explores programs and resources that can help make college affordable. Green congratulated the students in person at the seminar. These workshops are held at high schools in the 29th Congressional District. “Twice a year we hold these workshops to encourage high school students to continue their education and to contribute a little bit to their savings,” Green said. “I hope Ruben and Melissa follow their dreams to go to college. Their ambition has already made them great examples for other students in the area,” he added. According to the Digest of Education Statistics 2005, the median annual income in 2004 for those who had completed a bachelor’s degree was $57,220. The median income of those who didn’t continue their education after high school was $35,725 – just 60 percent of what they could earn if they had gone on to college.
02.11.2008	Washington, DC - Two local high school students won college scholarships at a recent Sallie Mae Fund Paying for College Workshop hosted by Rep. Gene Green. Senior Ruben Campillo and sophomore Melissa Jimenez, both students at Stephen F. Austin High School in Houston, won $500 each to be used toward college tuition. The “Paying for College Workshop” is a free semiannual interactive seminar that explores programs and resources that can help make college affordable. Green congratulated the students in person at the seminar. These workshops are held at high schools in the 29th Congressional District. “Twice a year we hold these workshops to encourage high school students to continue their education and to contribute a little bit to their savings,” Green said. “I hope Ruben and Melissa follow their dreams to go to college. Their ambition has already made them great examples for other students in the area,” he added. According to the Digest of Education Statistics 2005, the median annual income in 2004 for those who had completed a bachelor’s degree was $57,220. The median income of those who didn’t continue their education after high school was $35,725 – just 60 percent of what they could earn if they had gone on to college.###
02.07.2008	HOUSTON, TX - Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) has nominated nine exceptional students from the 29th Congressional District to the four United States service academies: the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. Nominees will find out whether they have been accepted in the next few months. “Each of these students is worthy of admission to the service academies,” said Green. “They have made our district proud by excelling in school and advancing on the path to college, and I’m proud to recommend them to the service academies,” he added. Before their nominations, the students attended a “Military Academy Day” hosted by Green’s office as the first step in their nomination process. Each year as part of the Academy Day, representatives from each service academy answer questions and provide information about the application and nomination processes. Service academy nominees from the 29th Congressional District are: Andrew Escalante - United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs St. Pius X High School Nicholas Watts - United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Pasadena Independent School District – Pasadena High School (graduated) Currently at the United States Air Force Academy Prep School Andrew Beltran – United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Houston Independent School District - M.B. Lamar Senior High School Greg Ayers – United States Military Academy at West Point (received offer of appointment) Northeast Christian Academy Andrew Williams – United States Naval Academy at Annapolis Galena Park Independent School District - North Shore High School Matthew Chapa – United States Naval Academy at Annapolis Goose Creek Independent School District - Ross S. Sterling High School Devin Baker - United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Sheldon Independent School District – C.E. King High School Humberto Trejo – United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point Yes College Preparatory Schools Daniel Stiles - United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Sheldon Independent School District – C.E. King High School Above: Rep. Green with Andrew Beltran, Air Force Academy nominee. Above: Rep. Green with Andrew Williams, Naval Academy nominee. Above: Rep. Green with Greg Ayers, West Point nominee. Above: Rep. Green with Humberto Trejo, Merchant Marine Academy nominee.
02.07.2008	HOUSTON, TX - Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) has nominated nine exceptional students from the 29th Congressional District to the four United States service academies: the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, the United States Military Academy at West Point, the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. Nominees will find out whether they have been accepted in the next few months. “Each of these students is worthy of admission to the service academies,” said Green. “They have made our district proud by excelling in school and advancing on the path to college, and I’m proud to recommend them to the service academies,” he added. Before their nominations, the students attended a “Military Academy Day” hosted by Green’s office as the first step in their nomination process. Each year as part of the Academy Day, representatives from each service academy answer questions and provide information about the application and nomination processes. Service academy nominees from the 29th Congressional District are: Andrew Escalante - United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs St. Pius X High School Nicholas Watts - United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Pasadena Independent School District – Pasadena High School (graduated) Currently at the United States Air Force Academy Prep School Andrew Beltran – United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Houston Independent School District - M.B. Lamar Senior High School Greg Ayers– United States Military Academy at West Point (received offer of appointment) Northeast Christian Academy Andrew Williams – United States Naval Academy at Annapolis Galena Park Independent School District - North Shore High School Matthew Chapa – United States Naval Academy at Annapolis Goose Creek Independent School District - Ross S. Sterling High School Devin Baker - United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Sheldon Independent School District – C.E. King High School Humberto Trejo – United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point Yes College Preparatory Schools Daniel Stiles - United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs Sheldon Independent School District – C.E. King High School ###
02.04.2008	Washington, DC - After years of working with the Port of Houston, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the International Longshoreman’s Association and commodity suppliers, U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) has succeeded in bringing additional bid points to the Houston Ship Channel. This means shippers contracted by the United States government to deliver food aid to foreign countries will now be able to choose whichever Ship Channel terminal best suits their needs, reducing their costs and passing savings on to taxpayers. “This change will make the process of moving foreign assistance through Houston more transparent and less costly,” Green said. “This is good news for the Port of Houston, the government, the commodity shippers and people around the world who desperately need the food that moves through our port,” he added. Until 2001, USDA didn’t differentiate between the various terminals along the Houston Ship Channel, so commodity suppliers simply submitted bids via “Port of Houston.” Although each terminal’s operating costs and fees were different, commodity suppliers factored in the highest possible costs when submitting bids regardless of which terminal was actually used. From 2004 until now, the Houston Pilot Program was implemented which established separate bid points for the Barbour’s Cut and Turning Basin receiving locations. Now, the Pilot Program has been cancelled and shippers will choose from among twelve terminal bid points. H. Thomas Kornegay, executive director of the Port of Houston Authority, said the new process would provide freight handlers the opportunity to work directly with commodity suppliers in quoting their rates and services, and that interaction would result in more efficient management of transit shed space. “We believe this process will provide the lowest landed cost in the handling of USDA products through the Port of Houston and subsequently benefit the taxpayer and those countries that have the greatest need for our products,” Kornegay said. The policy change took effect with the invitation for bid points issued January 23.
02.04.2008	Washington, DC - After years of working with the Port of Houston, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the International Longshoreman’s Association and commodity suppliers, U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) has succeeded in bringing additional bid points to the Houston Ship Channel. This means shippers contracted by the United States government to deliver food aid to foreign countries will now be able to choose whichever Ship Channel terminal best suits their needs, reducing their costs and passing savings on to taxpayers. “This change will make the process of moving foreign assistance through Houston more transparent and less costly,” Green said. “This is good news for the Port of Houston, the government, the commodity shippers and people around the world who desperately need the food that moves through our port,” he added. Until 2001, USDA didn’t differentiate between the various terminals along the Houston Ship Channel, so commodity suppliers simply submitted bids via “Port of Houston.” Although each terminal’s operating costs and fees were different, commodity suppliers factored in the highest possible costs when submitting bids regardless of which terminal was actually used. From 2004 until now, the Houston Pilot Program was implemented which established separate bid points for the Barbour’s Cut and Turning Basin receiving locations. Now, the Pilot Program has been cancelled and shippers will choose from among twelve terminal bid points. H. Thomas Kornegay, executive director of the Port of Houston Authority, said the new process would provide freight handlers the opportunity to work directly with commodity suppliers in quoting their rates and services, and that interaction would result in more efficient management of transit shed space. “We believe this process will provide the lowest landed cost in the handling of USDA products through the Port of Houston and subsequently benefit the taxpayer and those countries that have the greatest need for our products,” Kornegay said. The policy change took effect with the invitation for bid points issued January 23.###
01.29.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) revealed a plan today that would dramatically improve mental health care for people enrolled in addiction treatment programs across the country. “We often hear politicians talk about health care, but mental health doesn’t get as much attention,” Green said. “This bill will help shore up the relatively meager resources allocated to mental health treatment.” The Community Mental Health Services Improvement Act would authorize increased funding for a collection of programs chosen for their effectiveness in treating substance abuse and mental illnesses. $64 million to provide substance abuse and mental health treatment together (called co-location) at community health facilities, resulting in efficient and integrated treatment $20 million to support service and infrastructure improvements for telemental health, which will improve treatment in medically-underserved areas $10 million to improve the National Health Information Infrastructure The bill is supported by prominent mental health organizations, including the National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare and the National Association of Community Health Centers. U.S. Senator Jack Reed (D-Rhode Island) has introduced a companion bill in the Senate.
01.29.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) revealed a plan today that would dramatically improve mental health care for people enrolled in addiction treatment programs across the country. “We often hear politicians talk about health care, but mental health doesn’t get as much attention,” Green said. “This bill will help shore up the relatively meager resources allocated to mental health treatment.” The Community Mental Health Services Improvement Act would authorize increased funding for a collection of programs chosen for their effectiveness in treating substance abuse and mental illnesses. $64 million to provide substance abuse and mental health treatment together (called co-location) at community health facilities, resulting in efficient and integrated treatment$20 million to support service and infrastructure improvements for telemental health, which will improve treatment in medically-underserved areas$10 million to improve the National Health Information Infrastructure The bill is supported by prominent mental health organizations, including the National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare and the National Association of Community Health Centers. U.S. Senator Jack Reed (D-Rhode Island) has introduced a companion bill in the Senate.###
01.17.2008	BAYTOWN, TX – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) has requested placement of a Social Security office in Baytown after hearing from constituents who attended his town hall meetings this month. In a letter to the Social Security commissioner dated January 16, Green said the nearest Social Security office, located in Pasadena, is overburdened and the region’s growing population required a new facility. Green also pointed out in the letter that many Texas Social Security offices are located in cities smaller than Baytown. “This is why we have town hall meetings around the district several times a year,” Green said. “The best projects our office undertakes come straight from community suggestions.” ###
01.17.2008	BAYTOWN, TX – U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) has requested placement of a Social Security office in Baytown after hearing from constituents who attended his town hall meetings this month. In a letter to the Social Security commissioner dated January 16, Green said the nearest Social Security office, located in Pasadena, is overburdened and the region’s growing population required a new facility. Green also pointed out in the letter that many Texas Social Security offices are located in cities smaller than Baytown. “This is why we have town hall meetings around the district several times a year,” Green said. “The best projects our office undertakes come straight from community suggestions.” ###
12.19.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congress has approved funding for several projects in the 29th Congressional District that are vital for transportation, health, commerce, education and other sectors. The funding was included in a consolidated appropriations bill (H.R. 2764) that provides money to keep the government running through FY2008. The President is expected to sign the bill soon. 29th Congressional District projects included in the bill are: Houston METRO – $19.6 million to continue the implementation of rail and bus rapid transit portions of METRO Solutions, including the North and Southeast light rail lines. Harris County Transit Enhancement Study - $100,000 for economic development studies related to two community transit enhancement projects: San Jacinto North/Northshore Transit Circulator and Galena Park Transit Connector. Gateway to Care – $219,000 to facilitate the development of community-based health centers. Harris County Hospitals Diabetes Program - $404,000 to purchase equipment for comprehensive diabetes care in Harris County. Houston YMCA Juvenile Justice Outreach - $446,500 for juvenile justice programs operated by the YMCA of Greater Houston to combat youth crime, gang activity and to encourage community involvement. Harris Co Sheriff’s Office - $2.232 million to provide sheriff’s officers with mobile data computers with two-way remote access and in-car digital video cameras to link with license plate recognition technology and improve interoperability. Greens Bayou - $480,000 will help conclude the study portion of the flood control project, which is now fast approaching its construction phase. The Greens Bayou project has a high 3.7 benefit to cost ratio, and in 2001 over 15,000 homes in this watershed flooded in Tropical Storm Allison. Houston Ship Channel - $16.9 million will be used to keep the channel at its authorized depth, which is critical to keeping the channel navigable for the tankers that bring in crude oil to our refineries. Houston Ship Channel - $15.7 million will go towards important environmental restoration work in the deepening and widening project. And from the Department of Defense appropriations bill: University of Houston – Consortium for Nanotechnology in Aerospace Commerce and Technology (CONTACT) - $2.4 million for research, development and commercialization of nanomaterials.
12.19.2007	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will host a series of town hall meetings in January. He will also hold a special meeting focused on issues that affect seniors and a Paying for College Workshop, both on January 9. “We’ve had a great response to these in the past, and I hope every resident will be able to make it to one or more of the town hall meetings,” Green said. “Hearing from the people of the 29th District at these town hall meetings helps me do my job well.” Texas’ 29th U.S. Congressional District incorporates parts of Houston and the metro area, including Aldine, Northside and the East End, Baytown, Channelview, South Houston, Pasadena, Galena Park, and Jacinto City. All residents of the 29th Congressional District are encouraged to attend, ask questions and express their views and concerns. To find out which Congressional District you live in, visit: https://www.house.gov/. WHAT: Town hall meetings with Congressman Gene Green WHERE AND WHEN: Wednesday, January 2, 6:30 p.m. Aldine YOUTH Community Center 4700 Aldine Mail Route, Houston Thursday, January 3, 7:00 p.m. In conjunction with the Songwood Civic Club Greater Vision Church 615 Westshire, Houston Saturday, January 5, 9:00 a.m. South Houston Community Building 1007 State Street, South Houston 11:00 a.m. Baytown City Hall 2401 Market, Baytown Monday, January 7, 7:00 p.m. In conjunction with the Eastwood Civic Association E.B. Cape Center 4501 Leeland, Houston Tuesday, January 8, 6:00 p.m. Janowski Elementary School 7500 Bauman, Houston Wednesday, January 9, 10:00 a.m. Senior Citizens Issues Forum Leo Grayson Community Center 13828 Corpus Christi, Houston 7:00 p.m. Sallie Mae Fund Paying for College Workshop Stephen F. Austin High School 1700 Dumble, Houston Monday, January 14, 7:30 p.m. In conjunction with the Pecan Park Civic Association Ingrando Park Community Center 7302 Keller, Houston Tuesday, January 22, 6:00 p.m. San Jacinto College North Fine Arts Theater 5800 Uvalde, Houston ###
12.19.2007	Washington, D.C. – Congress has approved funding for several projects in the 29th Congressional District that are vital for transportation, health, commerce, education and other sectors. The funding was included in a consolidated appropriations bill (H.R. 2764) that provides money to keep the government running through FY2008. The President is expected to sign the bill soon. 29th Congressional District projects included in the bill are: HoustonMETRO – $19.6 million to continue the implementation of rail and bus rapid transit portions of METRO Solutions, including the North and Southeast light rail lines. HarrisCountyTransit Enhancement Study - $100,000 for economic development studies related to two community transit enhancement projects: San Jacinto North/Northshore Transit Circulator and Galena Park Transit Connector. Gateway to Care – $219,000 to facilitate the development of community-based health centers. Harris County Hospitals Diabetes Program - $404,000 to purchase equipment for comprehensive diabetes care in Harris County. Houston YMCA Juvenile Justice Outreach - $446,500 for juvenile justice programs operated by the YMCA of Greater Houston to combat youth crime, gang activity and to encourage community involvement. Harris Co Sheriff’s Office - $2.232 million to provide sheriff’s officers with mobile data computers with two-way remote access and in-car digital video cameras to link with license plate recognition technology and improve interoperability. Greens Bayou - $480,000 will help conclude the study portion of the flood control project, which is now fast approaching its construction phase. The Greens Bayou project has a high 3.7 benefit to cost ratio, and in 2001 over 15,000 homes in this watershed flooded in Tropical Storm Allison. HoustonShip Channel - $16.9 million will be used to keep the channel at its authorized depth, which is critical to keeping the channel navigable for the tankers that bring in crude oil to our refineries. HoustonShip Channel - $15.7 million will go towards important environmental restoration work in the deepening and widening project. And from the Department of Defense appropriations bill:Universityof Houston– Consortium for Nanotechnology in Aerospace Commerce and Technology (CONTACT) - $2.4 million for research, development and commercialization of nanomaterials.###
12.19.2007	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will host a series of town hall meetings in January. He will also hold a special meeting focused on issues that affect seniors and a Paying for College Workshop, both on January 9. “We’ve had a great response to these in the past, and I hope every resident will be able to make it to one or more of the town hall meetings,” Green said. “Hearing from the people of the 29th District at these town hall meetings helps me do my job well.” Texas’ 29th U.S. Congressional District incorporates parts of Houston and the metro area, including Aldine, Northside and the East End, Baytown, Channelview, South Houston, Pasadena, Galena Park, and Jacinto City. All residents of the 29th Congressional District are encouraged to attend, ask questions and express their views and concerns. To find out which Congressional District you live in, visit: https://www.house.gov/. WHAT: Town hall meetings with Congressman Gene Green WHERE AND WHEN: Wednesday, January 2, 6:30 p.m.AldineYOUTH Community Center 4700 Aldine Mail Route, Houston Thursday, January 3, 7:00 p.m. In conjunction with the Songwood Civic Club Greater Vision Church 615 Westshire, Houston Saturday, January 5, 9:00 a.m.SouthHouston Community Building 1007 State Street, South Houston 11:00 a.m. Baytown City Hall 2401 Market, Baytown Monday, January 7, 7:00 p.m. In conjunction with the Eastwood Civic Association E.B. Cape Center 4501 Leeland, Houston Tuesday, January 8, 6:00 p.m. Janowski Elementary School 7500 Bauman, Houston Wednesday, January 9, 10:00 a.m.Senior Citizens Issues Forum Leo Grayson Community Center 13828 Corpus Christi, Houston 7:00 p.m. Sallie Mae Fund Paying for College Workshop Stephen F. Austin High School 1700 Dumble, Houston Monday, January 14, 7:30 p.m.In conjunction with the Pecan Park Civic AssociationIngrandoPark Community Center7302 Keller, Houston Tuesday, January 22, 6:00 p.m.San JacintoCollegeNorthFine Arts Theater5800 Uvalde, Houston ###
12.17.2007	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) is leading a bipartisan group of Members of Congress in support of Continental Airlines’ application to the U.S. Department of Transportation to add daily nonstop flights between Houston and Bogotá, Colombia. If the application is approved, Continental would become the first-ever United States carrier to provide daily overnight service between the cities. Flights would arrive in each city in the early morning and depart each city late at night. In the letter to U.S. Transportation Secretary Mary Peters, Members of Congress say the new schedule would “benefit business and leisure travelers and shippers in the U.S.-Bogota market who want to arrive via a U.S. airline at the beginning of the work day and depart at the end of the work day.” The Members also wrote that Houston would be a “superior gateway point” for flights to Colombia because of its location in the middle of the country and the current lack of available flights to South America from the region. One hundred and ten cities would have access to the flights via Continental’s Houston hub. Continental’s application comes as the Department of Transportation considers how to allocate up to four daily flights to United States carriers between December 2007 and October 2008. Continental plans to begin offering the flights beginning in the summer of 2008 if the application is approved. Members of Congress who signed the letter were Democratic Reps. Charlie Gonzalez (Texas), Sheila Jackson-Lee (Texas), Nick Lampson (Texas), Solomon Ortiz (Texas), Ciro Rodriguez (Texas), and Al Green (Texas); and Republican Reps. Kevin Brady (Texas), John Culberson (Texas), John Carter (Texas), Charles Boustany (La.), Ted Poe (Texas), Mike McCaul (Texas), and Ron Paul (Texas).
12.17.2007	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) is leading a bipartisan group of Members of Congress in support of Continental Airlines’ application to the U.S. Department of Transportation to add daily nonstop flights between Houston and Bogotá, Colombia. If the application is approved, Continental would become the first-ever United States carrier to provide daily overnight service between the cities. Flights would arrive in each city in the early morning and depart each city late at night. In the letter to U.S. Transportation Secretary Mary Peters, Members of Congress say the new schedule would “benefit business and leisure travelers and shippers in the U.S.-Bogota market who want to arrive via a U.S. airline at the beginning of the work day and depart at the end of the work day.” The Members also wrote that Houston would be a “superior gateway point” for flights to Colombia because of its location in the middle of the country and the current lack of available flights to South America from the region. One hundred and ten cities would have access to the flights via Continental’s Houston hub. Continental’s application comes as the Department of Transportation considers how to allocate up to four daily flights to United States carriers between December 2007 and October 2008. Continental plans to begin offering the flights beginning in the summer of 2008 if the application is approved. Members of Congress who signed the letter were Democratic Reps. Charlie Gonzalez (Texas), Sheila Jackson-Lee (Texas), Nick Lampson (Texas), Solomon Ortiz (Texas), Ciro Rodriguez (Texas), and Al Green (Texas); and Republican Reps. Kevin Brady (Texas), John Culberson (Texas), John Carter (Texas), Charles Boustany (La.), Ted Poe (Texas), Mike McCaul (Texas), and Ron Paul (Texas).###
11.16.2007	Washington, DC - Houston’s light rail system could receive federal funding for the first time if a bill approved by the House this week also passes the Senate in the few remaining work days of the year. If the Senate passes the bill, it will be sent to the President, who has threatened to veto it. Twenty million dollars has been designated for Metro Phase II in the transportation appropriations bill for FY 2008 (H.R. 3074), which originally passed the House in July and the Senate in September. A compromise bill worked out between House and Senate negotiators passed the House this week (270-147) and will probably come before the Senate soon. Also included in the appropriations bill is $100,000 for Harris County to conduct an economic development study on transit needs in Baytown and Pasadena, and a prohibition against turning highway lanes into toll lanes. “Including this money in the Transportation bill is a huge step toward securing regular funding for Houston’s light rail,” Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) said. We’re going to need more than $20 million to get this project done, but once it becomes a part of the budget, it’s likely to stay there.” Green, who requested the light rail funding be included in the bill, also noted that Houston hadn’t received its fair share in light rail funding. “Our city is too far behind the times in providing convenient transportation for our citizens and visitors,” he said. “We’re the fourth-largest city in the country, but we rank 11th in accommodation of light rail riders, behind St. Louis and Dallas.” Rep. John Culberson (R-Texas) also requested funding. "Our success with this $20 million set aside for these two METRO rail lines or services in Congressman Gene Green's district proves that we keep our word - we will only fund those rail lines that our constituents support," he said.
11.16.2007	Washington, DC - Houston’s light rail system could receive federal funding for the first time if a bill approved by the House this week also passes the Senate in the few remaining work days of the year. If the Senate passes the bill, it will be sent to the President, who has threatened to veto it. Twenty million dollars has been designated for Metro Phase II in the transportation appropriations bill for FY 2008 (H.R. 3074), which originally passed the House in July and the Senate in September. A compromise bill worked out between House and Senate negotiators passed the House this week (270-147) and will probably come before the Senate soon. Also included in the appropriations bill is $100,000 for Harris County to conduct an economic development study on transit needs in Baytown and Pasadena, and a prohibition against turning highway lanes into toll lanes. “Including this money in the Transportation bill is a huge step toward securing regular funding for Houston’s light rail,” Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) said. We’re going to need more than $20 million to get this project done, but once it becomes a part of the budget, it’s likely to stay there.” Green, who requested the light rail funding be included in the bill, also noted that Houston hadn’t received its fair share in light rail funding. “Our city is too far behind the times in providing convenient transportation for our citizens and visitors,” he said. “We’re the fourth-largest city in the country, but we rank 11th in accommodation of light rail riders, behind St. Louis and Dallas.” Rep. John Culberson (R-Texas) also requested funding. "Our success with this $20 million set aside for these two METRO rail lines or services in Congressman Gene Green's district proves that we keep our word - we will only fund those rail lines that our constituents support," he said.###
11.05.2007	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) voted with a majority of the House of Representatives to override President Bush’s veto of the Water Resources and Development Act (WRDA, H.R. 1495) today. The bill includes authorization to use federal funds to upgrade the Halls Bayou Federal Flood Control Project, which protects Harris County from potential flooding. The House voted 361 to 54 to override the president’s Nov. 2 veto of the bill, which passed in August by a vote of 381-40 in the House and 81-12 in the Senate. The bill is expected to become law when the Senate votes on the override later this week, which will mark the first override of a presidential veto since President Bush took office in 2001. WRDA authorizes $23.2 billion for the construction of more than 900 water resource development projects and studies by the Army Corps of Engineers for flood control, navigation, and environmental restoration. “Now that WRDA will become law, residents of Harris County can feel more secure about what might happen in the case of extreme weather. Many people have lost homes in our area, and an improved Halls Bayou Flood Control Project will help prevent similar tragedies in the future,” Rep. Green said. WRDA would authorize federal funds to pay for approximately 65 percent of the Halls Bayou Flood Control Project. The Harris County Flood Control District can begin work right away and receive federal reimbursement later. For more information on the Harris County Flood Control District’s projects involving East Harris County, visit https://www.hcfcd.org/P_geninfo.html.
11.05.2007	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) voted with a majority of the House of Representatives to override President Bush’s veto of the Water Resources and Development Act (WRDA, H.R. 1495) today. The bill includes authorization to use federal funds to upgrade the Halls Bayou Federal Flood Control Project, which protects Harris County from potential flooding. The House voted 361 to 54 to override the president’s Nov. 2 veto of the bill, which passed in August by a vote of 381-40 in the House and 81-12 in the Senate. The bill is expected to become law when the Senate votes on the override later this week, which will mark the first override of a presidential veto since President Bush took office in 2001. WRDA authorizes $23.2 billion for the construction of more than 900 water resource development projects and studies by the Army Corps of Engineers for flood control, navigation, and environmental restoration. “Now that WRDA will become law, residents of Harris County can feel more secure about what might happen in the case of extreme weather. Many people have lost homes in our area, and an improved Halls Bayou Flood Control Project will help prevent similar tragedies in the future,” Rep. Green said. WRDA would authorize federal funds to pay for approximately 65 percent of the Halls Bayou Flood Control Project. The Harris County Flood Control District can begin work right away and receive federal reimbursement later. For more information on the Harris County Flood Control District’s projects involving East Harris County, visit https://www.hcfcd.org/P_geninfo.html.###
10.31.2007	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green’s (D-Texas) bipartisan Local Radio Freedom Act, introduced today with Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), declares congressional opposition to new charges for radio stations that play recorded music. The resolution says essential services like providing information during national emergencies and natural disasters would be threatened if local radio stations were required to pay a new performance fee. It also says local radio stations and other small businesses would “suffer severe economic hardship” if a performance fee were imposed. “Radio provides free exposure and promotion for record labels’ acts; broadcasters shouldn’t have to pay labels for the privilege of supporting them. If the stations ‘pay to play,’ the cost will go up for everyone and free over-the-air radio could be hurt,” Green said. Rep. Conaway said local radio broadcasters provide “essential information” to their communities. “Communities rely on local radio stations to relay important weather information, national emergency information, and important news that will affect their community,” he said. “The proposed performance taxes on local radio would devastate small local broadcasters in rural areas and ultimately hurt small businesses and consumers.” The resolution’s text says local radio provides essential community services that would be threatened by a new performance fee, such as “public affairs programming, sports, and hundreds of millions of dollars of time for public service announcements and local fund raising efforts for worthy charitable causes.” Congress has consistently rejected such proposed performance fees, notably in 1971, 1976 and 1995.
10.31.2007	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green’s (D-Texas) bipartisan Local Radio Freedom Act, introduced today with Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), declares congressional opposition to new charges for radio stations that play recorded music. The resolution says essential services like providing information during national emergencies and natural disasters would be threatened if local radio stations were required to pay a new performance fee. It also says local radio stations and other small businesses would “suffer severe economic hardship” if a performance fee were imposed. “Radio provides free exposure and promotion for record labels’ acts; broadcasters shouldn’t have to pay labels for the privilege of supporting them. If the stations ‘pay to play,’ the cost will go up for everyone and free over-the-air radio could be hurt,” Green said. Rep. Conaway said local radio broadcasters provide “essential information” to their communities. “Communities rely on local radio stations to relay important weather information, national emergency information, and important news that will affect their community,” he said. “The proposed performance taxes on local radio would devastate small local broadcasters in rural areas and ultimately hurt small businesses and consumers.” The resolution’s text says local radio provides essential community services that would be threatened by a new performance fee, such as “public affairs programming, sports, and hundreds of millions of dollars of time for public service announcements and local fund raising efforts for worthy charitable causes.” Congress has consistently rejected such proposed performance fees, notably in 1971, 1976 and 1995.###
10.18.2007	Mr. Speaker, we have a health care crisis in our country. In vetoing our SCHIP bill, the President has invoked a bad policy based on bad information. · The President should know we target low-income children below 200 percent of poverty. · The President should know we focus SCHIP on children, and phase out parents and childless adults that were allowed by his administration. · The President should know the bill covers 4 million children who are eligible for SCHIP but not enrolled. · The President should know the SCHIP bill does not cover undocumented children Under the President’s proposal, 6 million of our children eligible for SCHIP would remain without health insurance. And, an additional 700,000 children currently in the program would join them in the ranks of the uninsured. If the President is so concerned about adults and middle income families in the SCHIP program, he should sign this bill which effectively addresses those concerns. America’s low-income children shouldn’t suffer because the President can’t get his facts straight. More than 8 in 10 Americans support this legislation to expand SCHIP for children. When the White House asks Congress for a special appropriation of $190 billion for the war in Iraq, over and above hundreds of billions already spent, why can’t they find much less to cover 10 million low-income children? This is the people’s House, and it is our duty to override this veto and listen to the American people.
10.18.2007	Mr. Speaker, we have a health care crisis in our country. In vetoing our SCHIP bill, the President has invoked a bad policy based on bad information. · The President should know we target low-income children below 200 percent of poverty. · The President should know we focus SCHIP on children, and phase out parents and childless adults that were allowed by his administration. · The President should know the bill covers 4 million children who are eligible for SCHIP but not enrolled. · The President should know the SCHIP bill does not cover undocumented children Under the President’s proposal, 6 million of our children eligible for SCHIP would remain without health insurance. And, an additional 700,000 children currently in the program would join them in the ranks of the uninsured. If the President is so concerned about adults and middle income families in the SCHIP program, he should sign this bill which effectively addresses those concerns. America’s low-income children shouldn’t suffer because the President can’t get his facts straight. More than 8 in 10 Americans support this legislation to expand SCHIP for children. When the White House asks Congress for a special appropriation of $190 billion for the war in Iraq, over and above hundreds of billions already spent, why can’t they find much less to cover 10 million low-income children? This is the people’s House, and it is our duty to override this veto and listen to the American people.###
10.15.2007	Washington, DC - The U.S. House of Representatives passed the Vision Care for Kids Act of 2007 (H.R. 507) on Monday night. The bill would create a new grant program aimed at treating dangerous children’s vision problems that can cause blindness if left alone. “It’s a simple solution to a serious problem,” Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas), a founding member of the Congressional Vision Caucus, said. “We target uninsured school-age children at risk for vision disorders, especially those younger than nine. The cost of early treatment is always less than the cost of late treatment, so we would be spending scarce health care dollars in the wisest manner possible.” Under the Vision Care for Kids Act of 2007, the federal government would provide grants to strengthen state efforts to provide comprehensive eye exams for children who have been identified through vision screenings as having a potential vision disorder. Eye problems such as ambylopia (lazy eye) and strabismus (misaligned eyes) can cause irreversible damage to vision, including blindness, if they’re not detected and treated at an early age. Green said the legislation is necessary because 80 percent of children who fail a vision screening never get a comprehensive eye exam. He said he is also concerned that 25 percent of parents whose children fail to receive follow up care say they didn’t have the resources to get their kids the help they needed. Several health care organizations representing pediatric eye and vision health interests endorsed The Vision Care for Kids Act, including the American Academy of Ophthalmology, the American Optometric Association, the American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus, the Vision Council of America and Prevent Blindness America.
10.15.2007	Washington, DC - The U.S. House of Representatives passed the Vision Care for Kids Act of 2007 (H.R. 507) on Monday night. The bill would create a new grant program aimed at treating dangerous children’s vision problems that can cause blindness if left alone. “It’s a simple solution to a serious problem,” Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas), a founding member of the Congressional Vision Caucus, said. “We target uninsured school-age children at risk for vision disorders, especially those younger than nine. The cost of early treatment is always less than the cost of late treatment, so we would be spending scarce health care dollars in the wisest manner possible.” Under the Vision Care for Kids Act of 2007, the federal government would provide grants to strengthen state efforts to provide comprehensive eye exams for children who have been identified through vision screenings as having a potential vision disorder. Eye problems such as ambylopia (lazy eye) and strabismus (misaligned eyes) can cause irreversible damage to vision, including blindness, if they’re not detected and treated at an early age. Green said the legislation is necessary because 80 percent of children who fail a vision screening never get a comprehensive eye exam. He said he is also concerned that 25 percent of parents whose children fail to receive follow up care say they didn’t have the resources to get their kids the help they needed. Several health care organizations representing pediatric eye and vision health interests endorsed The Vision Care for Kids Act, including the American Academy of Ophthalmology, the American Optometric Association, the American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus, the Vision Council of America and Prevent Blindness America.###
10.11.2007	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green joined other government officials to call on the public to give their opinions on a proposed Superfund cleanup site in the San Jacinto River, and to contribute information they may have about the origins of the water contamination. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will accept comments from area residents on the proposed cleanup as part of a process the agency must follow to place the waste pits on the National Priority List. The comment period will close on November 18. “It’s essential for the people who live in the area to make their wishes known,” Green said. “And we especially hope to find out more about the paper mill that caused the pollution in the first place.” The paper mill waste pits, located just north of the I-10 bridge over the San Jacinto River, are contaminated with polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins, commonly called dioxins, and polychlorinated dibenzofurans, commonly called furans. Wildlife in the area, including fish, has become contaminated with the pollutants, which can cause cancer and other health problems in humans. Despite posted warnings, some area residents continue to use contaminated parts of the river as a food source. The pollution emanates from paper mill waste pits used in the 1960s and1970s by McGinnis Industrial Maintenance Corp. The pits are now abandoned. Once the waste pits are placed on the National Priority List, the EPA will begin preparations to clean up the mess. However, if the parties responsible for the pollution are found they could bear some of the burden of the cleanup effort. Harris County Judge Ed Emmett also recently urged the public to give the EPA any information they might have about McGinnis Industrial Maintenance Corp., including photos. To register your opinion about the proposed cleanup effort, or to contribute information on parties responsible for the pollution, send an e-mail to superfund.docket@epa.gov, or write to Docket Coordinator, Headquarters, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, CERCLA Docket Office, mail code 5305T, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., Washington D.C., 20460. Be sure to refer to the San Jacinto River Waste Pits in all of your correspondence. For more information on the San Jacinto River Waste Pits, see the entry on the EPA’s web site: https://www.epa.gov/superfund/sites/npl/nar1773.htm.
10.11.2007	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green joined other government officials to call on the public to give their opinions on a proposed Superfund cleanup site in the San Jacinto River, and to contribute information they may have about the origins of the water contamination. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will accept comments from area residents on the proposed cleanup as part of a process the agency must follow to place the waste pits on the National Priority List. The comment period will close on November 18. “It’s essential for the people who live in the area to make their wishes known,” Green said. “And we especially hope to find out more about the paper mill that caused the pollution in the first place.” The paper mill waste pits, located just north of the I-10 bridge over the San Jacinto River, are contaminated with polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins, commonly called dioxins, and polychlorinated dibenzofurans, commonly called furans. Wildlife in the area, including fish, has become contaminated with the pollutants, which can cause cancer and other health problems in humans. Despite posted warnings, some area residents continue to use contaminated parts of the river as a food source. The pollution emanates from paper mill waste pits used in the 1960s and1970s by McGinnis Industrial Maintenance Corp. The pits are now abandoned. Once the waste pits are placed on the National Priority List, the EPA will begin preparations to clean up the mess. However, if the parties responsible for the pollution are found they could bear some of the burden of the cleanup effort. Harris County Judge Ed Emmett also recently urged the public to give the EPA any information they might have about McGinnis Industrial Maintenance Corp., including photos. To register your opinion about the proposed cleanup effort, or to contribute information on parties responsible for the pollution, send an e-mail to superfund.docket@epa.gov, or write to Docket Coordinator, Headquarters, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, CERCLA Docket Office, mail code 5305T, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., Washington D.C., 20460. Be sure to refer to the San Jacinto River Waste Pits in all of your correspondence. For more information on the San Jacinto River Waste Pits, see the entry on the EPA’s web site: https://www.epa.gov/superfund/sites/npl/nar1773.htm.###
10.02.2007	Houston, TX - The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has placed the San Jacinto River Waste Pits on a shortlist of potential Superfund sites. The waste pits, located near the I-10 bridge over the San Jacinto River, are contaminated with polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins, commonly called dioxins, and polychlorinated dibenzofurans, commonly called furans. Wildlife in the area, including fish, has become contaminated with the pollutants, which can cause cancer and other health problems in humans. Despite posted warnings, some area residents continue to use contaminated parts of the river as a food source. “This is a major step toward really getting the river cleaned up,” Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) said. “I’ve been working with the EPA and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) to get to this point when the source of the dioxin was discovered.” The pollution emanates from paper mill waste pits used in the 1960s and1970s and now abandoned. Scientists knew for many years that pollution levels in the San Jacinto River were high, but they didn’t know why until recently when they discovered the pits. In March 2007, Green and Rep. Ted Poe (R-Texas) asked the EPA to designate the waste pits a Superfund site, and in July the State of Texas added its name to the request. “The San Jacinto River has been a part life for folks in that area long before the Texas Revolution,” Poe said. “Cleaning it up for future generations must take a top priority. I am very pleased that the EPA has recognized the need to do so and I will continue to work closely with Congressman Green to see that we do everything possible to get the federal assistance needed to clean it up.” The Superfund designation would normally provide federal money to help clean up pollutants if the responsible parties aren’t found or are insolvent. However, because appropriations for Superfund projects have dwindled in recent years, Green may have to make a special request in order to fund a cleanup of the site. For more information, see the San Jacinto River Waste Pits entry on the EPA’s web site: https://www.epa.gov/superfund/sites/npl/nar1773.htm.
10.02.2007	Houston, TX - The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has placed the San Jacinto River Waste Pits on a shortlist of potential Superfund sites. The waste pits, located near the I-10 bridge over the San Jacinto River, are contaminated with polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins, commonly called dioxins, and polychlorinated dibenzofurans, commonly called furans. Wildlife in the area, including fish, has become contaminated with the pollutants, which can cause cancer and other health problems in humans. Despite posted warnings, some area residents continue to use contaminated parts of the river as a food source. “This is a major step toward really getting the river cleaned up,” Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) said. “I’ve been working with the EPA and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) to get to this point when the source of the dioxin was discovered.” The pollution emanates from paper mill waste pits used in the 1960s and1970s and now abandoned. Scientists knew for many years that pollution levels in the San Jacinto River were high, but they didn’t know why until recently when they discovered the pits. In March 2007, Green and Rep. Ted Poe (R-Texas) asked the EPA to designate the waste pits a Superfund site, and in July the State of Texas added its name to the request. “The San Jacinto River has been a part life for folks in that area long before the Texas Revolution,” Poe said. “Cleaning it up for future generations must take a top priority. I am very pleased that the EPA has recognized the need to do so and I will continue to work closely with Congressman Green to see that we do everything possible to get the federal assistance needed to clean it up.” The Superfund designation would normally provide federal money to help clean up pollutants if the responsible parties aren’t found or are insolvent. However, because appropriations for Superfund projects have dwindled in recent years, Green may have to make a special request in order to fund a cleanup of the site. For more information, see the San Jacinto River Waste Pits entry on the EPA’s web site: https://www.epa.gov/superfund/sites/npl/nar1773.htm.###
09.27.2007	Houston, TX - The National Association of Hospitals has awarded Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) their Safety Net Champion Award. Rep. Green accepted the award during a ceremony September 19 in the U.S. Capitol's Lyndon Baines Johnson room. Harris County Hospital District Community Services Administrator Margo Hilliard presented the award to Green in recognition of his commitment to the Harris County Hospital District. In Harris County and in Washington, D.C., Green has opposed Medicaid cuts and policies that would have a detrimental effect on the Hospital District's ability to absorb the increasing costs of uncompensated and indigent care. Green and his staff have worked extensively with the Harris County Hospital District, notably on trauma legislation and the Ask Your Nurse Program. Green’s office introduced the Trauma Care Systems Planning and Development Act (H.R. 727), which became law earlier this year. The legislation reauthorized federal trauma care programs under the Public Health Service Act and will help states improve their trauma systems. It also streamlines the way the Health Resources and Services Administration manages trauma care and emergency medical services. It aims to enhance communication and coordination between the state and federal levels, and it includes provisions for improving trauma care in rural areas, where response time is often much slower than in cities where emergency facilities are nearby. Green also worked to develop the Healthy Community Access Program, which provided funds to Gateway to Care in Harris County. Gateway to Care has worked with health care partners like the Hospital District to spearhead initiatives to improve access and encourage folks to seek appropriate medical care. The Ask Your Nurse telephone service was one of the first initiatives of Gateway to Care. It provides a hotline (713.633.CALL) to a Hospital District nurse, who can help determine whether a caller would get the best care at the emergency room or at a doctor’s office. Ask Your Nurse addresses inappropriate use of our hospital emergency rooms, one of the most pressing health care problems in Harris County and across the country. In addition, Green is a co-sponsor of the Public and Teaching Hospital Preservation Act (H.R. 3533), which would extend the one-year moratorium on federal Medicaid regulations that cut billions of dollars in essential funding to safety net hospital and health systems across the country.
09.27.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives approved by voice vote an amendment sponsored by Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) to help low-income families purchase critical flood insurance for their homes. The amendment was approved to H.R. 3121, the Flood Insurance Reform and Modernization Act, which passed the House by a vote of 263-146. “I believe my amendment will bring both security and peace of mind to hard-working families in East Harris County and across the nation that need a helping hand to get the protection their homes deserve,” Green said. HR 3121 requires the Federal Emergency Management Agency to conduct a thorough review of the nation’s flood maps. The updates will identify previously un-designated homes as being located within flood-prone areas. Such a designation can be a burden for low-income families who must purchase expensive flood insurance as a result. Green’s amendment provides for a limited, five year phase-in of flood insurance premiums for low-income homeowners or renters whose primary residence is placed within a flood plain through an updating of flood insurance program maps. These homes can be valued at no more than 75% of the median home value for the state in which the property is located. In Texas, that amounts to approximately $85,500 in 2007, which is higher than the median value of homes in the 29th Congressional District. Tropical Storm Allison swept through Texas in 2001, causing substantial flood damage to more than 15,000 Harris County homes and businesses. Though some of these properties were protected by National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) coverage, some area residents could not afford to purchase a policy and suffered devastating financial losses. “My amendment is designed to make the NFIP program more affordable for low-income homeowners, increase participation in the program, and decrease the likelihood of a taxpayer bailout in the event of a flood,” Green said.
09.27.2007	Houston, TX - The National Association of Hospitals has awarded Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) their Safety Net Champion Award. Rep. Green accepted the award during a ceremony September 19 in the U.S. Capitol's Lyndon Baines Johnson room. Harris County Hospital District Community Services Administrator Margo Hilliard presented the award to Green in recognition of his commitment to the Harris County Hospital District. In Harris County and in Washington, D.C., Green has opposed Medicaid cuts and policies that would have a detrimental effect on the Hospital District's ability to absorb the increasing costs of uncompensated and indigent care. Green and his staff have worked extensively with the Harris County Hospital District, notably on trauma legislation and the Ask Your Nurse Program. Green’s office introduced the Trauma Care Systems Planning and Development Act (H.R. 727), which became law earlier this year. The legislation reauthorized federal trauma care programs under the Public Health Service Act and will help states improve their trauma systems. It also streamlines the way the Health Resources and Services Administration manages trauma care and emergency medical services. It aims to enhance communication and coordination between the state and federal levels, and it includes provisions for improving trauma care in rural areas, where response time is often much slower than in cities where emergency facilities are nearby. Green also worked to develop the Healthy Community Access Program, which provided funds to Gateway to Care in Harris County. Gateway to Care has worked with health care partners like the Hospital District to spearhead initiatives to improve access and encourage folks to seek appropriate medical care. The Ask Your Nurse telephone service was one of the first initiatives of Gateway to Care. It provides a hotline (713.633.CALL) to a Hospital District nurse, who can help determine whether a caller would get the best care at the emergency room or at a doctor’s office. Ask Your Nurse addresses inappropriate use of our hospital emergency rooms, one of the most pressing health care problems in Harris County and across the country. In addition, Green is a co-sponsor of the Public and Teaching Hospital Preservation Act (H.R. 3533), which would extend the one-year moratorium on federal Medicaid regulations that cut billions of dollars in essential funding to safety net hospital and health systems across the country.###
09.27.2007	Washington, D.C.– Today, the House of Representatives approved by voice vote an amendment sponsored by Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) to help low-income families purchase critical flood insurance for their homes. The amendment was approved to H.R. 3121, the Flood Insurance Reform and Modernization Act, which passed the House by a vote of 263-146. “I believe my amendment will bring both security and peace of mind to hard-working families in East Harris County and across the nation that need a helping hand to get the protection their homes deserve,” Green said. HR 3121 requires the Federal Emergency Management Agency to conduct a thorough review of the nation’s flood maps. The updates will identify previously un-designated homes as being located within flood-prone areas. Such a designation can be a burden for low-income families who must purchase expensive flood insurance as a result. Green’s amendment provides for a limited, five year phase-in of flood insurance premiums for low-income homeowners or renters whose primary residence is placed within a flood plain through an updating of flood insurance program maps. These homes can be valued at no more than 75% of the median home value for the state in which the property is located. In Texas, that amounts to approximately $85,500 in 2007, which is higher than the median value of homes in the 29th Congressional District. Tropical Storm Allison swept through Texas in 2001, causing substantial flood damage to more than 15,000 Harris County homes and businesses. Though some of these properties were protected by National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) coverage, some area residents could not afford to purchase a policy and suffered devastating financial losses. “My amendment is designed to make the NFIP program more affordable for low-income homeowners, increase participation in the program, and decrease the likelihood of a taxpayer bailout in the event of a flood,” Green said.###
09.22.2007	Houston, TX - Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) joined more than 150 community volunteers to clean up the North Channel Area on September 22. The volunteers removed litter, including tires and other debris, and mowed overgrown yards and vacant lots. Volunteers came from City of Houston Neighborhood Protection, the Northeast Division Officers of the Houston Police Department, Woodshadows I & II Civic Clubs, Holiday Forest Civic Club, Songwood Civic Club, the Pleasantville League and Northshore Middle School. Green’s office sponsored the cleanup in collaboration with the City of Houston – Keep Houston Beautiful, the Houston Police Department Northeast and the Northeast Houston Advisory Council.
09.22.2007	Houston, TX - Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) joined more than 150 community volunteers to clean up the North Channel Area on September 22. The volunteers removed litter, including tires and other debris, and mowed overgrown yards and vacant lots. Volunteers came from City of Houston Neighborhood Protection, the Northeast Division Officers of the Houston Police Department, Woodshadows I & II Civic Clubs, Holiday Forest Civic Club, Songwood Civic Club, the Pleasantville League and Northshore Middle School. Green’s office sponsored the cleanup in collaboration with the City of Houston – Keep Houston Beautiful, the Houston Police Department Northeast and the Northeast Houston Advisory Council.###
09.10.2007	Washington, DC – Chairman Lantos and Chairman Skelton, thank you for holding this joint hearing of our two committees. I would like to welcome General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker and I look forward to their testimony. I would also like to thank them for their service to our country. You have bravely and selflessly served our country under the most difficult circumstances. Despite your efforts, and relentless work by our military, the overall picture in Iraq remains one of instability and of a government not willing to make the necessary political to move its country forward. For more than four years the Administration has had the flexibility to conduct this war as it has seen fit, and I have continued to support funding to ensure our troops have the equipment and resources necessary to carry out their mission, but through no fault of their own, they are carrying out a flawed mission and receiving inconsistent help, at best, from Iraqi security forces. Despite Administration statements otherwise, it seems the empirical evidence, what we read and hear in the news, all point toward a cycle of continued violence and sectarian fighting in Iraq. This indefinite, open-ended commitment of our resources and troops cannot continue. The Administration must accept binding benchmarks for the Iraqi government to hold their feet to the fire, force them to make progress, or start redeploying our troops. Instead, the President vetoed legislation that would have done this earlier this year, and will soon be sending us a request for another $50 billion to continue funding the same war strategy we have seen for the last four and half years. I understand some progress is being made, but it does not appear to be widespread, and there are many accounts of other areas, that appeared stable two or three years ago, to be backsliding into violent, unstable areas. Our highest priority is our responsibility to continue to protect our nation from terrorists. While American troops and resources remain in Iraq, the National Intelligence Estimate reports that Al Qaeda is regaining strength and reconstituting in Afghanistan. Last week in front of these two committees, General John Batiste testified that “our all-volunteer military cannot continue the current cycle of deployments for much longer and certainly not much beyond April of 2008. Our Army and Marine Corps are at a breaking point…We have no strategic reserve.” We cannot continue to police a civil war that is depleting our military resource and hampering our ability to recruit and maintain experienced military personnel. I look forward to the testimony from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker today, but as we heard from multiple witnesses last week, the situation in Iraq appears to be continued violence with political and sectarian infighting. Again, I thank the chairmen for holding this hearing.
09.10.2007	Washington, DC – Chairman Lantos and Chairman Skelton, thank you for holding this joint hearing of our two committees. I would like to welcome General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker and I look forward to their testimony. I would also like to thank them for their service to our country. You have bravely and selflessly served our country under the most difficult circumstances. Despite your efforts, and relentless work by our military, the overall picture in Iraq remains one of instability and of a government not willing to make the necessary political to move its country forward. For more than four years the Administration has had the flexibility to conduct this war as it has seen fit, and I have continued to support funding to ensure our troops have the equipment and resources necessary to carry out their mission, but through no fault of their own, they are carrying out a flawed mission and receiving inconsistent help, at best, from Iraqi security forces. Despite Administration statements otherwise, it seems the empirical evidence, what we read and hear in the news, all point toward a cycle of continued violence and sectarian fighting in Iraq. This indefinite, open-ended commitment of our resources and troops cannot continue. The Administration must accept binding benchmarks for the Iraqi government to hold their feet to the fire, force them to make progress, or start redeploying our troops. Instead, the President vetoed legislation that would have done this earlier this year, and will soon be sending us a request for another $50 billion to continue funding the same war strategy we have seen for the last four and half years. I understand some progress is being made, but it does not appear to be widespread, and there are many accounts of other areas, that appeared stable two or three years ago, to be backsliding into violent, unstable areas. Our highest priority is our responsibility to continue to protect our nation from terrorists. While American troops and resources remain in Iraq, the National Intelligence Estimate reports that Al Qaeda is regaining strength and reconstituting in Afghanistan. Last week in front of these two committees, General John Batiste testified that “our all-volunteer military cannot continue the current cycle of deployments for much longer and certainly not much beyond April of 2008. Our Army and Marine Corps are at a breaking point…We have no strategic reserve.” We cannot continue to police a civil war that is depleting our military resource and hampering our ability to recruit and maintain experienced military personnel. I look forward to the testimony from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker today, but as we heard from multiple witnesses last week, the situation in Iraq appears to be continued violence with political and sectarian infighting. Again, I thank the chairmen for holding this hearing.###
08.27.2007	Washington, DC - Upon learning that the Harris County Department of Education (HCDoE) planned to rename a public building after Ronald Reagan, U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) sent the attached letter to the superintendent and board members, questioning the decision. “Many of our constituents prefer that this building be renamed for someone with more significance in our community,” Green wrote, and suggested that Texas icon and former President Lyndon Johnson would be a more appropriate choice. Green pointed out that Johnson was well known as a champion of many education programs, including Head Start, and that he signed more than 60 education-related bills. Green also wrote that President Reagan had tried unsuccessfully to close down the federal Department of Education. The building is located on Irvington Boulevard, just a few blocks from where Green grew up, and is part of the districts Green represented in the Texas Legislature and now in the U.S. Congress. Green concluded his letter by referring to the largely Republican Harris County Department of Education Board of Trustees, saying the decision to rename the building should be made “with education in mind and not the political opinions of seven board members.”
08.09.2007	Houston, TX - Rep. Gene Green will present a Congressional Record Plaque Friday to Sidney Berger, director of the University of Houston’s School of Theatre & Dance since 1969, for leading the department to national acclaim. Berger is stepping down from this position but will continue teaching at UH and overseeing the Shakespeare and Children’s Festivals he founded in 1975 and 1978 respectively. Since he became director of the UH School of Theatre & Dance, its capacity has grown tenfold, from 30 students to 300. During his tenure at UH, he pursued the philosophy that student actors benefit from working directly with accomplished theater professionals. Berger also founded the Shakespeare Theatre Association of America. He teaches an “Acting Shakespeare” class each semester and has served for more than 20 years on the American board of the International Shakespeare’s Globe Centre in London. Where: Miller Outdoor Theater Hermann Park 100 Concert Drive Houston, TX 77030 When: Friday, August 10, 2007 8:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
08.04.2007	Washington, DC -Today, Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) hosted the 12th Annual Immunization Day. In addition to providing free immunizations for children, the day’s event, held at four different elementary schools in the 29th Congressional District, will give parents an opportunity to learn about preventive health initiatives. “Immunizations are one of the most important disease prevention steps we can take to protect our children,” said Congressman Green. “Every year I am happy to see so many people will take advantage of our Immunization Day because childhood immunizations prevent future heartache, pain and expense.” Every year several elementary schools are selected to host the event. Rep. Green offered his thanks to the healthcare groups that have helped make Immunization Day a success: The Almatha Clark Taylor School Based Clinic, the Texas Children’s Hospital Mobile Clinic, and the Harris County Public Health and Environmental Services-Humble and Baytown Clinics. As a member of the Health Subcommittee, Green has made health care in east Harris County a priority. This year alone, he has had legislative success in trauma care coordination, improving SCHIP, reauthorizing and expanding the Health Center Program, and ensuring drug safety through FDA reform. Trauma care Trauma and emergency medical care are vital to response efforts in the face of natural disasters, terrorist threats and chemical spills in addition to the everyday accidents that clog hospitals around the country. That’s why Rep. Green authored legislation reauthorizing the Trauma Care Systems Planning and Development Act which was signed into law on May 3, 2007. The bill provides grants to integrate and coordinate regional trauma care, the leading cause of death for people under 44. State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Rep. Green serves as Vice Chairman of the Health Subcommittee which crafted legislation to reauthorize the State Childrens’ Health Insurance Program. This reauthorization measure, the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 225-204 on August 1, 2007. He authored a provision in the CHAMP Act to mandate 12-month continuous eligibility for low-income children, which would improve upon Texas’ current 6-month continuous eligibility. Short eligibility periods result in fewer enrolled children and more preventable health problems. He also supported efforts to streamline the application process and provide states with outreach and enrollment incentives to counter Texas’s devastating cuts to the Texas CHIP program and significant enrollment barriers. Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHC) The Health Centers program provides access to quality preventive and primary health care in medically underserved communities, including service to millions of Americans without health insurance. Health centers are a critical component of our nation’s health care safety net, providing quality health care to 16 million underserved individuals nationwide. The FQHC designation allows health clinics to utilize federal funding to provide primary and preventive care to the uninsured. Rep. Green authored legislation with more than 200 co-sponsors to reauthorize the Health Center program with a goal of serving 30 million Americans by 2015. When the Congress returns from the August District Work Period, Rep. Green will continue his effort to reauthorize the Health Center program through legislative hearings in the House Energy and Commerce Committee. FDA Drug Safety Rep. Green belongs to the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, which has worked on a bi-partisan basis to investigate the drug safety concerns brought to light by scandals associated with drugs such as Vioxx, Ketek and Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors, which are typically used to treat depression. These investigations uncovered significant safety lapses at the FDA and shed a bright light on the FDA’s bias toward drug approval with too little attention paid to post-market safety concerns. As a result, Congress crafted the FDA Amendments Act of 2007, which makes important changes at the FDA to place a greater emphasis on post-market surveillance within the agency. Vision Care for Kids Act Rep. Green is the chief author of the Vision Care for Kids Act, legislation to establish a grant program to provide children with comprehensive eye exams. While many states have taken steps to identify children for potential vision disorders through mandatory vision screenings, as many as 80 percent of children who fail vision screenings do not receive the follow-up vision care they need. The House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee has approved the Vision Care for Kids Act, which would target funding to uninsured school-age children. The bill now moves to the full committee, and later the House floor, for consideration and a vote.
06.15.2007	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) voted to approve sweeping legislation to protect America and invest in homeland security today. The Homeland Security Appropriations bill was approved by a vote of 268-150. One of the top priorities in the bill is border control. It provides 3,000 additional Border Patrol agents, provides first responders with additional training and equipment, and improves aviation and port security. “My goal was to secure the Port of Houston and to beef up border security,” Green said. “I’m proud to pass legislation that makes the border a top priority and gives the men and women who respond to emergencies the tools and resources they need.” The earmark-free bill was delayed for three days by Republicans who wanted earmarks to appear in this and other appropriations bills instead of being inserted during a House-Senate conference. Democrats said the more than 30,000 earmark requests would not be thoroughly reviewed in time to be attached to the appropriations bills, but agreed to include them in bills brought to the floor after the Energy-Water appropriations bill next week. The 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations bill: Includes funding for 3,000 additional Border Patrol agents, bringing the number of Border Patrol agents to 17,819. Rejects the President’s proposed $1 billion cut for training and equipment for first responders and instead expands support for local law enforcement personnel, firefighters and other first responders. Invests in port security by significantly increasing funding to protect critical port facilities and infrastructure. Improves aviation security by providing funding for new explosive detection systems at airports and funding to double the amount of cargo screened on passenger aircraft. The legislation approved by the House today also includes strong oversight provisions to ensure Congressional oversight of money spent by the Department of Homeland Security and eliminates no-bid contracts. “The American people expect their dollars to be spent on important efforts to secure our nation, not wasted on no-bid contracts,” said Green. “The Democratic Congress has insisted on tough new accountability measures to ensure we protect our communities and spend taxpayers' dollars the right way.”
06.15.2007	Washington, DC - Concerned about the effect an upcoming mandatory transition to digital television signals will have on consumers, Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) requested a pre-registration system to give the public fair warning. “Our regular (analog) television sets will not receive signals after February 18, 2009,” Green said. “That is the date of our national transition from analog to digital signals. Consumers need to know now that in less than two years analog sets will not work without a converter box.” Green sent the request in a letter on June 14 to the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), an executive branch agency that advises the president on telecommunications issues. In the letter, Green said an internet-based pre-registration system for the digital-to-analog converter box coupons would benefit electronic and retail industries by indicating the demand for the boxes in different areas of the country. Green also wrote that such a program would allow Congress to assess the adequacy of funding for the coupon program and make additional allocations if necessary. Marc Pearl, executive director of the Consumer Electronics Retailers Coalition, encouraged the NTIA to make the coupon program “as simple, understandable, and convenient as possible.” Commenting on Green’s plan for a pre-registration system, he said, “Giving NTIA’s program contractor this information to work with should help them address consumer, as well as manufacturer and retailer, planning requirements.” The transition from an analog to a digital television signal will take place on February 18, 2009, and affect the entire country. Televisions that receive over-the-air television signals, as opposed to cable or satellite signals, will need a converter box in order to function after the transition. Some recently manufactured televisions can receive either analog or digital signals, but many households have analog-only sets. The Converter Box Coupon Program provides a $40 subsidy to help pay for the converter boxes, which will cost around $60 for the low-end models, and the NTIA will begin accepting applications January 1, 2008. Green has enlisted the support of several other members of Congress in his effort to establish a pre-registration system. Those who signed his letter to the NTIA were: Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), Rep. Jay Inslee (D-Wash.), Rep. Baron Hill (D-Ind.), Rep. Ed Towns (D-NY), and Rep. Charlie Gonzalez, (D-Texas).
06.14.2007	Washington, DC - The following is a list of member project requests submitted by Rep. Gene Green to the House Appropriations Committee for consideration during the fiscal year 2008 Appropriations process. The project requests are listed in no particular priority order and are organized by the subcommittee to which they were submitted, in accordance with House rules. Subcommittee on Labor-HHS-Education: $225,000 for Gateway to Care’s Community Health Center Support Program $584,000 for Harris Co. Hospital District’s Diabetes Program $250,000 for UTMB Maternal and Child Health Program’s Pasadena Clinic $500,000 for AVANCE Houston for its Early Childhood Intervention and Family Support Program $329,400 for San Jacinto College’s Strengthening Access to and Success in Postsecondary Education Program $200,000 for Project GRAD for implementation and evaluation of its college readiness program $500,000 for Recipe for Success Foundation to expand its nutrition education program in local elementary schools $1.5 million for St. Lukes Episcopal Hospital’s Non-Invasive Robotic Arm Neurovascular Diagnostic and Research Program $3.4 million for MD Anderson Cancer Center’s Center for Targeted Therapy $100,000 for the University of Houston’s Center for Mexican American Studies Subcommittee on Transportation: $125 million for the Houston Metropolitan Transit Authority’s light rail project $12.8 million for the City of Houston’s Harrisburg Grade Crossing Project $1 million for TXDOT for the design and construction of BW8 and US59 connectors $1 million for the City of Baytown for the Texas Avenue Streetscape Program $2.2 million for the City of Houston’s Mason Park Pedestrian Bridge $500,000 for the Houston Zoo’s Enhanced Zoo Interpretives Project $186,000 for the Harris Co. Community Transit Enhancement Study $123,000 for the Economic Alliance Houston Port Region’s Economic Recovery Task Force Subcommittee on Defense: $5 million for S&B Infrastructure’s Radar/Video Fusion Vessel and Port Security Demonstration Program $3 million for the Battleship TEXAS Foundation $5 million for the University of Houston Consortium for Nanomaterials for Aerospace Commerce and Technology (CONTACT) $2.7 million for the Manganese Health Research Program Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment: $3.5 million for the Aldine Improvement District Water and Sanitary Sewer Initiative $222,000 for the City of Houston’s Remote Vehicle Emissions/Efficiency Testing Program $1.2 million for the Texas Environmental Research Consortium’s Hazardous Air Pollutants Modeling Program Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science: $2.18 million for Harris Co. to acquire coastal and estuary land along Buffalo Bayou $1.5 million for the Houston Community College Public Safety Institute $500,000 for the YMCA of Greater Houston’s Apartment Outreach Project $3 million for the Harris Co. Integrated In-Car Mobile Technology Project Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development: $3.8 million for a flood damage reduction on Greens Bayou, Harris Co. Texas ($488,000 in General Investigations, $3.3 million in Construction) $4 million for flood damage reduction on Hunting Bayou, Harris Co. Texas $50.7 million for levee and marsh construction and environmental restoration along the Houston-Galveston Navigation Channel Project $35 million for operations and maintenance for the Houston Ship Channel’s Deepening and Widening Project $100,000 for flood damage reduction on Halls Bayou, Harris Co. Texas $3.95 million for the University of Houston’s Center for Clean Fuels and Power Generation $6.1 million for the Subsea Multiphase Pumping System $5 million for the Texas Hydrogen Highway Subcommittee on Agriculture, FDA and Related Agencies: $2 million for the Self Reliance Foundation’s National Hispanic Nutrition Education and Wellness Initiative
06.09.2007	(L-R) Rep. Gene Green, Ralph Palafox of NALEO, Olga Rodriguez of USPS, Sylvia Halfhill, Joyce Ellis and Jimmy Jackson of USCIS, and Veronica Sanchez of JP Morgan Chase.Houston, TX - Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) and dozens of community volunteers helped more than 300 prospective Americans fill out and send their citizenship applications on June 9. “It was a moving experience to see these men and women take a huge step toward accomplishing their goal. Some of them have been waiting many years to have the opportunity to even apply,” Green said. The 13th annual Citizenship Day event took place at the Houston Community College Northeast campus in the Northline Mall in Houston, where people began lining up well before the official 8:00 a.m. start time. “Thanks to the number of people who volunteered, we helped more people today than we have at previous Citizenship Days,” Green said. “Hopefully next year we can get to an even greater number, especially if we have more volunteers,” he added. If you would like to help with next year’s Citizenship Day, you can contact Green’s Houston office at (281) 999-5879. Organizations that collaborated with Green’s office to make Citizenship Day a success included: AT&T Coca-Cola Constable Victor Treviño and the Precinct 6 Deputies Houston Community College Houston Organization of Postal Employees JP Morgan Chase Bank LULAC Councils 60, 18, 4566 and Youth Council 1003 NALEO United States Postal Service USCIS Applicants for American citizenship get help from volunteers at Citizenship Day, June 9, 2007.
06.06.2007	Washington, DC - With summer already scorching the Houston area, the possibility of heat-related deaths is rearing its ugly head again. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) has introduced a bill to eliminate the suffering he called “needless.” “People who live on low or fixed incomes are the ones who die every summer in our country,” Green said. “The travesty is that there is already a source of funding to help people pay utility bills, but it’s not being used effectively. Only three percent of available funding goes to cooling homes in the summer and 74 percent goes to heating homes in the winter. Our bill would fix that.” Green’s bill, the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) Equity Act of 2007 (H.R. 153), would divide federal money would evenly between homes that need heat in the winter and homes like those in Houston that need cooling in the summer. “I don’t want to make Minnesotans shiver through the winter, but there are ten times as many people suffering in the Texas summer heat,” Green said. “The system is based partly on archaic 1978 gas prices, and it’s based on politics, not need. It’s fundamentally unbalanced,” he added. Texas has 10 percent of America’s low-income families, but receives only $10 of LIHEAP funding per low-income person, the lowest amount in the nation. Minnesota, with just one tenth the number of low-income residents, receives more than $160 per person. According to the National Weather Service, hot weather killed 2,596 people between the years 1985 and 2000, five and-a-half times more than the 462 fatalities caused by cold. Green said another way to attack the problem is to appropriate more money for LIHEAP. This year he signed letters to Rep. David Obey (D-Wis.), chairman of the Labor, HHS, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee and Rep. John Spratt (D-SC), chairman of the Budget Committee asking them to fund the entire $5.1 billion that was authorized for LIHEAP in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 for fiscal year 2008. Green has tried other ways to increase funding for heat sensitive states, too. There is a secondary formula used to calculate how much money each state receives. Under this formula, population and income are given greater weight in determining distribution of funds. This would greatly benefit Texas. However, it is only triggered when Congress appropriates $2 billion or more for the program, which has rarely been the case. In 2003, Green introduced an amendment that would have activated the secondary formula whenever Congress appropriated at least $1 billion.
06.01.2007	Houston, TX - Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) will help legal residents fill out and send applications for citizenship Saturday, June 9 at 8:00 a.m. at Houston Community College’s campus in the Northline Mall in Houston. “We’re helping families navigate the bureaucracy so they can fulfill their dreams of being United States citizens,” Green said. “It’s exciting to the people who are taking this huge step toward becoming Americans, and it’s an honor to be involved,” he added. This will be the 13th annual Citizenship Day sponsored by Green, who said that in previous years demand has far exceeded the capacity of volunteers to help everyone. This year, Green hopes to help over 300 people complete and send their paperwork. The Citizenship Day event will offer legal residents of the United States the opportunity to complete all the steps necessary to apply for citizenship in one stop. The applications will be reviewed by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) officials for accuracy, and required photos will be supplied. Finally, the United States Postal Service will accept the completed applications and send them via certified mail to the USCIS. Though the Citizenship Day services are free, applicants must still pay the usual application, fingerprint and postage fees. ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS 1. You must be at least 18 years of age. 2. You must have been a legal resident of the U.S. for at least 5 years. 3. Or, if you are married to a U.S. citizen, you must have been a legal resident here for at least 3 years. ITEMS THAT YOU MUST BRING WITH YOU 1. Your permanent resident card 2. A list of the dates when you have left the country and returned since you became a permanent resident. 3. Information on when and where you have lived and worked for the past 5 years. 4. Information regarding your children and spouse, including birth certificates, marriage licenses and divorce decrees. 5. A money order or cashier’s check for $400 for the application and fingerprint fees, payable to USCIS. The citizenship exam will not be offered at this event nor will swearing-in ceremonies be conducted. The application you complete at the workshop is the first step of the citizenship process. The USCIS will take approximately six months to process it in most cases. If you have any questions regarding Citizenship Day please call (281) 847-1247.
05.31.2007	Houston, TX – Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) announced a federal grant to Houston Community Health Centers’ Denver Harbor Clinic of more than $470,000 today. The Department of Health and Human Services awarded the grant of $471,309, which will be used to enhance services and facilities in the Denver Harbor area of Houston, including hiring a new full-time dentist. According to Marisa Ponti, development officer for the Houston Community Health Centers (HCHC), the funds will nearly triple the Denver Harbor Clinic’s care capacity. In 2005 the clinic accommodated 4,200 health care encounters, and Ponti expects that number to rise to about 12,000, representing approximately 6,000 people, for 2008. “We’ll be able to treat more people and also help them to avoid getting sick in the first place” Ponti said. “Our goal is to educate the community about taking care of their own health,” she added. The Denver Harbor Clinic will use the money to expand and provide new services at an enhanced facility, which will include medical offices and house an education center that will provide free seminars on topics like women’s and children’s health. The clinic’s expansion will also allow HCHC to include a dental facility. “Low-cost dental services are a priority in Denver Harbor because demand is very high and many people here are uninsured and can’t afford expensive routine care,” Ponti said. “The waiting list for a dentist in east Houston can be three to 12 months.” Ponti said the grant will allow the clinic to hire a full-time dentist and dental hygienist. The dental services will be provided on a sliding fee scale that takes into account a patient’s income and family situation. She also said the new facility will increase the cost-effectiveness of care. The clinic is reimbursed for each Medicare or Medicaid patient the clinic sees, so the more people they treat, the more other funds such as grants are freed up to provide care to uninsured members of the community. Denver Harbor has been designated a “medically underserved area” by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Cabinet-level agency that awarded the grant. More than 20,000 Denver Harbor neighborhood residents must resort to a city-run preventive care clinic or LBJ Hospital’s emergency room, five miles away, for medical care. The Denver Harbor Clinic’s expanded services will include primary care, a lab, x-rays, dental care, mental health counseling, preventive care and patient case management for residents who otherwise must resort to a city-run preventive care clinic or LBJ Hospital’s emergency room, five miles away, for medical care. The Denver Harbor Clinic opened in 2001 in a neighborhood church for six hours a week. Today it is open 40 hours a week. The Denver Harbor Clinic is a Federally-Qualified Health Center (FQHC). FQHCs deliver preventive and primary care to patients, regardless of their ability to pay. Almost 40 percent of health center clients have no health insurance coverage, and others have inadequate health coverage. While they are not free clinics, FQHCs set charges for health care services according to clients’ income. Under the FQHC program, health centers must be governed by community boards, on which health center patients have majority representation, to ensure that the center responds to the health care needs of the community. Rep. Green is the Vice Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Health Subcommittee. In that capacity, he has introduced HR 1343, the Health Centers Renewal Act, which would reauthorize the Health Center program through 2012 and authorize increased federal funding to develop more health centers in medically-undeserved areas in Harris County, and throughout the nation.
05.22.2007	Houston, TX - Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) will observe Memorial Day by speaking at the Houston National Cemetery. “Memorial Day provides a welcome pause in our week so we can reflect on the ultimate sacrifices some of our neighbors, friends and family members have made in military service to our country,” Green said. Green will participate in the Houston National Cemetery Memorial Day Program at 10410 Veterans Memorial Drive in Houston beginning at 9:30 a.m. “This is an especially solemn Memorial Day because we are still at war,” Green said. “This Memorial Day in particular I recognize the service members who have died in Iraq and Afghanistan for their dedication, bravery and patriotism.” Approximately eight service members from the 29th Congressional District and many more with family ties to the area have been killed in Iraq or Afghanistan.
05.16.2007	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) and Rep. Al Green (D-Texas) will join victims’ family members in a press conference to announce new legislation related to the 2005 BP refinery accident. An explosion on March 23, 2005 killed 15 workers who were technically employed by contract firms but worked at BP’s refinery in Texas City. The press conference will take place May 21. “When I tried to find out why the refinery exploded and learn more about the people who were killed, I discovered that BP had not reported the deaths to OSHA [The Occupational Safety and Health Administration],” Gene Green said. “It turns out they didn’t have to report them because the workers were contractors. It seemed like the whole thing was being swept under the rug,” he added. Green has introduced legislation that would require employers to report contract workers’ injuries the same way they report their own employees’ injuries. Under H.R. 141, all deaths, injuries and illnesses among contracts workers would have to be reported to OSHA. “The workers who were killed were in trailers that were too close to the isomerization unit, which is exactly the sort of thing OSHA should know about. By making employers report accidents, we’ll be able to keep all workers safer.” Green said. Al Green will introduce additional legislation next week that would make employers criminally liable for willful safety standard violations resulting in the death of a contract employee working on their sites. In a widespread energy industry practice, many workers are employed by contract firms rather than the companies at whose sites they work. In some cases these contract workers work side by side with the company’s employees for decades. “Besides closing obvious loopholes, these bills will help resolve the injustice done to the workers who were killed,” Gene Green said. “It won’t bring anyone back, but we can avoid making the same mistakes in the future.” WHAT: Press conference with Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) and Rep. Al Green (D-Texas) on legislative response to the 2005 BP refinery explosion in Texas City, Texas WHERE: United Steelworkers Hall 311 Pasadena Blvd. Pasadena, TX 77506 WHEN: Monday, May 21, 2007, 10:30 a.m. ###
05.16.2007	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives yesterday in restoring the COPS hiring program that was eliminated last year. The COPS Reauthorization Act, H.R. 1700, is designed to help local law enforcement agencies hire 50,000 more police officers over the next six years. “I’ve always supported COPS and I was disappointed when the majority eliminated it last year,” Green said. “I’m very pleased that we could bring back these hiring grants,” he added. The COPS hiring grants program was created under the Clinton Administration in 1994. From 1995 to 2005 the program helped local law enforcement hire 117,000 additional police officers. Law enforcement agencies in the 29th Congressional District hired 930 new officers with funds from COPS during 1994 to 2005. The reauthorization will send more than $18 million more into the 29th District in the form of federal grants which will be used to hire approximately 400 more police officers. Texas has received over $459 million through the program, which it used to hire more than 6,000 new officers. “Unfortunately, the Republican-led Congress cut the program over the years until they finally got rid of it last year. But now that it’s back, Texas will get 2,500 more cops on the streets,” Green said. Under the COPS hiring grants program, the United States experienced a significant drop in crime rates. A nonpartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) report concluded, “COPS-funded increases in sworn officers per capita were associated with declines in rates of total index crimes, violent crimes, and property crime.” According to the report, COPS reduced overall crime by 200,000 to 225,000 incidents between the years 1998 and 2000. Since COPS was eliminated last year, violent crime has spiked across the country. The Police Executive Research Forum, a prominent law enforcement association, released a report that found that violent crimes rose by double digit percentages over the last two years. Among the cities surveyed, 71 percent had more murders, 80 percent saw more robberies and 67 percent reported an increase in aggravated assaults with guns since 2005. This legislation has been endorsed by the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the National Sheriffs Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Association of Police Organizations, the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the National League of Cities.
05.14.2007	Washington, DC - Nineteen Democratic members of Congress urged their leaders to balance economic and environmental interests in the Partys energy policies in a letter sent Monday. Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas), who organized the group letter, said Democrats representing energy-producing districts were wary of being misunderstood on one of the Partys most attention-grabbing issues. Global climate change is a major concern for us, and we support diversification of the energy supply by increasing renewable sources, he said. Our message is we need to be realistic and build consensus in our approach to energy policy in order to avoid disruptions in the supply and in the price of energy in this country. The letter, addressed to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-Md.), expressed concerns about a consumer backlash in the event of policy-driven price spikes and disruptions in the supply of gasoline and natural gas. Specifically, the letter urged Party leaders to consider a probable increase in demand for natural gas in the short term and likely job loss in the energy industry as they consider laws capping greenhouse gas emissions. Our goal is a climate and energy policy that maximizes greenhouse emission reductions while minimizing negative impacts to the economy such as shortages and price spikes, the letter said in part. We are hoping for a Democratic Party energy platform that the whole party can support, Green said. We want to be part of the formulation process so Democrats from energy-producing districts are part of the solution to climate change caused by human activity.
05.11.2007	Washington, DC - Rep Gene Green (D-Texas) called on all Texans to join in celebrating Jewish American Heritage Month, which began on May 1. This month is a special opportunity to pay tribute to the contributions Jewish Texans have made throughout the history of the state, Green said. When the first Jewish settlers began practicing their religion in Texas in 1821, they sought a place of promise where they could practice their faith in freedom and live in liberty, Green also said. The states first Jewish cemetery was established in 1852 in Galveston, and another was begun in Houston just two years later. The first chartered Jewish organization, Congregation Beth Israel, was established in Houston in 1859. Beginning in the 1870s, Jews in Texas began establishing various benevolent associations such as International Order of B'nai B'rith. They also organized Sunday schools, literary societies and other cultural groups. Texas and the United States are better and stronger because of the Jewish people who chose to become citizens here, Green said. Their commitment to excellence in science, public service, law, medicine, athletics, literature and countless other fields has enriched our nation and enhanced our culture. ###
05.09.2007	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) introduced a bill today designed to improve the quality of life of millions of seniors who benefit from Medicare. Medicare is a wonderful program, but it has some gaps, Green said. What were doing with this bill is bridging the gap between what Medicare was intended to do for seniors and what it has done in the real world. The Geriatric Assessment and Chronic Care Coordination Act of 2007, co-sponsored by Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.), would authorize Medicare coverage of two services that many seniors currently lack. The first is a geriatric assessment, which is a comprehensive evaluation of an individuals condition and a plan to keep the person healthy. The second service the bill authorizes is coordination of medical care for individuals who have multiple chronic conditions, including dementia. Dr. Todd Semla, president of the American Geriatrics Society, said people with serious health problems often see several doctors who dont necessarily work together and may occasionally prescribe incompatible or redundant treatments. About 20 percent of Medicare beneficiaries have five or more chronic conditions, and these individuals account for almost 70 percent of all Medicare spending, Semla said. We have to find better ways, like chronic care coordination, to treat this population. Greens bill, companion to identical legislation introduced by Sen. Blance Lincoln (D-Ark.), is an effort to integrate the delivery of health services within Medicare. Under the chronic care coordination provision of the bill, an individual could choose a health care professional to be a care manager. The care manager would be responsible for understanding virtually every aspect of the individuals health needs and make sure the individual had enough information to make informed health care decisions. These services are often overlooked by doctors who are not paid to provide them, although a few programs and providers do provide similar services. The benefit covers only individuals who are not receiving comparable services through another Medicare-eligible program or provider. Green said he is especially concerned about geriatric health because the number of seniors in the United States is dramatically increasing as the baby boomer generation ages. If we dont pay for health care coordination through Medicare, seniors will still get treatment but it wont be as good as it should, he said, adding that the bill would more than pay for itself because health care coordination reduces hospital visits and duplicative procedures and so increases savings to Medicare. Semla said the bill was an important step toward the goal of integrating care coordination with Medicare and also stressed the potential health care savings. This legislation will properly align the financial incentives within the Medicare system to encourage the coordination of care in older patients, he said. It will bring down the costs of providing care to this rising population, while increasing the quality of health care provided. Vice Chair of the House Energy and Commerce Committees Health Subcommittee, Green has consistently fought to boost the Medicare system, which millions of Americas seniors rely on for their health care. The Geriatric Assessment and Chronic Care Coordination Act has been endorsed by the American College of Physicians, the American Academy of Family Practitioners, the Alzheimers Association, the American Geriatric Society and the National Association of Social Workers.
05.04.2007	Washington, DC - A bill designed to dramatically improve medical response to traumatic injuries in rural and urban areas became law when President Bush signed the bill on May 3, 2007. This law sends scarce health care dollars to the places that need it most Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas), who sponsored the bill, said. Were going to make sure trauma systems are strengthened, communicating and coordinated. Green said that trauma and emergency medical care are vital to response efforts in the face of natural disasters, terrorist threats and chemical spills in addition to the everyday accidents that clog hospitals around the country. The Houston area, which Green represents, is home to the Ben Taub and Memorial Hermann Level 1 Trauma Centers, which are increasingly forced to turn away seriously injured people due to emergency room overcrowding. According to the Institute of Medicine, 20,000 to 25,000 trauma deaths each year could be prevented by quicker access to trauma care. The bill is a reauthorization of the Trauma Care Systems Planning and Development Act, which first became law in 1990. In addition to extending authorization through 2012, Greens bill reauthorizes the Residency Training Program in Emergency Medicine, which provides for a greater number of emergency room doctors. The Trauma Care Act works by providing federal grants to the states, localities and schools of medicine which then plan, develop and implement trauma care systems. The Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Science (IOM) urged the reauthorization, citing an increase in the number of trauma systems around the country after initial implementation of the Act. According to data from a 1999 IOM study, preventable trauma fatalities in San Diego County, California fell from 13.6 per cent to 2.7 per cent after establishment of a regional trauma system. The new version of the Act also creates a separate competitive grant program for states that have already begun the process of establishing a trauma care system using national standards and protocols. It decreases the states required contribution to the program in order to encourage sustainability and requires a self-evaluation program to identify strengths and weaknesses. The legislation authorizes $12 million for fiscal year 2008, $10 million for fiscal year 2009 and $8 million annually for fiscal years 2010-2012. A senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Green serves as Vice Chairman of the Health Subcommittee. His district incorporates parts of Houston and its metro area, including Aldine, Northside and the East End, Baytown, Channelview, South Houston, Pasadena, Galena Park, and Jacinto City.
04.22.2007	Washington, DC - Time is running out to submit artwork for Congresss annual high school art competition An Artistic Discovery. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) will accept entries until April 30. The winner from each congressional district and his or her parents or guardians will receive airfare to Washington, D.C. and hotel accommodations to attend an awards program. The winning art will also be conspicuously displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for one year. Im continually impressed by the talent Ive seen in our high school students, Green said. I can hardly believe those pieces are created by teenagers. The competition is limited to high school students, but exceptions will be made for schools that have the 7th through 12th grades in one building. Art will be accepted from the following categories: Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers Collage: must be two-dimensional Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints Mixed media: use of more than one medium, such as pencil and ink Computer-generated art Photography The artwork must be two-dimensional, no larger than 30 inches by 30 inches to the outside dimensions of the frame, and no more than four inches in depth. Each entry must be original in concept, design and execution and may not violate any copyright laws. Each student and his or her teacher must sign the release form to certify originality of the piece. The Architect of the Capitol will make a final decision regarding suitability of the art for exhibition in the Capitol. Students or teachers from the 29th Congressional District should drop their work off at one of Greens three area offices. Locations are: 256 N. Sam Houston Parkway East, Suite 29 in Houston; 11811 I-10 East, Suite 430 in Houston; and 10 N. Gaillard in Baytown. For more information or directions, call Armando Walle at (281) 999-5879. Both public and private school students are welcome to enter the contest. Schools within the 29th District include: Aldine ISD Aldine High School MacArthur High School Houston ISD Austin High School Chavez High School Furr High School Milby High School Sam Houston High School Sheldon ISD C.E. King High School Channelview ISD Channelview High School Galena Park ISD Galena Park High School North Shore High School Pasadena ISD Pasadena High School Sam Rayburn High School South Houston High School Goose Creek ISD Robert E. Lee High School Raul Izaguirre School for Success at Tejano Center for Community Concerns Eastwood Academy AAMA George I. Sanchez Charter School YES North Charter School ALTA Academy
04.18.2007	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) asked the House of Representatives to recognize Juan Seguns accomplishments and bravery today when he introduced a resolution in honor of the unsung Texas founding father. Juan Segun was a great patriot, and hes not as well known as he should be, Green said. He fought for Texas alongside Sam Houston, but youll rarely Seguns name alongside his in the history books. House Resolution 315 catalogs Seguns most notable accomplishments, which culminated with the Battle of San Jacinto, where Segun served as an officer under General Sam Houston in the decisive battle for Texas independence. This bills timing coincides with the 171st anniversary of the Battle and the 100th anniversary of the San Jacinto Battlegrounds designation as a state park. Green will speak at a ceremony at the Battleground on April 21 to recognize the anniversaries. Segun was a native of Mexico, interested in politics from an early age. He opposed Mexican leader and sometime-President Antonio Lpez de Santa Anna, and joined the Texas Revolution. He fought at the Alamo and escaped death only because he had left on an urgent mission for reinforcements before the fort fell. Later, Segun saved San Antonio when he questioned General Felix Hustons order to burn it to the ground. Texas President Sam Houston, Seguns longtime friend, countermanded Hustons order and the city was saved. When the Revolution ended, Segun embarked on a career of public service. He was, at various times, a senator for the Republic of Texas and first Tejano member of the Congress of Texas, mayor of San Antonio, and a judge in Wilson County. As senator, Segun helped pass a bill to support widows and orphans of those killed at the Alamo. In 1853 the city of Walnut Springs, Texas changed its name to Seguin in his honor. This is not the first time Green has introduced legislation to celebrate Seguins legacy. Since 2003 the Houston-area congressman has repeatedly sponsored a bill urging the United States Postal Service to issue a stamp commemorating Segun. So far the bill has not come to a vote, but this years version, House Resolution 20, is currently being considered by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. For more information on Juan Seguns life and legacy, visit: https://www.seguinfamilyhistory.com/ and https://www.seguindescendantshp.com/.
04.18.2007	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) and former astronaut Dr. Franklin Chang-Daz will tour several Houston-area schools on April 27 to speak with students about the importance of math, science and graduating from high school. Dr. Chang is a shining example of where an education and a love of math and science can take you, Green said. Sometimes the road to success seems too long and too hard, but he can show the kids how its done. Also, as an immigrant and the first Hispanic in space, his story has a special resonance with many of the students in my district. Chang‑Diaz was born in Costa Rica but finished his high school education in the United States. He studied mechanical engineering in college and earned an Sc.D. in nuclear engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1977. He was soon recruited by NASA and became an astronaut in 1981. He became the first Hispanic in space in 1986 and eventually flew on seven Space Shuttle missions for a total of over 1,600 hours in space. He also performed several spacewalks for a total of nearly 20 hours. What: Rep. Gene Green and astronaut Dr. Franklin Chang-Daz tour schools Where/when: Friday, April 27 9:00 a.m. Baytown Junior High School 7707 Bayway Drive Houston, Texas 77520 10:45 a.m. Galena Park Middle School 400 Keene Street Galena Park, Texas 77547 1:45 p.m. Thomas A. Edison Middle School 6901 Avenue I Houston, Texas 77011
04.17.2007	Washington, DC - Blood collected from a drive hosted by Houston-area Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) on April 28 will support American troops around the world, including those fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. Giving blood is one of the most direct ways you can support a soldier, U.S. Army Sgt. Tiffany Anderson of the Armed Services Blood Program said. Its the biggest thing you can do in support, and one donation can help multiple people. The United States military has raised blood collection quotas in response to increasing need, due in part to casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan. Green said he will be among those giving blood. Supporting our troops is an easy decision because almost everyone knows someone in their neighborhood who is serving our country, he said. No matter how you feel about the way the wars have been managed, this blood drive is personal. The drive will be accompanied by a public forum for veterans, who will be invited to express their opinions and ask questions about legislation, veterans services, and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Federal veterans officials will be available to answer questions about health care, retirement and disability pensions, education, survivor benefits and medals. Veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan might find this forum especially useful because a lot of the information will be new to them, Green said. Of course, my office is dedicated to helping veterans from every generation solve their government-related issues. The entire donation process from sign-in to refreshments will take about 35 minutes. Blood donors must be at least 18 years old and have an identification card that shows their birth date, but there is no upper age limit. Active-duty members of the military may donate if they are at least 17 and have their military identification. For your safety, you will not be allowed to give blood if you have donated whole blood within 56 days or platelets within 72 hours. What: Veterans forum and blood drive Where: Denver Harbor Multi-Service Center 6402 Market Street Houston, Texas 77020 When: 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Saturday, April 28
03.28.2007	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas) and Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas) have called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to clean up a long-forgotten industrial waste site that has poisoned the San Jacinto River for decades. The contaminated area of the river east of Houston, which serves as a food source and recreation area, sends dioxin-laced sediment all the way to Galveston Bay. This mess is threatening the health of Texans and its not going to go away by itself, Green said. If we dont take responsibility for cleaning it now, the problem will only get worse. Green and Poe both represent areas affected by the contamination. The San Jacinto River area has long been a recreational site for families in eastern Harris County, said Poe. The pollution caused by the waste site threatens the quality of life and the health of the folks that live along the river and we can not continue to ignore the seriousness of this situation. In a letter dated March 23, they asked the EPA to designate the zone a Superfund site for the health and safety of our constituents. The Superfund program was enacted to allow the EPA to require responsible parties to clean up contaminated sites. If the parties cannot be located or are unable to clean the sites, the EPA may use money from the Superfund Trust Fund to clean up the contaminated areas. Dioxin levels in the San Jacinto River had been mysteriously high for years in spite of measures designed to reduce pollution from nearby industry. In 2005, scientists discovered that an industrial waste pit operated in the area until about thirty years ago. Over time, the pit became submerged in the river, and the company that operated the pit went out of business. Dioxin is an organic compound that can cause cancer and other health problems. Children and pregnant women are especially vulnerable to its effects. ###
03.27.2007	Washington, DC - The House of Representatives passed a bill Tuesday designed to dramatically improve medical response to traumatic injuries. We want to get help to injured people within that golden hour, Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas), who sponsored the bill, said. Doctors refer to the first hour after a traumatic injury occurs as a golden hour, when treatment is most effective in saving lives. Green said that trauma and emergency medical care are vital to response efforts in the face of natural disasters, terrorist threats and chemical spills in addition to the everyday accidents that clog hospitals around the country. This issue first came to my attention a few years ago, Green said. On Halloween a young man was hit by a car. He had serious injuries to his head, chest and legs, but Houstons trauma facilities were completely full. He was transported to Austin for care, but died the next day. He didnt get the help he needed in that golden hour. The Houston area, which Green represents, is home to the Ben Taub and Memorial Hermann Level 1 Trauma Centers, which are increasingly forced to turn away seriously injured people due to emergency room overcrowding. According to the Institute of Medicine, 20,000 to 25,000 trauma deaths each year can be prevented by quicker access to trauma care. Green began work on the Trauma Care Systems Planning and Development Act (H.R. 727), in 2003. The bill reauthorizes federal trauma care programs under the Public Health Service Act and helps states improve their trauma systems. It also streamlines the way the Health Resources and Services Administration manages trauma care and emergency medical services. It aims to enhance communication and coordination between the state and federal levels. Federal grants to the states would be contingent upon development of a plan to upgrade state trauma care systems. It also includes provisions for improving trauma care in rural areas, where response time is often much slower than in cities where emergency facilities are nearby. A senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Green serves as Vice Chairman of the Health Subcommittee. His district incorporates parts of Houston and its metro area, including Aldine, Northside and the East End, Baytown, Channelview, South Houston, Pasadena, Galena Park, and Jacinto City. ###
03.22.2007	Washington, DC - Family members of former President Lyndon Baines Johnson and a bipartisan group of Texas lawmakers will witness the signing of a bill naming a federal building after the native Texan Friday in the Oval Office. The building serves as the headquarters of the Department of Education. Lyndon and Lady Bird Johnsons first priority in life was education, Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) said. He was the first education president, so the Department of Education building is a perfect fit. The bill, introduced in the House by Green and in the Senate by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), designates the currently nameless building at 400 Maryland Ave. SW in Washington, D.C. as the Lyndon Baines Johnson Federal Building. It will be the first federal building in the capital area to bear his name. Family members in attendance will include Johnsons daughters Lynda Byrd Johnson Robb and Luci Baines Johnson Turpin, and their respective husbands former Senator Chuck Robb and Ian Johnstone Turpin. Members of Congress from Texas in attendance will include Rep. Joe Barton, Rep. Gene Green, Rep. Mike McCaul and Rep. Solomon Ortiz. ###
02.07.2007	HOUSTON, TX-Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), on Monday, February 5, 2007 held his Paying for College Workshop, in conjunction with the Sallie Mae Fund at South Houston High School. Two five-hundred dollar scholarships were awarded to, Donna Anderson and Natalie McKenzie. Both students are juniors at Pasadena High School from the 29th District. The workshop, which is held in conjunction with the Sallie Mae Fund, has been serving students in the 29th Congressional District for the last five years. Twice a year, Sallie Mae Fund representatives join Congressman Gene Green and give a tutorial that shows parents and student how they can access money for college through Federal loans, grants and scholarships. This event is held at different high schools throughout the 29th district. Congressman Green has held the workshop at North Shore High School, Aldine, Milby, Cesar Chavez, Furr, Sam Houston, Austin, Galena Park, MacArthur and this year at South Houston High School. ###
01.29.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) joined members of the vision community and congressional supporters at a press conference on the introduction of the Vision Care for Kids Act of 2007 (HR 507). The bill represents a compromise among the vision community on how to best utilize federal health care dollars to ensure that Americas children receive timely follow-up eye exams for potential vision disorders identified through vision screenings. There is no question that too many of Americas children are going without much-needed vision care, said Congressman Gene Green, chief sponsor of HR 507 and co-chairman of the Congressional Vision Caucus. While many states require vision screenings for school-age children, there is little effort at the state level to ensure that at-risk children receive the comprehensive eye exams and any necessary follow-up treatment to prevent life-long vision impairment. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, approximately two-thirds of children fail to receive preventive vision care before beginning elementary school. While thirty states have mandated vision screenings for children, nearly 80 percent of children who fail these screenings do not get the comprehensive eye exams or follow-up care they need. A screening mandate doesnt amount to much if the child doesnt receive necessary follow-up care, continued Congressman Green. With the lack of health insurance a major barrier to follow-up care, we introduced this legislation to give states the resources to provide proper follow-up eye exams and treatment for uninsured children who are at high-risk for vision disorders. Congressman Gene Green was joined today by the American Academy of Ophthalmology, the American Optometric Association, the Vision Council of America and Prevent Blindness America, leading members of the vision community that have endorsed the Vision Care for Kids Act. ###
01.24.2007	Washington, D.C.-Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) today, along with other Members of the Texas Delegation, sent the following letter to Governor Rick Perry urging the Governor to terminate all State contracts with private lobbying firms. The letter comes after news that while the Office of State Federal Relations terminated their contracts with lobbyists, the Texas Department of Transportation, which has offices in D.C., has maintained and increased its contracts with outside lobbyist. In previous communications with Governor Rick Perry, Congressman Gene Green and the Texas Delegation had called on the Governor to cancel all contracts with private DC lobbying firms. While the Delegation does not object to state agencies hiring outside experts to work with federal executive branch agencies, state funds should not be spent to lobby Congress. The State of Texas has 32 Representatives and 2 senators to represent Texas. The hiring of private lobby firms is a waste of taxpayer money. January 24, 2007 The Honorable Rick PerryGovernorState of TexasPO Box 12428Austin, Texas 78711-2428 Dear Governor Perry: Thank you for coming to Washington, D.C. last Friday for a frank discussion of views regarding Texas federal legislative priorities and a wide variety of state issues as well. We hope to build off that first meeting for a more productive working relationship in the future. Prior to the meeting, the Office of State Federal Relations notified our office that they had exercised their option to cancel their contracts with outside lobbyists hired to lobby Congress. As we have repeatedly expressed, the Constitution assigns Texas 32 U.S. House Members and 2 Senators and the State maintains D.C. offices with state employees to handle Texas federal legislative priorities. In our most recent letter, the entire delegation wrote: [w]e urge you to terminate any contracts the State of Texas maintains with any outside lobbyists involved with the U.S. House of Representatives and do not replace them with other lobbyists. Accordingly, we were surprised to learn that the Texas Department of Transportation, which maintains a separate D.C. office from OSFR, also has had outside lobbyists under a separate contract to lobby Congress for the past two years, and instead of canceling these contracts has recently expanded them. To our knowledge, these lobbyists never worked with any Democratic Member of the delegation over the past two years. Please inform us if there are any other federal Congressional lobbyists receiving state taxpayer funds through other state agencies. Unfortunately, we must repeat that we are opposed to all outside lobbyist contracts with the State of Texas to lobby Congress. Hiring specialized outside contracts to deal with federal agencies like the U.S. Department of Transportation may be justified, but hiring Congressional lobbyists to lobby for Texas is an unnecessary waste of taxpayer money when Texas already has state employees in Washington and 34 Members of Congress. Thank you for your consideration of our views and we look forward to working with you on Texas federal priorities in the 110th Congress. The letter was signed by the following members: Rep. Gene GreenRep. Solomon OrtizRep Lloyd Doggett, Rep Nick Lampson, Rep Ruben Hinojosa, Rep Sheila Jackson-Lee, Rep Ciro Rodriguez, Rep Al Green ###
01.23.2007	HOUSTON, TX-Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), on Monday, February 5, 2007 will hold his Paying for College Workshop, in conjunction with the Sallie Mae Fund at South Houston High School. This will be our 11th time to hold this event. We hold two workshops per year, said Congressman Gene Green. Each time it has gotten bigger and better which lets us know that we are getting the word out and that we are definitely making a difference in the lives of students in our community. This event is held at different high schools in our district. We have held our workshop at North Shore High School, Aldine, Milby, Cesar Chavez, Furr, Sam Houston, Austin, Galena Park, MacArthur and this year at South Houston High School. The workshop, which is held in conjunction with the Sallie Mae Fund, has been serving students in the 29th Congressional District for the last five years. Twice a year, Sallie Mae Fund representatives join Congressman Gene Green and give a tutorial that shows parents and student how they can access money for college through Federal loans, grants and scholarships. Two five-hundred dollar scholarships will be awarded to students from the 29th District at the workshop. Students must be present to win. WHO: CONGRESSMAN GENE GREEN & SALLIE MAE FUND WHAT: PAYING FOR COLLEGE WORKSHOP WHEN: MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2007 @ 7:00PM WHERE: SOUTH HOUSTON HIGH SCHOOL 3820 SOUTH SHAVER SOUTH HOUSTON, TX ###
01.19.2007	Washington, DC- Late Thursday, Congressman Green (D-Texas) received news from the Texas State-Federal Relations office stating that the State of Texas was canceling their contracts with two Washington based lobbying firms. Congressman Green was instrumental in spearheading Congressional efforts to end the $1.3 million contracts that were paid using state taxpayer money. Congressman Green gave the following statement in regard to the State of Texas cancellation of its private lobbying contracts. This is great news for the State of Texas, said Congressman Gene Green. I dont know if Governor Perry felt the heat or saw the light, but this decision is truly a victory for the citizens of Texas since they were the ones paying for these wasteful contracts. It took a while but our efforts worked, continued Congressman Green. Taxpayers already pay Texas elected officials to represent them; and the State of Texas has too many other pressing needs such as education, health care, and public safety to give any more taxpayer money away to Washington lobbyists. The news of the contract cancellation was a welcomed relief; it looks like it truly will be a new year. ###
01.17.2007	Washington, DC-Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) introduced bipartisan legislation to name the Department of Education headquarters building in Washington, D.C. the Lyndon Baines Johnson Federal Building. Congressman Gene Green was joined by lead co-sponsors House Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Joe Barton (R-Ennis), Senior Texas Democratic Congressman Solomon Ortiz (D-Corpus Christi) and Congressman Mike McCaul (R- Austin). President Johnson was the first President from Texas and was elected with the highest popular vote margin in history in 1964, said Congressman Gene Green. President Johnsons Administration placed a high national priority on education. There is no more fitting honor for President Johnson, than naming the Department of Education Headquarters building after him. "President Johnson enacted the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 as part of his War on Poverty. This was the first comprehensive education law that provided funds focused on elementary and secondary schools. Soon after, Johnson enacted the Higher Education Act of 1965. This began the federal student aid program and helped millions of hardworking Americans who lacked the means for higher education to attend college" "Head Start may be the single most important education program created under Johnson's administration. Head Start recognizes the need to invest in educating pre-school aged children that came from disadvantaged families. Since 1965, Head Start has been instrumental in giving generations of pre-school children in our country the foundation they need to succeed in school." LBJ passed away over thirty years ago, but to this day has no federal buildings bearing his name in the Capitol area. Both, Presidents Reagan and Bush have been honored with the International Trade Centers and the Central Intelligence Agency buildings, reflecting their priorities and contributions, continued Congressman Green. Lyndon and Lady Bird Johnsons first priority in life was education, and he was the first Education President, so the Department of Education building is a perfect fit. The building, located at 400 Maryland Ave. SW does not have a name. President Johnson went on to sign into law over sixty education bills, including the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, which established the Head Start program, the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, and the Higher Education Act of 1965, said Congressman Gene Green Many of these education priorities are today accepted by both political parties, as they were then. The Higher Education Act passed 368 to 22 in the House and 79 to 3 in the Senatea strong bipartisan vote. President Johnson and his wife Lady Bird deserve to be honored for his life long commitment to public service. Cosponsors of the LBJ Department of Education naming bill: 1. Barton, Joe, Texas, 6th 2. Brady, Kevin, Texas, 8th 3. Conaway, K. Michael, Texas, 11th 4. Cuellar, Henry, Texas, 28th 5. Doggett, Lloyd, Texas, 25th 6. Edwards, Chet, Texas, 17th 7. Gonzalez, Charlie A., Texas, 20th 8. Green, Al, Texas, 9th 9. Green, Gene, Texas, 29th 10. Hinojosa, Rubn, Texas, 15th 11. Jackson Lee, Sheila, Texas, 18th 12. Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Texas 30th 13. Marchant, Kenny, Texas, 24th 14. McCaul, Michael T., Texas, 10th 15. Ortiz, Solomon P., Texas, 27th 16. Poe, Ted, Texas, 2nd 17. Reyes, Silvestre, Texas, 16th 18. Oberstar, James, Minnesota, 8th *Original Cosponsor list as of introduction ###
01.11.2007	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will host his first series of Town Hall meetings of the year. Congressman Green will hold two Town Hall meetings per day beginning January 20th and the second round on January 27th. Residents of the 29th Congressional District are encouraged to attend in order to express their views and concerns. Congressman Gene Green will also discuss a myriad of issues, including those that are of concern to constituents from the District. More Town Hall meetings will be held in April. We always get a great response to our Town Hall meetings, said Rep. Gene Green. It allows me the opportunity to visit with members of our community. Im able to discuss issues that concern them as well as discuss issues that Im working on in Washington. WHAT: CONGRESSMAN GENE GREEN TOWN HALL MEETING WHEN: Saturday, January 20, 2007 @ 9:00 AM and 11:00AM And Saturday, January 27, 2007 @ 9:00 AM and 11:00AM WHERE: on Saturday, January 20, 2007 @ 9:00 AM Houston Community College-Northeast 555 Community College Drive Codwell Hall, Room 219 on Saturday, January 20, 2007 @ 11:00 AM San Jacinto College-North Campus 5800 Uvalde Monument Room, Slovacek Student Center Second Floor AND on Saturday, January 27, 2007 @ 9:00 AM Houston Community College-Southeast 6815 Rustic Avenue Lecture Hall, Angela Morales Bldg. Room 1005 on Saturday, January 27, 2997 @ 11:00 AM Houston Community College-Northline 401 Northline Mall Lecture Hall ###
01.05.2007	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) in a speech given on the floor of the House of Representatives today, called for the implementation of an Independent Investigative Office to act as a non-partisan investigative arm when an ethical issue comes before the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, also known as the Ethics Committee. The following statement is an excerpt from Congressman Green who has served on the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct for the last six years: I have seen more investigations than I care to in the last 6 years of Members on both sides of the aisle. The rule changes should restore a tone of civility and honesty in this chamber and that is why I am supporting this package and urge all my colleagues to do the same. However, I would like to raise an issue that is not contained in this package today. I strongly believe that the House Ethics Committee needs an independent investigative office. Currently, my colleagues on the Ethics Committee and I are tasked with determining whether rumors and innuendos have any merit to launch investigations that at times bring disgrace to this body and end the careers of our colleagues. We are the Court of Congress, yet we serve as both the investigators and the judges of our colleagues. This is no easy task. Those of us on this Committee have accepted this position and stand poised to enforce the Rules of the House and preserve the integrity of this body. However, it would be beneficial to the Members of the Ethics Committee and this House if we had an independent investigative arm so we may have unbiased, thorough information regarding any accusation of impropriety by a Member of this body. I believe this would help remove any partisan sentiments regarding origination of investigations and may help restore Americas faith in our ability to enforce our rules. With this information the Members of Congress would then determine whether or not there is sufficient information to further the investigation, or take action on the issue before the Committee. Allowing an independent investigative office to begin the investigation and then bring their findings to the Ethics Committee would not make our job easier, but it would help us have this non-partisan information, which would help us to our job better. I strongly support the changes proposed today, but I believe it is necessary for us to begin a dialogue on creating an Independent Investigative Office to serve the House Ethics Committee. ###
12.07.2006	Washington, D.C.-Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas) and other members of Congress from Texas, today sent a letter to Leslie V. Norwalk, with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) stating his sincere disappointment of CMSs regulation that ends a long standing policy of providing automatic Medicaid coverage to newborn babies born to mothers on Medicaid. CMS, without any change in the law, has instructed states to stop providing automatic coverage to babies born in the U.S. to undocumented immigrants. CMS has declared that the baby cannot be covered by Medicaid until citizenship documentation is filed, even though these children are born in U.S. hospitals. This process can take weeks to months depending on the state the baby is born in. Im very disappointed with CMS, said Congressman Gene Green. Unfortunately CMS has adopted the tone this Administration has set on immigration and has gravely misinterpreted Congressional intent in setting these regulations. These regulations are down right discriminatory, and have been put in place simply to deny much needed healthcare to the citizen children of our immigrant population. Currently, federal Medicaid law under Sec. 1902 (e)(4) requires states to provide one year of automatic Medicaid eligibility to babies whose mothers are sufficiently poor that the babys birth was covered by Medicaid. Additionally, in recognition of the rights granted to infants born in this county by the 14th Amendment of the Constitution, the statute does not distinguish among infants born to citizens, legal immigrants or undocumented immigrants. We have the 14th Amendment, which states that all persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside, continued Congressman Green. This Administration and its party have embarked on a trail of hate towards immigrants, a route that can quickly lead us into the realm of denying citizenship to American born babies-a path we desperately need to avoid. ###
12.06.2006	Washington, D.C.-Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), today, joined Senator Trent Lott (R-MS) and Congressman Cliff Stearns (R-FL) in a press conference denouncing Title Washing, the act of selling a car with troubled history to unsuspecting customers. Sen. Lott and Congressman Stearns have introduced legislation S 3707 and HR 6093 which would help combat the following problem. Congressman Gene Green is an original co sponsor to this bill. I co-sponsored this bill with Congressman Stearns because in our district in Houston, Texas we have a long history of title washing problems, said Congressman Gene Green. In 2001, Tropical Storm Allison flooded a large portion of the city and thousands of vehicles were flooded and totaled. We found there were rings of people who would take these cars, clean them up and sell them. Roughly 5 million vehicles were totaled last year due to severe damage, flooding or theft, including 580,000 from the Gulf Hurricanes alone. Thousands of these vehicles are cleaned up and resold with no history of the cars troubled past to unsuspecting customers a problem called title washing. This problem persists because state motor vehicle titling laws are confusing and incomplete, and no central database exists to red flag all of the problem vehicles. The fact is that car titling policies differ from state to state, continued Congressman Green. Texas has a strong Lemon Law that requires sellers to disclose whether or not a car has been damaged in any way. This is effective on the state level, but it does not address the interstate commerce issue. We need to have a set of standards that will enable a person in Florida to tell if a car was flooded in Texas and vice versa. I believe its time we made this important information available to consumers and authorities so consumers can be safe on the road. ###
11.14.2006	Washington, D.C.-Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), today, sent out the following letter to Governor Rick Perry, signed by the Democratic Members of the Texas delegation, asking the Governor to stop payment of tax payers money to private lobbying firms. The following letter to Governor Perry is the third letter written in the past year that discusses the wasteful contracts with outside lobbyist worth $1 million in state taxpayer money. The letter was signed by the following members: Rep. Gene Green Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson Rep. Charles Gonzalez Rep. Al Green Rep. Henry Cuellar Rep. Chet EdwardsRep. Solomon Ortiz Rep. Ruben Hinojosa Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee Rep. Silvestre Reyes Rep. Lloyd Doggett Rep.-Elect Nick Lampson November 14, 2006 The Honorable Rick PerryGovernorState of TexasPO Box 12428Austin, Texas 78711-2428 Dear Governor Perry: On Tuesday November 7, 2006, the American people moved this nation in a new direction in the U.S. Congress and entrusted the Democratic Party with a majority in the U.S. House of Representatives. Despite our ideological differences, we look forward to working with you and our Republican colleagues in the Texas delegation on any issues of importance to our great State of Texas. As proud Texans, we aim to restore the long tradition of bipartisan cooperation in Texas government at both the state and federal levels. Please do not hesitate to contact us for assistance on any federal issue or direct any office or agency of the State of Texas to do the same. The Democratic Members of the Texas delegation contacted you on both January 20, 2006 and March 29, 2006 regarding wasteful contracts with outside lobbyists worth $1 million in state taxpayer money. Instead of reconsidering this inexplicable and unprecedented decision, you gave away Texans taxpayer money to lobbyists and claimed that they do the work that the U.S. Constitution assigns to the Texas Congressional delegation. Adding insult to injury for Texas taxpayers, these outside lobbyists never once contacted any Democratic Member of the Texas delegation about any of Texas legislative priorities. You never responded to our requests to save this money for more pressing state issues. While we do not speak for our Texas Senators or for our Republican colleagues in the House, Texas House Democrats do not need - nor want - any assistance from private lobbyists to represent the State of Texas. We again urge you to terminate any contracts the State of Texas maintains with any outside lobbyists involved with the U.S. House of Representatives and do not replace them with any other lobbyists. Taxpayers already pay Texas elected officials to represent them; and the State of Texas has too many other pressing needs such as education, health care, and public safety to give any more taxpayer money away to Washington lobbyists. Thank you for your consideration and please respond to this important request. ###
11.09.2006	Washington, D.C.-Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) today was selected for the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee as a representative from the Texas Region. The selection came from the Texas Delegation. I intend to build on my past experience on the Steering and Policy Committee and the relationships forged in my seven terms in Congress, said Congressman Gene Green. The Texas delegations Democratic Members have a distinguished history of leadership in the U.S. House of Representatives, and I will do everything in my power to continue that tradition by promoting Texans for key House Committee assignments. Congressman Gene Green was recently elected to an eighth term as the Representative from Texas 29th District. He is also a member of the House Energy & Commerce Committee as well as on the following subcommittees: Health; Environment and Hazardous Materials; Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection; and Energy and Air Quality. Green also serves on the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct Ethics and as a Senior Deputy Whip. The Democratic Steering and Policy Committee is in charge of appointing Democratic Members of Congress to House Committee seats and advising the Democratic leadership on policy. ###
11.06.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) in conjunction with the WorkSource hosted the 4th Annual North Channel Job Fair on November 6 from 10:00 a.m. -2:00 p.m. at San Jacinto College-North located at 5800 Uvalde, Houston, Texas, in the Slovacek Student Center-Monument Room. This years event provided an opportunity for employing agencies to interview and recruit candidates in person and to promote their current job openings. Also, job seekers were offered assistance with interviewing skills and information that is needed to create a standard resume as well as receive helpful tips to revise their current resume. At 10:30 am Congressman Green gave brief remarks as well as representatives of the different organizations co-hosting the event. The other speakers include San Jacinto College President Dr. Charles Grant and Worksource representative. Other organizations that were acknowledged were Northeast Houston Advisory Council, Partners In Power, Inc. and the Houston Police Department. Employers and exhibitors participating included: Bretthauer-Ramirez, CMC Railroad, Inc., Cornell Companies-Reid Facility, Driving Momentum Inc., Employer Flexible Resources, Grant Prideco, Gulf coast Community Services Association, Harris County HR/Risk Management, Harris County sheriffs Office, Houston Fire Department, Houston Police Department-Recruiting Unit, Insteel Wire Products Company, Jacinto Port International/Seaboard Marine, Jindal Texas Works, Kroger, Lowes, Mary Kay Consultants, Pre-Paid Legal Service, Inc., Prologistixs-Rhinopak, San Jacinto Methodist Hospital, Schneider National, Skillmaster-Ameri-Forge, Sneed Shipbuilding, Inc., Southwest Shipyard, State Farm Insurance, Stevens Transport, The Home Depot Distribution-Baytown, The Home Depot-Northshore, Turbofab, Union Tank Car Company, University of Phoenix, Walmart-East and White Cap Construction. ###
11.03.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) today, November 3, 2006, broke ground for the US-90 highway improvement project together with Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Gary K. Trietsch, the District Engineer for the Houston District of the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT). The much needed improvement project for US-90 will connect the existing gap between Beltway 8 and I-10/610. U.S. 90 is a major east and western thoroughfare freeway for the East Harris County region, but its true regional mobility potential cannot be reached unless the freeway links up directly with the interstate system and central Houston through I-10. By completing this roadway improvement project, the area will be further developed by increasing the mobility potential of the area. Congressman Green and Congressman Poe worked together to secure funding for the improvement project. Congressman Green secured $1 million worth of funding in the FY2005 Transportation Appropriations Act (HR 4818). Both Congressman Green and Poe each secured $1.8 million for the project in the 2005 Highway Bill (HR 3, the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century-A Legacy for Users). The Texas Transportation Commission has awarded a contract to add the New Crosby Freeway to the IH 10-East/IH 610- East Loop interchange, providing motorists with a seamless transfer onto the present freeway system from Houstons newest freeway. Without rebuilding the IH 10 and IH 610 interchanges east of Houston, this long awaited project will insert new US 90 direct connectors into the present interchange. This project builds a six-lane freeway from IH 10-East to Mercury Drive. When completed, motorists will have direct access to the new six-lane US 90-Crosby Freeway. The new Crosby Freeway will provide more direct access to northeast Harris County and the communities between Lake Houston and IH 10-East Freeway, including many of Houstons newest suburbs ###
10.30.2006	Washington, D.C. Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), on Wednesday November 1st, along with Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Woodlands) held a press conference where they discussed new legislation under the Pension Protection Act, which would ensure that retiring firefighters are not penalized for withdrawing from their well earned pension. The event took place at 10:30AM at the HFRRF Building located at 4225 Interwood North Parkway, Houston, Texas. Congressmen Green and Brady presented a copy of the legislation, a red line, to Chairman of the Board of the Houston Firefighters Relief and Retirement Fund (HFRRF) Jimmie Gill. Congressmen Green and Brady teamed up with Houston Firefighters in securing legislation that ends a penalty local fire fighters face at retirement. The fix was included in the Pension Protection Act passed by Congress and signed into law by the President of the United States earlier this year. Congressman Brady and Green presented a framed red-line signed copy of the legislation critical to firefighters at the press conference. Background on Firefighter Pension Problem: Many public safety personnel begin their careers at a young age and after 20 years of service are eligible for retirement at the pinnacle of their careers. In order to keep these experienced public safety personnel on the job for up to 10 years longer, many retirement plans are offering an alternative pension plan option called the Deferred Retirement Option Plans (DROP). Under previous law, eligible public safety personnel would be forced to pay a 10% early withdrawal tax penalty for taking distributions from a DROP plan before age 59 . For example, in Houston the average firefighter begins his career at age 23. After 20 years of service, now age 43, the average firefighter is fully vested in the regular pension fund and can retire and begin receiving benefits immediately. Today, the firefighter can participate in the DROP. If the firefighter participates for the full 10 years and then elects to retire, he or she will be age 53 and, in general, will not be able to take retirement distributions prior to the age of 59 without triggering a 10 percent tax penalty for early withdrawals. The bill sponsored by Congressmen Brady and Green provides relief from the 10% early withdrawal penalty faced by these public safety personnel. ###
10.25.2006	Houston, TX - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), on Wednesday, November 1, 2006 will hold his 9th Paying for College Workshop, in conjunction with the Sallie Mae Fund at MacArthur High School in Houston. This will be our 10th time to hold this event, said Congressman Gene Green. Each time it has gotten bigger and better which lets us know that we are getting the word out and that we are definitely making a difference in the lives of students in our community. Every time we hold this event we pick a different high school in our district. So far we have held our workshop at North Shore High School, Aldine, Milby, Cesar Chavez, Furr, Sam Houston, Austin, Galena Park and MacArthur. The workshop, which is held in conjunction with the Sallie Mae Fund has been serving students in the 29th Congressional District for the last five years. Twice a year, Sallie Mae Fund representatives join Congressman Gene Green and give a tutorial that shows parents and student how they can access money for college through Federal loans, grants and scholarships. The presentation is held in both in English and in Spanish. Two five-hundred dollar scholarships will be awarded to students at the workshop. Students must be present to win. WHO: CONGRESSMAN GENE GREEN & SALLIE MAE FUND WHAT: PAYING FOR COLLEGE WORKSHOP WHEN: WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2006 @ 7:00PM WHERE: MACARTHUR HIGH SCHOOL 4400 ALDINE MAIL ROAD HOUSTON, TX ###
10.17.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas) gave the following statement during the launch of the San Jacinto College-North Campus Empowering Residents of Galena Park program. "Good Morning. Id like to thank President Grant, Dr. Sydnor and all the faculty, staff and students of San Jacinto College North for putting this event together. "Im a big supporter of Higher Education, and Im proud to have San Jacinto College serving this part of our District. "This is a top institution that offers the people of Galena Park and the surrounding area access to higher education without having to drive across town. "One of the unique things about this college is its approach to offering quality programs. They dont just teach you. "They make sure you get the experience you need to be a part of the workforce. Thats why I was proud to be a part of helping the college receive the HUD HSIAC Grant in 2000 that helped create this facility. "Im also proud to know that the college is receiving almost $600,000 in grant funding from the HUD HSIAC program. "This grant award will help the college train 80 people and help them get into the workforce. One of San Jacinto College's strengths is its ability to respond to the needs of small business by providing a variety of educational and training opportunities to our community. "The partnerships San Jacinto College has are second to none. They focus on four areas of your future career to make sure you have what you need to be successful. "Training is the first component. Without Proper training through class room instruction and hands-on meetings with those in the industry you study, your chances of success are not as large. San Jacinto College offers that. "Second, the College partners with small businesses in our community to see what their needs are. This helps the students have a better success rate in finding work after graduation because the college knows what programs are needed in our area. "Third, every business needs leaders and the learning skills in leadership and knowing about all the different aspect of business helps you no matter if you are working in management or if you are working the line. "Many colleges overlook this important component but San Jacinto College makes sure youll know how things operate in the field youre in. "Finally, it is extremely important to do an internship. Again, through their partnerships, the college makes sure every student that wants an internship gets one. "Again, thank you to the faculty and staff at San Jacinto College and thank you for inviting me to speak with you today." ###
09.27.2006	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) congratulated Harris County Public Health and Environmental Services, the City of Houston and the Harris County Hospital District for their successful campaign to raise the bar on child immunization rates in Houston. Recently announced, Harris Countys child immunization rate, which was one of the worst in the country, jumped 15 percentage points in new government statistics. The immunization rate in Houston rose from 61.7 percent in 2004 to 76.6 percent in 2005, bringing Houston up to number 7 from a total list of 26 urban areas, last year it was ranked last. This is great news, said Congressman Gene Green. To see numbers like this in our city is a great accomplishment for Harris County Public Health and Environmental Services. They have been doing an outstanding job. I believe this marks the highest jump in any other city that was surveyed. We need to also recognize the numbers of clinics in the City of Houston who have helped with this initiative and also the Harris County Hospital District. Congressman Gene Green has been a long time proponent of highlighting the importance of awareness and compliance for child immunizations. He has worked to bring attention to child immunization not just nationally but locally. Ive always given great importance to child immunization, said Congressman Gene Green. For the past 11 years weve held an annual Immunization Day, where local members of the medical community come together to educate parents on the importance of immunization as well as administer free shots to the young children in attendance. As a father and grandfather, I want to make sure that all of our children are safe from disease and this preventative measure is a right step in the right direction. ###
09.25.2006	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) announced $11.6 million in Houston-area port security funding in the recent round of Port Security Grant Program (PSPG) funding dedicated to the protection of the Houston Ship Channel and its critical energy and chemical facilities. Our efforts to educate the Department of Homeland Security about the critical infrastructure along the Houston Ship Channel continue to bear fruit, said Congressman Gene Green. Our local governments and business prepared good grant applications and their work is paying off. Congressman Green held a Port Security Grants Workshop at the Port of Houston in January 2005 with the Director of the Port Security Grant Program. The 2005 Port Security Grant Round then brought $35 million to the area, and the Department of Homeland Security now recognizes the Port of Houston as one of three Tier 1 ports in the U.S. On September 11, 2006, Congressman Green led a bipartisan group of six Houston-area Members of Congress in writing to Homeland Security Secretary Chertoff in support of the 2006 Port Security Grant applications from Harris County, Texas and the Port of Houston Authority. According to DHS, Harris County received $9,145,907 in PSGP funding to improve their facility and perimeter security with an electronic intrusion detection system and Harris County will enhance interoperable communications by upgrading its infrastructure. Grant money will also be used to purchase an additional patrol boats for law enforcement in and around the port area. I am pleased that Harris County received 75% of their request, Green said. With the forming of the Port Strategic Security Council to include all stakeholders along the Ship Channel, we have improved our port security grant funding dramatically. In addition, the Port of Houston Authority received $1,754,801 in PSGP funding out of a $2.82 million request to improve their facility and perimeter security through the installation of enhanced security fencing and gates along with additional cameras and access control hardware. Given our energy and chemical facilities, we will need additional resources in the future, but todays grant awards are further step in the right direction, Green added. ###
09.18.2006	Houston, TX -- Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) is hosting his annual Service Academy Day for high school students from the 29th Congressional district on Saturday, September 23, 2006. In an effort to increase awareness of the opportunities provided by attending one of the four United States Service Academies, such as West Point, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy or the Merchant Marine Academy. Students will have an opportunity to meet academy recruiters and discuss the admission process to a service academy. The opportunity to attend one of our world famous service academies is a dream for many young men and women, said Green. I want to make sure that anyone interested in attending one of these great institutions has all the information that they need. Academy Day also serves as an educational forum for students that were unaware of the opportunity and knowledge on how to apply to one of our service academies. I want everyone to have the same opportunity to enter one of these prestigious institutions. As a Member of Congress, I am able to nominate eligible young men and women to one of the four United States Service Academies, added Green. It is important that students begin their application process before their senior year in high school to take advantage of this great opportunity. What: Congressman Gene Green Annual Service Academy Day Who: Congressman Gene Green, Representatives from West Point, The Air Force Academy, the Naval Academy and the Merchant Marines Academy When: Saturday, September 23, 2006 9:00 am to 10:30 am Where: Houston Community College-Southeast Campus Angela. V. Morales Building, Lecture Hall 6815 Rustic @ Gulf Freeway # # #
07.21.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas), on Saturday, August 12, 2006 will host his 11th Annual Immunization Day. The days event, which will be held at three different elementary schools in the 29th Congressional District, will give parents an opportunity to come and speak with Congressman Green about preventive health initiatives. Free immunization will be administered at these meetings, just in time for school. Immunizations are one of the most important disease prevention steps we can take to protect our children, said Congressman Green. I hope that people will take advantage of our Immunization Day. Its a benefit for our children and our community. Every year three elementary schools are selected to host the event. For the last several years three healthcare groups have helped in making Immunization Day a success: The Harris County Public Health and Environmental Services, Humble Clinic; The Almatha Clark Taylor School Based Clinic in Galena Park ISD; and the Rusk School Health Promotions Project Clinic in HISD. Congressman Green will hold a press conference at Crespo Elementary at 10:30AM. WHO: Congressman Gene Green and the Rusk School Health Promotion Project, The Almatha Clark Taylor Clinic, Harris County PublicHealth and Environmental Services and Humble Clinic WHAT: CONGRESSMAN GREENS 11TH ANNUAL IMMUNIZATION DAY WHEN: SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 2006 FROM 9:00AM-1:00PM WHERE: Crespo Elementary School 7500 Office City Dr. Houston ISD *Press Conference to be held @ 10:30AM Northshore Elementary School 14310 Duncannon Dr. Galena Park ISD Black Elementary School 160 Mill Stream Ln. Aldine ISD ###
07.18.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will host a series of town hall meetings and events located in your neighborhood, throughout the month of August. Our past town hall meetings have been great successes, said Congressman Gene Green. Not only does it give me an opportunity to speak with our constituents, it also gives me an opportunity to listen and hear their concerns. Congressman Green will hold his town hall meetings in the following locations: August 3, 2006-Thursday Galena Park City Hall 6:30PM-7:30PM 2000 Clinton Dr. Galena Park, TX 77547 August 5, 2006-Saturday Pasadena Library 9:00AM-10:00AM 1201 Jeff Ginn Memorial Dr. Pasadena, TX 77506 August 5, 2006-Saturday Lee College Tucker Auditorium Hall 11:00AM-12:00PM 200 Lee Drive Baytown, TX 77520 August 8, 2006-Tuesday In conjunction w/ Eastwood/Lawndale/Wayside Super Neighborhood Council 6:30PM-7:30PM Villa de Matel 6510 Lawndale Houston, TX 77023 August 9, 2006-Wednesday Senior Issues Forum 10:00AM-11:00AM South Houston Senior Center 1007 State Street South Houston, TX 77587 August 9, 2006-Wednesday Aldine Branch Library 6:30PM-7:30PM 11331 Airline Dr. Houston, TX 77037 August 15, 2006-Tuesday 7:00PM-8:00PM In Conjunction w/ North Lindale Civic Club Harris County Education Building 6300 Irvington Houston, TX 77022 August 29, 2006-Tuesday In conjunction w/ Reveille Park Place Civic Club 6:30PM-7:30PM Park Place Regional Library 8145 Park Place Houston, TX 77017 ###
06.30.2006	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) joined three other Members of Congress on a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) trip to visit health care facilities for injured soldiers and see American troops in Germany, Iraq and Afghanistan. The Congressman began the first leg in Landstuhl, Germany where they visited the hospital where injured troops are brought from Iraq and Afghanistan. The group did a brief stop in Jordan en route to Iraq to view training of Iraqi security personnel. The group arrived in Balad, Iraq where they toured U.S. base and medical facilities. The group then flew into Bagdad where they met with troops and toured Bagdad ER. The CODEL flew to Afghanistan where they got a chance to visit with troops and received briefings from ground commanders. They were also able to visit medical facilities at Camp Lacey. This was a great trip for members of the health Subcommittee, said Congressman Green. We were able to see first hand the medical treatment for our men and women of the armed forces. The three MASH facilities are outstanding and we were all very impressed with the commitment of the staff. This is not my first time in Iraq, continued Congressman Green. On each trip we visit the military facilities on the bases. We also attend briefings, where we get updated on the war first hand. But, the best part of these trips is getting to visit with the troops. We had lunch with troops from Texas and thats where we really get to know these brave young men and women. Talking to them you see why we have the best military, they are truly exceptional. It was an honor to be with them and it was an honor to spend time with them during the 4th of July. ###
06.27.2006	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) gave the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives in honor of one of his constituents, Staff Sgt. Alberto V. Sanchez, Jr. Staff Sgt. Sanchez passed away from injuries he received from the detonation of an improvised explosive device near the vehicle he was riding in during his tour in Iraq. The following statement was offered. Madam Speaker: I lost a constituent this last week in Iraq. Staff Sergeant Alberto V. Sanchez, Jr., had planned to celebrate his fifth wedding anniversary next month while on leave from Iraq. It takes a piece of my heart, his mother, Olga Sanchez said in Houston through tears. Nothing we can say or do will ever bring him back. Sanchez, 33, a Milby High School graduate, died Saturday from wounds he suffered when animprovised explosive device detonated near his vehicle in Balad, about 50 miles north of Baghdad. Sanchez was assigned to the Armys 1st Battalion, 68th Armor Regiments, 3rd Heavy Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry out of Fort Carson. Alberto Sanchez chose the Army so he could earn money for college tuition, but the military became his career. He chose to be in the Army, and his mother, Olga Sanchez, said he always said, This is just a job. Ive got to do what Ive got to do. His parents, Alberto, Sr., and Olga Sanchez, moved to Houston from Reynosa, Mexico, when their son was an infant. The family is in disbelief, Mrs. Sanchez and the other adult children said. He never felt worried, his mother said. If he felt worried, he never showed it. Like I said, all the pictures we have of him, he always had a big smile. Madam Speaker, I ask for a moment of silence to celebrate this American hero, Alberto Sanchez, Jr. ###
06.20.2006	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) offered an amendment to H.R. 5611, the Fuel Consumption Education Act today during the Energy and Commerce Committee mark-up, to create a public-private partnership between the gasoline industry, states and local governments to find solutions on how to better supply fuel for emergency evacuations. The amendment was adopted by the Energy and Commerce Committee. The partnership described by Congressman Green would have an advisory board with representatives from DOE, the refining industry, the gasoline marketing industry, state government, and local government. This would establish lines of communication to better serve the population during a national emergency, said Congressman Gene Green. By coming up with the best practices for supplying fuel during emergency evacuations, they would be better able to educate refiners, marketers, and state and local officials around the nation on how to do it. The amendment by Congressman Gene Green was introduced due to the inadequate fuel supplies during last years Hurricane Rita evacuation in Houston. "Hurricane Rita caused millions of people to evacuate in the Southeast Texas region and the Houston area. People ran out of gas on Interstate-45 and other highways during the 98 degree Texas heat, and we lost several people to heart attacks as a result, continued Congressman Gene Green. Evacuation planners and the gasoline refining and marketing industries were doing everything they could at the time, but clearly we need to do better next time. ###
06.19.2006	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) announced the availability of $38 million in the Federal 2006 Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) for Texas. This money will allow LIHEAP to assist an additional 40,000 eligible Texas households. The LIHEAP program was set up to assist low income households pay their high utility bills. Harris County households must have a total income below a certain limit depending on the number of members living in a household and have at least one member over 60 years of age or a disabled adult living in the household in order to qualify. In Harris County, the organization responsible for allocating these funds is Sheltering Arms Senior Services, a United Way agency. The funding is part of an additional $1 billion Congress added to the program for 2006 in S. 2320, which became law on March 20, 2006 and the funds were released at the county level late last week. The additional funding will approximately double the LIHEAP funds for Texas and the number of families Sheltering Arms will be able to serve. I want to make sure that seniors and households with disabled adults know about the program and how to apply, said Congressman Gene Green. With our energy bills at an all time high, many of our citizens are in need of cooling assistance during the hot summer months. We have been able to allocate new monies to a program that does just that, and I want our citizens in need of assistance to take advantage of this opportunity. Applicants should contact the Harris County Sheltering Arms Senior Services Utility Assistance hotline at 713-956-7456 between 9:00am-12:00pm on Tuesday and Thursday in order to see if one qualifies and how to apply for LIHEAP assistance. For assistance in Spanish contact 713-812-8037, Monday and Thursday from 9:00am-12:00pm. ###
06.12.2006	HOUSTONTX -- On Saturday, June 17, Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will host a citizenship workshop. This is a one-stop application processing opportunity for legal residents interested in obtaining their U.S. citizenship. The process consists of completing Form N400, taking photographs, and purchasing money orders for the application fee. The workshop will be held at Houston Community College-Northeast Campus at Northline Mall, Crosstimbers & I-45 North beginning at 8:00 a.m. Press availability will be at 11:30 a.m. followed by a walk-through of the applications process. Congressman Gene Green will be joined by members of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), J.P. Morgan Chase, NALEO, LULAC, and the U.S. Postal Service to offer this worthwhile opportunity for our community. Eligibility for Legal Residents: Must be 18 years old Be a legal resident for no less then 5 years If you are married to a U.S. citizen, you must be a resident for no less then 3 years Document and Information an Applicant Needs: Legal resident card Dates of entry and exit of the U.S. and the date of when residency was established Information on your residency and employment for last 5 years Total cost of application fees $400.00 (Bring cash to facilitate process) Assisting people in becoming citizens of the United States has been one of the most rewarding experiences Ive had since becoming a Member of Congress, said Congressman Green. Part of the American Dream is becoming a U.S. citizen. I can say that we have done this event for 12 years and each year we have been able to make a difference. We not only provide a service, but more importantly, we increase community awareness about the importance of U.S. citizenship. WHAT: Congressman Gene Green to host citizenship application workshop WHEN: Saturday, June 17 8:00 a.m.. WHERE: HCC-Northeast Campus at Northline Mall Crosstimbers & I-45 North For more information, please call 713-756-9429 ###
05.25.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Green announced the winner of the 29th Congressional District's 2006 Art Contest. Ms. Lynea Wallace of Furr High School won top honors for her submission to this years art competition. The first place winner was awarded a complimentary flight to Washington, D.C. from Southwest Airlines, along with transportation and hotel accommodations compliments of AT&T. Winning entries will be exhibited in the Nations Capitol for a year. Furr High School Principal Bertie Simmons, Furr Art Teacher David Eldridge and representatives from Southwest Airlines and AT&T joined Congressman Green in presenting Lynea Wallace with the First Place certificate. Weve held this art contest for our high school students every year since 1993, said Congressman Gene Green. Im pleased to present this award to Lynea; shes a great artist and a great young lady. Each year Im impressed at the level of talent and creativity that our students showcase, and this year was no exception. The Congressional Art Contest is an event held annually by Members of Congress across the nation. The contest for the 29th District which includes parts of Houston, Pasadena, Baytown and Channelview, as well as the Cities of South Houston, Jacinto City, and Galena Park is open to all high school students residing in the district. Entries must be an original concept and only one entry is allowed per student. We had a number of entries this year. Each one showed an immense amount of talent and vision, continued Congressman Gene Green. Unfortunately we could only have one first place winner. All of the students that participated should be proud, if it was up to me I would have all of them exhibit their work in Washington. Second place winner of the competition was Hector Garcia of MacArthur High School and third place went to Anna Hinojosa also of Furr High School. ###
05.05.2006	Houston, TX On Monday, May 8, Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) will be visiting three schools in the 29th Congressional District with Astronaut Dr. Franklin Chang-Diaz. Congressman Green has invited Dr. Chang Diaz to speak with students about the importance of staying in school, learning math and science, and graduating from high school. "It is a great opportunity for our students to hear firsthand from a successful astronaut on the importance of education, especially math and science" Green said. "Students need to know that an education, and committing to learning, can lead to success. What a better way for our students to see how one can apply math and science in the real world than by introducing them to a NASA Astronaut. It allows them to visit and ask questions of someone that they look up to. Doctor Franklin Chang‑Diaz received a Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Connecticut in 1973 and a doctorate in applied plasma physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1977. He was soon recruited by NASA and became an astronaut in August 1981. A veteran of six space flights, he has logged over 1,269 hours in space. School visits are scheduled at the following locations School visits are scheduled at the following locations: Monday, May 8 Grantham Academy Aldine ISD 13300 Chrisman Rd. 9:00 am Deady Middle School Houston ISD 2500 Broadway 10:45 a.m. Queens Intermediate- Pasadena ISD 1112 Queens Rd. 1:45 p.m. ###
05.04.2006	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) and Congressman Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), both members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, introduced the Safe Tissue Act in the House of Representatives. The legislation was introduced in the Senate by U.S. Sen. Charles Schumer (D-NY) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT). The legislation comes in response to recent revelations about a body parts ring operated out of New York and New Jersey. According to prosecutors investigating the case, Fort Lee, New Jersey based Biomedical Transplant Services (BTS) stole human tissue in order to sell it for use in transplants and research. "Families who agree to donate the tissue of their deceased loved ones do so out of the kindness of their hearts," said Congressman Gene Green. "These selfless families deserve to know how the tissue will be used and that it will be handled in a respectful manner by a credible tissue bank that will not profit excessively off the death of their loved ones. The Safe Tissue Act will put the appropriate regulations in place to give families those assurances and ensure all Americans that tissue donation is a truly honorable act that saves thousands of lives each year." BTS is said to have sold the tissue and body parts to processing companies across the country without asking for the families' permission, and without testing for disease. BTS allegedly forged consent documents and altered the cause of death and age of the deceased in order to make it appear the tissue came from a younger, healthier person. Many recipients have come forward charging they contracted diseases such as HIV, hepatitis and syphilis from the stolen tissue. The lawmakers say the Safe Tissue Act will ensure that tissue donors are protected from those who seek to profit illegally from their goodwill, and will protect the health of tissue donation recipients by preventing them from receiving potentially harmful tissue. "In this real-life version of the body snatchers, healthy people are getting sick when they are supposed to be receiving life saving tissue transplants," added Senator Schumer. "Instead of getting better they are being implanted with contaminated tissue that was acquired illegally from corpses. And, to add insult to injury, there isnt any accountability. Its time for stronger regulations in the tissue transplant industry to become law." The legislation increases U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) inspections of tissue banks, authorizes the FDA to conduct periodic audits of donation documents, establishes minimum standards for consent forms, establishes an accreditation process for tissue banks and improves regulations on payments for donated body parts or tissue. "Both tissue donors and recipients must have confidence in the overall system, something that was seriously compromised by the outrageous actions of BTS," said Congressman Pallone. "The Safe Tissue Act puts strong federal guidelines in place to give transplant recipients the peace of mind that they are receiving healthy donations while preventing profiteers from illegally desecrating bodies." ###
05.03.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will host a Veterans Forum designed to give Veterans an opportunity to visit with various veteran service organizations. Information on healthcare, disability and pensions benefits will be available along with information on how to start up a small business, buy a home and purchase land. The Forum will also give veterans an opportunity to meet with Congressman Gene Green and discuss issues that are of concern to them. The Veteran Forum will be held on Saturday May 20, 2006. It will take place at the American Legion Post 586 from 9:00AM to 12:00PM. We receive numbers of letters every month from veterans or veteran organizations, said Congressman Gene Green. This forum is designed to discuss issues that are of concern to our veteran community in a personal environment. It provides them an opportunity to speak with service organizations on a number of issues. This also gives me an opportunity to speak with our veteran community and gives me a chance to answer questions concerning whats being done for them in D.C. We have held Veterans Forums for some time now and we see the impact that it has on our veterans. It is just a way for us to give back to those that gave so much. ###
04.26.2006	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas) along with Congressman Michael Bilirakis (R-Florida), in a bi-partisan effort, introduced the Health Center Renewal Amendments of 2006, which seeks to provide additional authorization of funding for Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHC). Health Centers are built through community initiative. They make health care responsive and cost effective through aggressive outreach, patient education, translation, and other enabling support services. We introduced this legislation because we have seen the benefits of the Health Center Program on our communities, said Congressman Gene Green. This program has become so effective that it enjoys unprecedented bi-partisan support, from both the Congress and the Bush Administration. The Administrations budget proposal requests just under $2 billion in FY 2007 for the Health Center Program. The Green/Bilirakis Health Center Reauthorization bill would authorize the Presidens request for FY2007 and would authorize any necessary funding to be spent in FY2008-2011. Health centers do not provide care free of charge, while they do not turn away patients due to an inability to pay, every patient pays something based on a sliding scale. With 46 million Americans currently living without health insurance, health centers have become a critical feature of our countrys safety net. Without health centers to provide quality primary and preventive care, the uninsured would most likely forgo health care or seek care from our hospital emergency rooms. Of the more than 14 million Americans served by health centers, 75 percent are either uninsured or Medicaid beneficiaries. If these individuals are given the option of going to one of these Health Centers, they will be less inclined to end up at an emergency room, continued Congressman Gene Green. By providing primary and preventive care to the uninsured, these health centers save hospitals and county taxpayers millions of dollars. This also frees up hospital emergency rooms and the costs they incur. Health centers are developed and rooted in their communities. 51 percent of the Board of Directors for Health Centers are health center patients. With a community board governing the health center, patients are assured that all health center policies have been developed with the needs of patients in mind. ###
04.20.2006	Pasadena, TX: Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) will join, as keynote speaker, Ron Stone, Judge Robert Eckels and Sam Houston IV at the Official San Jacinto Day ceremony commemorating the 170th Anniversary of the Battle. The event will be held on Friday, April 21 at 11:00AM at the San Jacinto Monument. We are here today because on April 21, 1836, approximately 900 Texans and Tejano volunteers overpowered a larger, professional Mexican army, said Congressman Gene Green. Last year I was unable to attend due to votes in Washington, but its much better to be here in person and to celebrate the most important day in Texas history. The ceremony will take place at the San Jacinto Monument, which is also home to the Battleship Texas, a symbol of Texans sacrifices in World War I and World War II. Thankfully, we were able to secure $1.5 million for the restoration and preservation of Battleship TEXAS last year, continued Congressman Gene Green. The funding will help with the Battleship TEXAS Foundations plans to restore the Battleship TEXAS and convert it into a museum. The annual ceremony will include readings from General Houstons battle report, recognition of San Jacinto descendents and the Sons and Daughters of the Republic of Texas will award scholarships to area students. ###
04.18.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (TX-29), on Wednesday April 19, 2006 at 2:00PM, will join Councilwoman Carol Alvarado, State Representative Ana Hernandez, TxDOT Houston District Engineer Gary Trietsch, and local residents in breaking ground on the construction of the Central Avenue overpass in Houstons Manchester neighborhood. This groundbreaking is long overdue and Im sure that the local residents are relieved to see this project get underway, said Congressman Gene Green. Because the neighborhood is surrounded on all sides by rail lines and the Houston Ship Channel, Manchester needs better access when emergency vehicles are unable to get into the neighborhood at critical times, this overpass will eliminate the worst case scenario. The overpass will span the UP railroad tracks between Manchester and Texas 225 immediately east of IH 610-East Loop. The long awaited grade-separation project will finally become a reality with the award of the $15.1 million contract. Congressman Gene Green secured $12 million in federal funding for the project in the 1998 federal highway bill. "This is a joyous day not only for myself, but for the entire Manchester area, added Councilwoman Alvarado. Once construction is complete, residents will no longer be delayed by the hundreds of trains that pass through here everyday," WHO: Congressman Gene Green, Councilwoman Carol Alvarado, State Representattive Ana Hernandez and TxDOT Houston District Engineer Gary Trietsch. WHAT: Groundbreaking Ceremony for the Construction of the Central Avenue overpass in Houstons Manchester neighborhood. WHEN: Wednesday April 19, 2006 @ 2:00PM WHERE: Central Avenue on the neighborhood side of the railroad tracks ###
04.12.2006	Pasadena, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), on Wednesday April 12, 2006, will tour the manufacturing facility of Flexitallic L.P., a manufacturer of high quality industrial sealing products near Pasadena, TX. Flexitallic hired the University of Houston's Texas Manufacturing Assistance Center as consultants to assist Flexitallic in improving efficiency and profits. Flexitallic is a market leader in manufacturing industrial gaskets, said Congressman Gene Green. This is a world class company and Im glad that they have plants here in the Great City of Houston. And Im honored that I have been asked to come in and take a tour of their facilities. The Texas Manufacturing Assistance Center receives Federal funding through the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The University of Houston is one of only seven partners in the State of Texas that provide services to enhance the competitive position of the state's manufacturing sector. As a supporter of the NIST program and a graduate of the University of Houston, Im equally elated at the fact that they are working with the University to improve their standing, continued Congressman Gene Green. The University of Houston stands as one of the top Universities in Texas and Im proud that corporations within our state look to it to better themselves. ###
04.11.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will be available to the media beginning at 3 p.m. today following his meeting with Harris County Commissioner Sylvia Garcia, members of the Port Strategic Security Council Steering Committee, and other port security stakeholders at the Port of Houston Authority, located at 111 East Loop North (exit 29 off East Loop 610, near the Houston Ship Channel Bridge). The working meeting will focus on the implementation of $31 million in federal port security grants awarded to Harris County and the PHA in September 2005. Congressman Gene Green has held annual port security meetings since 2003. In January 2005, over 100 attendees from the private sector, the Port of Houston, the U.S. Coast Guard, and other local agencies attended the Port Security Grant Workshop at the Port of Houston. After that meeting, the Port Strategic Security Council (PSSC) was formed to seek funding and implement security projects along the Houston Ship Channel. In September 2005, the Department of Homeland Security awarded $17 million to Harris County and $14 million to the PHA in Round Five of Port Security Grant funding. The Harris County funding will be used for security boats, radars, cameras, underwater sonar, a bomb disruption robot, and radiation detectors, and the PHA grant will be used for card readers, cameras, gates, lights, security stations, and video software. Todays meeting is an update of our areas port security progress, said Congressman Gene Green. Terrorists have targeted assets like oil tankers and refineries before, so we need these projects as soon as possible to protect the community. The federal funding will cover capital costs, but not operations and maintenance of the new security infrastructure. We are going to look at public sources of funding, and we are going to ask the private sector to do their civic duty for Ship Channel security too. Congressman Green also intends to ensure that the grants are implemented on time and according to federal standards. The federal money will not sit on the table forever, continued Congressman Gene Green. With such a large combined award, federal oversight of our projects is expected, both from Congress and DHS. The PSSC Steering Committee consists of 11 voting members, and is comprised of representatives from each of the following agencies: o MTSA Regulated Houston Ship Channel Zone Reps (Industry) (4) o Harris County o Port of Houston Authority o East Harris County Manufacturers Association (EHCMA) o Channel Industries Mutual Aid (CIMA) o Maritime Community (appointed by West Gulf Maritime Association and Greater Houston Port Bureau) o City of Houston o Cities of East Harris County Non voting representatives of the Steering Committee are from the following organizations: o United States Coast Guard o Customs and Border Protection o Immigration and Customs Enforcement o United States Attorney o Director of Harris County Homeland Security o Harris County Purchasing Agent o Harris County Attorneys Office o State of Texas o Harris County Precinct 2 ###
04.05.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) invites area high school students to participate in the 29th Congressional Districts Annual Art Contest. Weve held this art contest for our high school students every year since 1993, said Congressman Gene Green. Each year Im impressed at the level of talent and creativity that our students showcase. The Congressional Art Contest is an event held annually by Members of Congress across the nation. The contest for the 29th District which includes parts of Houston, Pasadena, Baytown and Channelview, as well as the Cities of South Houston, Jacinto City, and Galena Park is open to all high school students residing in the district. Entries must be an original concept and only one entry is allowed per student. Art work must be two dimensional and cannot exceed 30 inches framed. Students interested in participating should contact their high school art teachers or any of the 29th Congressional District offices. Deadline for submitting entries is May 1st. The art work submitted can be in a number of mediums, continued Congressman Gene Green. Students can submit paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media and this year students can even submit computer generated art and photographs. We want to see a number of entries this year. We want to encourage our students to be creative and express themselves and I believe we accomplish that through competitions such as this. The winner of the art competition will receive a free trip to Washington, DC to meet with Congressman Gene Green and attend the exhibit opening ceremony. Their artwork will be displayed in our Nations Capitol for a year. ###
03.29.2006	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) today, along with several members of the Congressional Texas Delegation, wrote a letter to Governor Rick Perry seeking answers regarding the hiring of outside lobbying firms to represent Texas interests on Capitol Hill. In a letter sent to Governor Rick Perry, dated January 20, 2006, seven Texas Democrats asked the Governor to explain why the State of Texas needed to hire two lobbying firms to lobby on Texas behalf, even though there are 34 elected officials who represent Texas interests. The State of Texas has a D.C. office as well. The contracts cost $1 million in taxpayer money, but the Governor never responded. Governor Perrys office stated that both lobby firms did in fact merit the million dollar contract since they were responsible for the 2004 passage of the Texas sales tax exemption and the 2005 increase of Texas share of highway funds. Many Texas lawmakers in Washington, D.C. have also taken credit for their work in getting highway funds and for their work on the sales tax exemption. In response, Texas Democrats posed the following question to Governor Perry in todays letter: Did your lobbyists tell you that they were responsible for the state sales tax deduction or the increase in Texas share of highway funding? If not, then why would you give the credit for these efforts to your Washington lobbyists instead of to the elected Texas delegation, which includes members of your own Republican Party? If so, did any Texas Members of Congress verify the claims that these lobbyists were critical to the state sales tax deduction or the Texas highway funding share increase? The letter asks for a response by April 17, the start of the special session. ###
03.15.2006	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) strongly supported S.2320 on the House floor today, a bill that would provide Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funding equity for Southern states, including an extra $39 million to Texas. He distributed Dear Colleague letters on the floor and lobbied fellow Southern Members to support the bill. Congressman Green supports the bill, because it provides an extra $1 billion for the LIHEAP program for 2006 $500 million in formula funds and $500 million in emergency funds. The program helps states provide assistance to the nations working families and seniors at a time when energy prices are soaring. Congressman Gene Green said, The LIHEAP program has been controversial because the formula pits different regions of the country against each other. This LIHEAP compromise would provide an extra $39 million for Texas allowing us to serve an additional 46,000 families statewide, and other Southern and Western states would also do very well. In 2005 in Harris County, Sheltering Arms Senior Services administered $4,600,000 worth of LIHEAP funds and serving over 9,000 families, continued Congressman Gene Green. S 2320 would approximately double those amounts for 2006, so that is why we worked hard to convince the House to approve it today. For the 1st $2 billion appropriated under the program, Northern states do very well, and relatively little funding goes to the South. LIHEAP emergency funds are usually released to northern states, and Texas has received only 1.7% of LIHEAP emergency funding over the past five years. The Senate compromise benefits the South by providing an extra $500 million in regular LIHEAP funds, over and above the $2 billion Congress previously provided for 2006. The 50-50 Senate North-South compromise would guarantee the largest amount of LIHEAP funding for southern and western states ever, while also providing immediate assistance for northern states. S. 2320 is scheduled to be considered on the House floor later on this evening. It will require a 2/3rd majority vote in order to pass, if it doesnt receive the 2/3rd majority it could be considered on a later calendar that would only need a majority. ###
04.12.2006	Pasadena, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), on Wednesday April 12, 2006, will tour the manufacturing facility of Flexitallic L.P., a manufacturer of high quality industrial sealing products near Pasadena, TX. Flexitallic hired the University of Houston's Texas Manufacturing Assistance Center as consultants to assist Flexitallic in improving efficiency and profits. Flexitallic is a market leader in manufacturing industrial gaskets, said Congressman Gene Green. This is a world class company and Im glad that they have plants here in the Great City of Houston. And Im honored that I have been asked to come in and take a tour of their facilities. The Texas Manufacturing Assistance Center receives Federal funding through the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The University of Houston is one of only seven partners in the State of Texas that provide services to enhance the competitive position of the state's manufacturing sector. As a supporter of the NIST program and a graduate of the University of Houston, Im equally elated at the fact that they are working with the University to improve their standing, continued Congressman Gene Green. The University of Houston stands as one of the top Universities in Texas and Im proud that corporations within our state look to it to better themselves. ###
04.11.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will be available to the media beginning at 3 p.m. today following his meeting with Harris County Commissioner Sylvia Garcia, members of the Port Strategic Security Council Steering Committee, and other port security stakeholders at the Port of Houston Authority, located at 111 East Loop North (exit 29 off East Loop 610, near the Houston Ship Channel Bridge). The working meeting will focus on the implementation of $31 million in federal port security grants awarded to Harris County and the PHA in September 2005. Congressman Gene Green has held annual port security meetings since 2003. In January 2005, over 100 attendees from the private sector, the Port of Houston, the U.S. Coast Guard, and other local agencies attended the Port Security Grant Workshop at the Port of Houston. After that meeting, the Port Strategic Security Council (PSSC) was formed to seek funding and implement security projects along the Houston Ship Channel. In September 2005, the Department of Homeland Security awarded $17 million to Harris County and $14 million to the PHA in Round Five of Port Security Grant funding. The Harris County funding will be used for security boats, radars, cameras, underwater sonar, a bomb disruption robot, and radiation detectors, and the PHA grant will be used for card readers, cameras, gates, lights, security stations, and video software. Todays meeting is an update of our areas port security progress, said Congressman Gene Green. Terrorists have targeted assets like oil tankers and refineries before, so we need these projects as soon as possible to protect the community. The federal funding will cover capital costs, but not operations and maintenance of the new security infrastructure. We are going to look at public sources of funding, and we are going to ask the private sector to do their civic duty for Ship Channel security too. Congressman Green also intends to ensure that the grants are implemented on time and according to federal standards. The federal money will not sit on the table forever, continued Congressman Gene Green. With such a large combined award, federal oversight of our projects is expected, both from Congress and DHS. The PSSC Steering Committee consists of 11 voting members, and is comprised of representatives from each of the following agencies: o MTSA Regulated Houston Ship Channel Zone Reps (Industry) (4) o Harris County o Port of Houston Authority o East Harris County Manufacturers Association (EHCMA) o Channel Industries Mutual Aid (CIMA) o Maritime Community (appointed by West Gulf Maritime Association and Greater Houston Port Bureau) o City of Houston o Cities of East Harris County Non voting representatives of the Steering Committee are from the following organizations: o United States Coast Guard o Customs and Border Protection o Immigration and Customs Enforcement o United States Attorney o Director of Harris County Homeland Security o Harris County Purchasing Agent o Harris County Attorneys Office o State of Texas o Harris County Precinct 2 ###
04.05.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) invites area high school students to participate in the 29th Congressional Districts Annual Art Contest. Weve held this art contest for our high school students every year since 1993, said Congressman Gene Green. Each year Im impressed at the level of talent and creativity that our students showcase. The Congressional Art Contest is an event held annually by Members of Congress across the nation. The contest for the 29th District which includes parts of Houston, Pasadena, Baytown and Channelview, as well as the Cities of South Houston, Jacinto City, and Galena Park is open to all high school students residing in the district. Entries must be an original concept and only one entry is allowed per student. Art work must be two dimensional and cannot exceed 30 inches framed. Students interested in participating should contact their high school art teachers or any of the 29th Congressional District offices. Deadline for submitting entries is May 1st. The art work submitted can be in a number of mediums, continued Congressman Gene Green. Students can submit paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media and this year students can even submit computer generated art and photographs. We want to see a number of entries this year. We want to encourage our students to be creative and express themselves and I believe we accomplish that through competitions such as this. The winner of the art competition will receive a free trip to Washington, DC to meet with Congressman Gene Green and attend the exhibit opening ceremony. Their artwork will be displayed in our Nations Capitol for a year. ###
03.29.2006	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) today, along with several members of the Congressional Texas Delegation, wrote a letter to Governor Rick Perry seeking answers regarding the hiring of outside lobbying firms to represent Texas interests on Capitol Hill. In a letter sent to Governor Rick Perry, dated January 20, 2006, seven Texas Democrats asked the Governor to explain why the State of Texas needed to hire two lobbying firms to lobby on Texas behalf, even though there are 34 elected officials who represent Texas interests. The State of Texas has a D.C. office as well. The contracts cost $1 million in taxpayer money, but the Governor never responded. Governor Perrys office stated that both lobby firms did in fact merit the million dollar contract since they were responsible for the 2004 passage of the Texas sales tax exemption and the 2005 increase of Texas share of highway funds. Many Texas lawmakers in Washington, D.C. have also taken credit for their work in getting highway funds and for their work on the sales tax exemption. In response, Texas Democrats posed the following question to Governor Perry in todays letter: Did your lobbyists tell you that they were responsible for the state sales tax deduction or the increase in Texas share of highway funding? If not, then why would you give the credit for these efforts to your Washington lobbyists instead of to the elected Texas delegation, which includes members of your own Republican Party? If so, did any Texas Members of Congress verify the claims that these lobbyists were critical to the state sales tax deduction or the Texas highway funding share increase? The letter asks for a response by April 17, the start of the special session. ###
03.15.2006	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) strongly supported S.2320 on the House floor today, a bill that would provide Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funding equity for Southern states, including an extra $39 million to Texas. He distributed Dear Colleague letters on the floor and lobbied fellow Southern Members to support the bill. Congressman Green supports the bill, because it provides an extra $1 billion for the LIHEAP program for 2006 $500 million in formula funds and $500 million in emergency funds. The program helps states provide assistance to the nations working families and seniors at a time when energy prices are soaring. Congressman Gene Green said, The LIHEAP program has been controversial because the formula pits different regions of the country against each other. This LIHEAP compromise would provide an extra $39 million for Texas allowing us to serve an additional 46,000 families statewide, and other Southern and Western states would also do very well. In 2005 in Harris County, Sheltering Arms Senior Services administered $4,600,000 worth of LIHEAP funds and serving over 9,000 families, continued Congressman Gene Green. S 2320 would approximately double those amounts for 2006, so that is why we worked hard to convince the House to approve it today. For the 1st $2 billion appropriated under the program, Northern states do very well, and relatively little funding goes to the South. LIHEAP emergency funds are usually released to northern states, and Texas has received only 1.7% of LIHEAP emergency funding over the past five years. The Senate compromise benefits the South by providing an extra $500 million in regular LIHEAP funds, over and above the $2 billion Congress previously provided for 2006. The 50-50 Senate North-South compromise would guarantee the largest amount of LIHEAP funding for southern and western states ever, while also providing immediate assistance for northern states. S. 2320 is scheduled to be considered on the House floor later on this evening. It will require a 2/3rd majority vote in order to pass, if it doesnt receive the 2/3rd majority it could be considered on a later calendar that would only need a majority. ###
03.14.2006	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) is pleased to announce the academy appointment of three students from the 29th District. Three graduating seniors have been given appointments to three top military academies in the nation. David Yue-Wing Chan from Aldine and a 2006 graduate of Culver Military Academy was appointed to the United States Air Force Academy, in Colorado for the 2006 Fall Semester. David Garrett Johnson a 2006 graduate of Baytown Christian Academy was appointed to the United States Military (West Point) Academy, in New York for the 2006 Fall Semester and Bryan David Adams a 2006 graduate of Pasadena High School has been appointed to the Naval Academy Preparatory School in Newport, Rhode Island for the 2006 Fall Semester as well. Congressman Gene Green had the honor of nominating all three of these young men to their respective Academies. Its an honor for our community and our country to have one, let alone three of our very own students selected to attend our prestigious military academies, said Congressman Gene Green. Every year my office holds Academy Day, to which we have students come and learn about our military academies and it is a great pleasure to see that these students will be representing us at our great military colleges. ###
02.09.2006	Washington, DC-Congressman Gene Green (TX-29), today released the following statement concerning his utter dismay at the lack of funding of crucial Houston flood control project in the Bush Administration FiscalYear 2007 Budget. Houston is currently serving as a refuge for over 100,000 evacuees from Hurricane Katrina flooding, and in 2005 the City conducted the largest evacuation in U.S. history in front of Hurricane Rita, only to be spared at the last moment. In response, the Bush Administration placed a very low priority on protecting Texans from flooding. When we fail to fund federal flood control projects, we are gambling with peoples property and their lives. We always had trouble in the past funding these projects, but after Katrina and Rita, I thought the Administration got a wake up call. I guess they went back to sleep. Greens Bayou: The 2007 Bush budget provides no funds for Greens Bayou, a Congressionally-authorized federal flood control project. If they were funded, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has the capability of finishing the Greens Bayou Flood Control Project Study for $488,000 and beginning construction for $1.6 million. In Tropical Storm Allison, 15,500 residences flooded in the Greens Bayou watershed, more than any other watershed. The benefit-to-cost ratio for this project is 3.7 to 1, so each dollar spent saves $3.70 in future estimated damages. Hunting Bayou: The 2007 Bush budget provides no funds for Hunting Bayou. This authorized federal project is managed by Harris County Flood Control District, which has begun construction, but without federal reimbursements, the project will go slowly. In Tropical Storm Allison, 8,800 residences flooded in the Hunting Bayou watershed. This federal flood control project would reduce the risk of flooding for 6,200 homes and businesses and has a benefit-to-cost ratio of 2.9 to 1. Halls Bayou: The 2007 Bush budget provides no funds for Halls Bayou. This authorized project has not even started the study phase because of repeated refusals to fund it by the Bush Administration. In fact, the Bush budget provides no funding to study future flood control projects in the entire state of Texas. In Tropical Storm Allison, 12,800 residences flooded in the Halls Bayou watershed, the most of any watershed except Greens Bayou. The 2007 Bush Budget only funds two federal flood control projects in the entire stateSims Bayou and Brays Bayou. Sims and Brays Bayou projects are mature projects nearing completion and receive $20 million each, but this is only half of the United States Army Corps of Engineers (manages Sims) and Harris County Flood Control District (manages Brays) capability for these projects. Sims Bayou and Brays Bayou had 2,800 and 6,200 residences flood in Tropical Storm Allison. If the levees in New Orleans had been properly built and maintained, that city wouldnt have been devastated. Flood control projects save taxpayers money in the long runwe dont want to have to rebuild Houston too. I would hate to think about what will happen if the Big One does hit Houston during the next hurricane season, but obviously we have to since the Administration did not. Overall, commercial navigation projects fare better statewide and in the Houston area, although the Houston Ship Channel projects environmental work and its operations and maintenance are both funded at approximately 60% of their FY 2007 capability. ###
02.08.2006	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Gene Green (TX-29), will attend and give opening remarks during the Congressional Tri Caucus Town Hall meeting, Disaster Relief in Public Policy: Are we Being Served? Understanding the Need for Minority Leadership in the Aftermath of Katrina, in Houston at Texas Southern University on Saturday, February 11. The meeting will assess the current status and results of post-hurricane disaster relief in the Gulf Coast region. Caucus chairs, Melvin L. Watt, Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), Grace Napolitano, Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC); and Mike Honda, Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), will lead the panel discussion. The Congressional Tri Caucus was formed by the union of the CHC, CBC and the CAPAC, which was created to identify shared policy and political goals across multi-racial lines. WHO: Congressman Gene Green, CBC Chair Melvin L. Watt, CHC Chair Grace Napolitano CHC Chair; and CAPAC Chair Mike Honda CAPAC Chair. WHAT: Houston Town Hall Meeting WHEN: Saturday, February 11, 2006 2:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m. WHERE: Texas Southern University Thurgood Marshall School of Law Moot Court Room *Press Conference with Member of Congress will be held prior to the Town Hall meeting at 2:00pm at the Thurgood Marshall School of Law. ###
01.18.2006	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) returned to Washington today to join House and Senate Democrats in unveiling their honest Leadership, Open Government Act, and aggressive reform package to reverse Republican excesses and protect the public trust. Republican-controlled Washington has become infected with a Culture of Corruption, and the American people are paying the price, said Congressman Green While Republicans reward the wealthy and special interests, the priorities of the American people go unaddressed. That is why Democrats are offering real reforms to clean up Washington. Congressman Gene Green unveiled the Honest Leadership, Open Government Act in the historic Great Hall at the Library of Congress, where Members of Congress were joined by an audience of groups working to protect the public trust and force Congress to focus on the priorities of the American people. The Honest Leadership and Open Government Act will focus reforms on four key areas. It will close the revolving door between government and K Street lobbying firms by strengthening the ban on lobbying by former Members of Congress and senior government officials after they leave to work in the private sector, and require lawmakers to disclose when they are negotiating private-sector jobs to shine the light on conflicts of interest. It will fix the gift and travel rules that allowed the Jack Abramoffs of the world to buy Republican influence in Congress, ensuring that legislation will never again be written in smoky back rooms by industry lobbyists. It will put an end to the K Street project, in which Republicans have limited political access to corporations and lobbying firms who hire Republicans and contribute heavily to Republican campaigns. It will increase accountability in government, and allow the public to see exactly what their elected representatives are doing in Washington. The cost of corruption in Republican-run Washington is felt by American families everyday in the 29th District as they try to heat their homes and send their kids to college. While seniors struggle with a confusing and poorly implemented prescription drug program and middle-class families desperately try to pay higher bills with lower wages, special interests reap rewards and giveaways. By creating laws that provide billions to Big Oil, a multibillion dollar slush fund for the pharmaceutical industry and allow friends like Halliburton to receive no-bid contracts, Republicans in Washington have made it clear that their corruption has no bounds. House Democrats returned to Washington for an issues conference this week, as Republican leaders delayed the return of Congress until January 31, in hopes that former Majority Leader Tom DeLays could finish his trial in Texas for campaign money laundering and return as their leader. ###
01.04.2006	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), in conjunction with the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) Council 402, will host one of a series of Town Hall meetings at the Department of Education Building. Residents of the 29th Congressional District are encouraged to attend in order to express their views and concerns. Congressman Gene Green will also discuss a myriad of issues such as his recent visit to Iraq, the new Prescription Drug Plan and Federal government wiretaps. We always get a great response to our Town Hall meetings, said Rep. Gene Green. It allows me the opportunity to visit with members of our community. Im able to discuss issues that concern them as well as discuss issues that Im working on in Washington. Congressman Gene Green will have on hand a television, on mute of course, tuned to this years Rose Bowl, where he will be giving his full support to the University of Texas against USC and constituents can follow the game and do their civic duty. This is an exciting game and an exciting time for Texas, continued Congressman Green. I know that there will be folks in attendance that will be anxious to know what is going on not only in government but also in the game. WHAT: CONGRESSMAN GENE GREEN TOWN HALL MEETING *IN CONJUNCTION WITH LULAC COUNCIL 402 WHEN: WEDNESDAY, January 4TH, 2006 @ 6:30 PM WHERE: DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION BUILDING 6300 IRVINGTON BLVD, ROOM 100 HOUSTON, TX ###
12.22.2005	Washington, DC - Houston- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), throughout January, will host a series of town hall meetings and events located in your neighborhood. Additionally, constituents of the 29th Congressional District may be interested in attending other events, such as the senior citizens issues forum and a paying for college workshop. Information about these events is listed below. This is our first series of town hall meetings for 2006, which are scheduled at various times and locations, said Rep. Gene Green. I would encourage constituents to attend a town hall meeting or event so that I can hear your views and concerns. Tuesday, January 3rd, 7:00 pm *In conjunction w/ the Denver Harbor Civic ClubDenver Harbor Community Center6402 Market Street Wednesday, January 4th, 10:00 am**Senior Citizen Forum**Grayson Center13828 Corpus Christi Wednesday, January 4th, 6:30 pm*In conjunction w/ LULAC Council 402Harris County Education Building6300 Irvington Blvd., Room 100 Thursday, January 5th, 7:00 pm*In conjunction w/ Songwood Civic ClubApostolic Revival Center618 Baca Saturday, January 7th, 9:00 amSouth Houston Community Building1007 State Street Saturday, January 7th, 11:00 amBaytown City Council Chambers2401 Market Street, Baytown Tuesday, January 17th, 7:00 pmCesar Chavez High School8501 Howard Drive Saturday, January 21st, 9:00 amAldine Community Storefront5202 Aldine Mail Route Saturday, January 21st, 11:00 amNorth Channel Library15741 Wallisville Road Monday, January 30th, 7:00 pm**Paying for College Workshop**Galena Park Senior High School1000 Keene ###
12.16.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) released the following statement regarding voting against HR 4437, the Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration control Act of 2005. I voted against this bill with reservation. There are aspects of the bill I strongly support, such as strengthening security along the border and preventing immigration officials from having to catch and release undocumented aliens that are detained due to lack of space in our detention facilities I have co-sponsored legislation that addresses both these problems. However, I could not support the bill as it was brought to the Floor of the House. Under this bill, approximately 11 million people in this country would become aggravated felons. Currently, 40 percent of immigration detainees are held in Department of Homeland Security facilities; 60 percent of these detainees are in local jails under contract with the Federal Government. There are not enough prisons to handle these numbers. I cannot imagine our country loading box cars with an estimated 11 million people who do not have documents showing they are legal. This brings visions of deportations in Nazi Germany and Stalinist Soviet Union. The Federal Government needs to take responsibility for holding all of these detainees. Adding 11 million felons will overwhelm our already overcrowded prison system. Also, it is estimated that there are approximately 3 million U.S. citizen children that would be impacted by having their undocumented parents or guardians detained or deported. This is something we need to review closely and make sure we are not making life harder for children that are U.S. citizens who happen to be born to undocumented parents. I believe in increasing protection along our borders and realistically addressing the current undocumented population; but I also oppose a new guest worker program. ###
12.16.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will join a Congressional Trip in a four day, four country educational tour to Israel, Iraq, Kuwait and Germany. The Congressman will be joined by Congressmen Tom Osborne (R-NE), Bob Ney (R-OH), John Boozman (R-AR) and Charles Boustany (R-LA). The stops in Iraq, Kuwait and Germany will include meeting with soldiers. Im honored to have the chance to visit our troops in Iraq, said Gene Green. But most importantly I want to visit with the young men and women serving there during the holiday season. This is a great opportunity for us to really get a good look at issues that are affecting our Nation and the world, continued Congressman Gene Green. We are going to be visiting with Israeli, Palestinian, Iraqi leaders and more importantly our troops. We will also be the first Members of Congress to visit Iraq after the national Iraqi elections. Im very interested to see what the general atmosphere of the country is going to be and the spirits of our troops. Its always difficult to be deployed during a time of war, concluded Congressman Gene Green. But its especially hard to be deployed during the Holiday seasons on both the families and the troops. I hope that our visit and gifts, comprised of calling cards to call home, will bring them a bit of Christmas cheer from back home. ###
12.15.2005	Washington, DC-Congressman Gene Green(D-Houston) hosted an annual Tamales and Margaritas Celebration at his office in Washington, D.C. in order to bring an old Mexican tradition, which was adopted by Tejanos long ago, of celebrating the holidays with hot tamales to his friends and colleagues in D.C. The Congressman hosted a number of Members and staffers from the Energy and Commerce Committee, the Texas Delegation and member of the Democratic Leadership. Members and staffers mingled as they enjoyed tamales brought back from the Congressmans District in Houston, margaritas and chips and homemade salsa. Weve been having this party now for years, said Congressman Gene Green. Its an opportunity for us to spend some time with our colleagues in a different setting other than work. Back home its tradition to celebrate Christmas and New Years, with a hot batch of tamales, and I love that tradition. Judging from the number of people that were here last night, I would say they enjoyed it too. ###
12.12.2005	Houston, TX-Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas) today held a press conference in order to highlight senior citizens frustrations with the Medicare Prescription Drug plan, Rep. Gene Green outlined steps Congress should take to help seniors navigate the plan. Rep. Greens proposals also included changes Congress should make to the Medicare Prescription Drug Plan to improve coverage for seniors. Ive received numerous calls from constituents who are very concerned about the new prescription drug plan and after going through it myself I cant say I blame them, said Congressman Gene Green. With over 40 plans to choose from in Texas, 22 in Harris County alone and numerous private insurers offering plans themselves we have sent our seniors into a giant labrynth with little chance of getting out. After visiting with senior citizen centers over the past couple of days, Congressman Gene Green has decided that Congress needs to step in and take action to help seniors make the best decision. Given the enormity of this decision and seniors inability to change plans until next year, Congressman Gene Green added. Congress needs to extend the May 15, 2006 deadline by which seniors must enroll before they are penalized. Id also like to see the deadline extended for dual-eligibles. Most importantly, Congress needs to make the changes to the program that will provide seniors better prescription drug prices and bridge the coverage gaps in the current program, what we call the donut hole. In the New Year, we hope to move forward on legislation to remedy many of the problems with the Medicare prescription drug benefit, concluded Congressman Gene Green. This is not the prescription drug coverage we want for our seniors, and Congress should take steps to fix the problem. ###
11.18.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) secured $700,000 for the City of Baytown for the implementation of its Texas Avenue Streetscape Plan, today as part of the FY2006 Department of Transportation Appropriations bill. Im very excited to be part of this project, said Congressman Gene Green. We have been in close contact with the City of Baytown and I understand the importance of the Texas Avenue Streetscape Plan, not just for business but for the community. Downtown Baytown has a great history and its citizens want to give it a nice makeover and Im proud to have been able to help them. Congressman Gene Green was instrumental in efforts to secure funding for the Texas Avenue Streetscape Plan. As early as April 2005, Congressman Green sent a letter to Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Joe Knollenberg and Ranking Member John W. Olver, requesting funding for the Texas Avenue plan. The City of Baytown will utilize the funding to create an inviting pedestrian and retail district along Texas Avenue as part of the Citys master Plan to revitalize downtown Baytown. ###
11.17.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green(D-Houston) secured $1.5 million for the restoration and preservation of Battleship TEXAS today in the FY 2006 Defense Appropriations bill in his multi-year effort to assist in the funding of the restoration of this great Texas historical site. Battleship TEXAS has been a great instrument of education and recreation for thousands of families over the years, said Congressman Gene Green. We have approximately 200,000 the Battleship each year. Its the only warship that has served in both World War I and World War II. Its an honor to be able to be part of this project. The Battleship TEXAS was commissioned in 1914 and is the only surviving battleship to have served our country in both the first and second World Wars. In 1948 TEXAS was decommissioned and moved to the historic site of the San Jacinto Battleground Park, becoming the nations first memorial battleship. In 1983, the Texas was placed under the stewardship of the Texas Parks and Wildlife and is permanently anchored on the Buffalo Bayou and the busy Houston Ship Channel. Currently the Battleship TEXAS Foundation is looking to dry dock and restore the Battleship TEXAS and convert it into a historic naval museum. ###
11.16.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) today sent a letter to Alphonso Jackson, Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and R. David Paulison, Acting Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), demanding an extension of the December 1st FEMA deadline to end reimbursements for evacuees hotel costs, if FEMA does not comply with changes to the federal disaster housing policies that are impeding local governments and organizations from moving evacuees from hotels into housing. FEMAs decision to set a December 1st deadline for cutting off funding for evacuees hotel costs is not acceptable, said Congressman Gene Green. We have spoken to members of FEMA and we have expressed our concerns with the regulatory roadblocks that they have set up that severely restrict local governments or organizations ability to find housing for evacuees. The City of Houston, Harris County and a number of organizations have been working hard to find these people proper housing, but its a Catch-22- FEMAs left hand doesnt know what the right hand is doing. Congressman Gene Green has asked FEMA to find solutions to the following federal regulations that will in turn allow displaced individuals to be moved to permanent housing: 1. Causing Housing Uncertainty: FEMA and HUD have raised the legal distinction of Sec. 403 Housing Assistance and Sec. 408 Shelter Assistance to restrict their commitment to apartment leases that the Joint Housing Task Force has arranged for evacuees to get them out of hotels and shelters. 1-year leases were necessary to secure the cooperation of apartment owners and to provide stability to evacuees who will not be able to return to their homes any time soon, if ever. After the City and County agreed to reimburse for these shelter and housing arrangements at 1-year leases, FEMA and HUD now claim that the Stafford Act necessarily restricts federal support to six months This move will cause apartment owners to withdraw participation and expose local governments to liability. I understand from your recent letter to City of Houston Mayor Bill White that new statutory flexibility would be needed to allow for 1-year support, and I request that FEMA work with the Congressional delegation to solve this issue on pending legislation as soon as possible. 2. Restricting Housing Options: FEMA and HUD have enforced restrictions on housing vouchers that do not let evacuees supplement the voucher out of their own pocket to sign leases. This has the direct affect of removing housing stock with a market rental value above the voucher amounts from evacuees. The Joint Housing Task Force estimates 7,000-8,000 housing units, particularly those with three or more bedrooms for families, are unavailable to evacuees seeking to leave hotels because of this policy. 3. Discriminatory Treatment of Local Citizens: the City of Houston had 19,000 local residents on the waiting lists for public housing assistance prior to Hurricane Katrina. While local officials at all levels have welcomed the large evacuee population as new neighbors, we must be responsive to our existing constituents as well. The Houston area will require extra allowances for housing vouchers in order to prevent a political backlash against the disaster housing program, which would only serve to intensify the crisis resulting from the regulatory obstacles mentioned above. FEMA announced its intention to stop paying for hotel and motel rooms for Katrina and Rita evacuees beginning Dec. 1st. This included 19,000 hurricane evacuees still in Houston hotels. The Houston area alone is home to approximately 150,000 hurricane evacuees, with 40,000 already transferred to medium-term housing. Congressman Gene Green stressed his concern with the slow reimbursements that the City of Houston has received. Houston area local governments are taking months to get reimbursed for emergency needs immediately after the storms and frankly we are concerned about the idea of full reimbursement for long term recovery costs like housing considering our history with FEMA and Tropical Storm Allison in 2001, said Congressman Gene Green. We are still waiting several million dollars in eligible federal reimbursement. Congressman Gene Green understands that FEMA must at some point end hotel reimbursements but he believes this is not the right time, not while FEMA itself is making it difficult to house the very individuals it plans on displacing. ###
11.09.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), today secured $350,000 and $400,000 in appropriations for Buffalo Bayou and Brays Bayou, respectively, through the FY 2006 Science-State-Justice-Commerce Appropriations bill. Congressman Gene Green requested the $750,000 total in appropriations from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administrations Coastal and Estuarine Land Protection program for the City of Houston to acquire property along Buffalo Bayou and Brays Bayou. The City of Houstons acquisition of this property along the Buffalo Bayou will allow for restored wetland habitats, increased wildlife habitats and improved water quality along the Bayou. The property totals 1.5 acres and would allow for the expansion of Hidalgo Park, located in a primarily Hispanic Houston neighborhood that has traditionally lacked greenspace. The parks expansion will facilitate plans to link Hidalgo Park with Buffalo Bend Nature Park, for which Congressman Green secured necessary land acquisition funding in 2003. Buffalo Bayou is a historically significant symbol of Houston, said Congressman Gene Green. The Buffalo Bayou Partnership has begun to revitalize the Bayou in a manner that balances the conservation of its wetlands and waterways with the need for recreational development in the City of Houston The property along Brays Bayou totals two acres and would represent the first step in securing a major portion of the undeveloped floodplain and the banks along Brays Bayou, from its confluence with Buffalo Bayou to Mason Park. The City of Houston has identified this area along Brays Bayou as an ideal location for a greenbelt park, continued Congressman Green. The City also plans to acquire adjacent tracts to widen the greenbelt and create a functioning linear park. This is ideal for families in our community. The resulting park would create a gateway to historic Harrisburg. In a letter to Chairman Frank Wolf and Ranking Member Alan Mollohan of the Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and State, Congressman Green reiterated the importance of purchasing the area surrounding both Buffalo and Brays Bayou in order to continue its preservation of Houstons historical system in a manner that balances the need to conserve the Bayous wetlands and waterways with the recreational and business development needed to transform the Bayous into an active and vibrant urban waterfront centers. In continuing the tradition of public and private financial support for this project, the City of Houston has committed to providing a $750,000 funding match to ensure that this property is properly conserved and protected from development. ###
11.08.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) held a press conference to announce the introduction of a bi-partisan legislation calling for the naming of the Department of Education headquarters building in Washington, D.C. the Lyndon Baines Johnson Federal Building today, November 8th, on the 40th Anniversary of President Johnson signing of the Higher Education Act of 1965. Congressman Gene Green and co-sponsor House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Joe Barton (R-Ennis) were joined at the press conference by Ambassador James R. Jones, and other former members of the Johnson Administration. Today is the 40th anniversary of President Johnsons signing of the Higher Education Act of 1965, said Congressman Gene Green. This bill began the federal student loan program and helped millions of smart, hardworking Americans who lacked the means for higher education to attend college. President Johnson was the first President from Texas and was elected with the highest popular vote margin in history, continued Congressman Gene Green. LBJ passed away over thirty years ago, but to this day has no federal buildings bearing his name in the Capitol area. Both, Presidents Reagan and Bush have been honored with the International Trade Center and the Central Intelligence Agency buildings, reflecting their priorities and contributions. Lyndon Johnsons first priority in life was education, and he was the first Education President, so the Department of Education building is a perfect fit. concluded Congressman Gene Green. The building, located at 400 Maryland Ave. SW does not currently have a name. President Lyndon Baines Johnsons career in education began when he went to Southwest Texas State Teachers College in San Marcos. He earned money as a janitor and taught 5th, 6th, and 7th grades at a Mexican-American school in the south Texas town of Cotulla. He later taught at Sam Houston High School in Houston in my district. President Johnson went on to sign into law over sixty education bills, including the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, said Congressman Gene Green. Which established the Head Start program, the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, and the Higher Education Act of 1965? These education priorities are accepted by both political parties, as they were then. The Higher Education Act passed 368 to 22 in the House and 79 to 3 in the Senatea strong bipartisan vote. Congressman Gene Greens bill has twenty Texas co-sponsors, nearly two-thirds of the delegation, including nine Republicans and eleven Democrats. ###
10.27.2005	Washington, DC -Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) today urged his fellow colleagues to support House Joint Resolution 65, which disapproves of the recommendations made by Defense Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC), set forth back in September of this year. If resolution passes both in the House and Senate, the list would have been sent back to the Commission for review. This is the most ill-advised and ill-timed round in the history of Base Realignments and Closures, said Congressman Gene Green. We currently have men and women fighting in two countries, we have passed three of the largest supplemental requests in our nations history with a fourth likely in the next several months, and we are in the process of closing bases overseas and bringing troops home. Like many other communities across the country, the district I represent was affected by the Defense Departments plan to consolidate Air National Guard units, leaving one of the largest metropolitan areas in the country less prepared to respond to a terrorist attack. Currently the 147th Fighter Wing of the Texas Air National Guard provides air security for the Gulf Coast and is permanently stationed at Ellington Field, Texas. The 147th could respond to a threat on the petrochemical complex or at the Port of Houston in minutes due to its close proximity. One of the most vulnerable targets in the area, and possibly the country, is the petrochemical complex, continued Congressman Gene Green. This is a tremendous complex that stretches the length of the Houston Ship Channel and continues along the coast through Beaumont, Texas. We have seen in the aftermath of Katrina and Rita the negative effects caused by disruptions in our oil supply and refining capacity, and leaving this area unprotected is leaving the door open to a terrorist attack on this critical infrastructure. The House Resolution came up for a vote on Thursday, October 27, 2005, early this afternoon. The Resolution was voted down with a vote of 85-324. *Congressman Gene Green spoke on the House floor; attached are his comments. ### H. Res. 65 "Mr. Chairman, I am proud to follow my neighbor from Texas (Mr. Delay). Ellington s in his district, but I am the next closest Member. "I rise to express my disapproval for the recommendations of the Defense Base Realignment and Closure and urge my colleagues to support the gentleman from Illinois resolution, of which I am a proud cosponsor. This is the most ill-advised, ill-timed round in base closure history. We currently have men and women fighting in two countries, and we passed three large supplemental requests, and a fourth likely in the next few months. We are in the process of closing bases overseas and bringing them home. Given these uncertainties, we cannot know what our base needs or our threat needs will be for the next 5, 10, or 20 years. "Like a number of my colleagues, Ellington is home to the 147th Air National Guard Wing, Teas Air National Guard Wing. Houston is the 4th largest city in our Nation. It is our home, has a huge petrochemical complex that accounts for nearly half of the Nations base petrochemical production. The Houston ship channel in the Port of Houston handled more foreign tonnage than any other port. We have the medical center and NASAs Johnson Space Center. One of the most vulnerable targets in the area is the petrochemical complex, along with these other assets. Yet the base closure commission on a close vote decided to close Ellington. "Now, what they are doing is they are saying that we are going to provide service from San Antonio, Texas. The problem is that is 23 minutes away. As we know, an airborne attack on a refinery complex could seriously disrupt our Nations energy supply, causing major nationwide economic impacts. An attack on a chemical plant could result in a hazardous release and thousands of casualties. "Currently our 147th Air Wing provides air security in the area, and the solution from the Pentagon is rotating several planes to fly on alert out of Ellington, which provides a much smaller deterrent than having a full squadron. What would happen if we had multiple planes that are attacking different facilities? "I urge a yes vote on the resolution." ###
10.24.2005	Houston, TX-Over the weekend, Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) successfully hosted the grand opening of his new 29th Congressional district office in Baytown. Congressman Gene Greens new office is located at 10 N. Gaillard in downtown Baytown. Congressman Gene Green was joined by 30 members of the Baytown community including former Councilman Perry Simmons, Councilman Brandon Capetillo, Councilman Sammy Mahan and Councilman Scott Sheley. Also, Lee College President Martha Ellis and Baytown Chamber of Commerce President Tracey Wheeler stopped by to lend their support to Congressman Green. It was a great event, said Congressman Gene Green. It was so nice to see so many people come and greet us. We were honored to see some of our old friends that came to welcome us and also we were able to meet some new ones. Our office is here so that we may better serve the community. This is a great City and its an honor and a privilege to be able to represent it. Congressman Gene Green held a traditional ribbon cutting ceremony once the crowds began to gather. Shortly afterwards Congressman Green honored former Councilman Perry Simmons by presenting him with a plaque in honor of his years of public service. I encourage all the citizens of Baytown that live in the 29th District to come in at some point and say hello, continued Congressman Gene Green. We are here to serve them, and my staff and I look forward to speaking with them on any issue of concern to them. Constituents may contact Congressman Greens new office at 281-420-0502. Constituents may also stop in to discuss federal issues or to seek assistance with federal agencies. ###
10.20.2005	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), proudly displaying his Astros cap, gave the following statement on the U.S. House of Representatives floor, in honor of the Houston Astros and the Astros organization for their Game 6 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals, which catapulted them to the first ever Houston Astros visit to the World Series. Mr. Gene Green of Texas asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks. Mr. Speaker, I rise this morning to congratulate the Houston Astros, the major league baseball team which last night defeated the St. Louis Cardinals to earn the right to go to the 2005 World Series. This is the first World Series for the City of Houston and the first World Series for the State of Texas. The Astros and the Texas Rangers were founded in 1962 and 1961 respectively. Also, first congratulating the team for its hard work and dedication, I wasnt to express thanks to our owner Drayton McLane, who has been a tremendous asset to the City of Houston. It was an honor to work closely with him on the Harris County Sports Authority to build what is now Minute Maid Park to replace the historic Houston Astrodome. I want to salute Tal Smith, who is a great part of the Astros organization since the beginning when they were the Colt 45s. As the President of Baseball Operations, he has been an integral part of the entire organization. The Houston Astros do not have one of the highest payrolls in baseball, so the fact that they are now in the World Championship is a tribute to our general manager Tim Purpura and also our manager Phil Scrap Iron Garner, who actually played for the Astros years ago. It is good to have him back home. Many of the 2005 national League Champion Houston Astros are products of our minor league farm system, not high-priced free agents, including the winner of last nights game, Roy Oswalt. The Astros were the best team in baseball for the month of July and never looked back. Now they are the best team in the National League and look forward to taking on the White Soxs in the 2005 World Series, Mr. Speaker. In addition we have a lot of homegrown talent. Craig Biggio, Jeff Bagwell, Roger Clemens and Andy Pettitte, again, are some of our great players along with the whole team. Again, Congratulations. ###
10.05.2005	Washington, DC - {TX-Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) today announced that San Jacinto Community College North (SJCCN) has been awarded a grant by the Department of Education (DOE). The grant was awarded under the Strengthening Institutions-Hispanic Serving Institutions Program for the amount of $604, 918.00. The Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions Program (Developing HSI) is set up to expand educational opportunities for, and improve the academic attainment of, Hispanic students. The Developing HSI program also enables Hispanic serving institutions to expand and enhance their academic offerings, program quality and institutional stability. It gives me great pleasure to announce the grant award for San Jacinto Community College North, said Congressman Gene Green. Im a firm believer that education is our future and we all know that our students are our future and with the addition of this Federal Grant, our future looks brighter." "San Jac North has done an exceptional job in encouraging our students to succeed and the numbers dont lie, they have been a success," conitued Congressman Gene Green. "We will continue to work with San Jacinto Community College North and with the students in our community so that they receive all the assistance they need to fulfill their dreams. Congratulations to the administration, the faculty and most of all, the students. ###
09.29.2005	Washington, DC-Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) offered the Green Energy Assurance Amendment to H.R. 3893 during the Energy and Commerce Committee mark-up. Chairman Joe Barton(R-Ennis) announced his support and the Green amendment was adopted. The Committee later approved HR 3893 by voice vote, and the bill is expected on the House floor next week. The Green Energy Assurance Amendment requires DOE to review, approve or disapprove, and make recommendations on the fuel supply portions of State evacuation plans. Texas did take precautionary measures in mobilizing its citizens, our office contacted the nursing homes and hospitals in our district to make sure that they were prepared for an evacuation or able to sustain themselves if they decided to stay. Anyone who watched Texans struggling to evacuate without enough fuel saw a lack of energy planning, said Congressman Gene Green. Last Wednesday everyone knew there was going to be a mass evacuation by millions of people, but fuel supply trucks did not start rolling on those evacuation routes until Thursday evening." It was 100 degrees in Texas last week, and people needed to run their air conditioning to survive 15 hours in that kind of heat, continued Congressman Gene Green. Our States weakness was exposed, but I doubt if other states have adequate fuel supply plans for evacuations from natural or man-made disasters. DOE should find out. Congressman Gene Greens amendment also authorizes critical energy facilities and DOE to work directly together during federal emergencies or disasters. The assistance includes, but is not limited to emergency power generation equipment, other protective or emergency recovery equipment, assistance to restore access to water and other raw materials, and transportation and housing for critical employees, and fuel refineries and truck availability to ensure proper fuel supply. One of the problems, for example, that we faced due to hurricane Rita was that the water sub-station in Baytown was damaged and became non-operational, said Congressman Gene Green. This threatened the residents and gasoline production facilities and it took three days to resolve. Fuel is desperately needed in the aftermath of hurricanes. Currently requests for assistance must go through the local, then state, and then be coordinated with FEMA, taking up time. During these emergency and disaster periods local, state, and FEMA officials are more concerned with preventing loss of life, as they should be, said Congressman Gene Green. Since these officials are not energy experts, the Department of Energy needs to take the job of actively protecting the nations energy supply during times of crisis." This amendment allows DOE to work with the rest of the federal government to plan for our nations energy security during emergencies, and DOE is also authorized to write regulations to implement this new authority smoothly." The Committee also accepted an amendment offered by Congressman Gene Green to prioritize carpool and vanpool grants made by the Department of Energy based on the grants potential for oil conservation, whether they are to be located in Clean Air Act non-attainment areas, and whether they can be utilized during a States evacuation plan. During an evacuation, vanpools could be used to evacuate special needs populations and those who do not have or cannot afford transportation, concluded Congressman Gene Green. ###
09.26.2005	Houston, TX-Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas) today received confirmation from Dr. Persse, City of Houstons Emergency Management Medical Director, that a mobile military hospital will in fact be set up at Ellington field later on this evening. During the preliminary meetings to secure the Texas coast from Hurricane Rita on Friday, September 26, 2005, Congressman Gene Green heard reports that hospitals in Houston were now full and were turning away emergency room patients. Congressman Gene Green proceeded to contact the Department of Defense (DOD) to let them know that a request for medical bed assistance would be coming soon, a forewarning due to the fact that aid requests must come from the State. (Federal emergency aid requests must be initiated at the local level who then make the request to the State level, who then makes the request to the Federal level.) We tracked the City and Countys request for medical assistance at the local, state, and federal level throughout the weekend, said Congressman Gene Green. After several conflicting reports and delays, I am glad the request has finally been granted and this medical facility will open tomorrow. Since these medical assets were pre-positioned in Texas before the storm, it shouldnt take over 72 hours to get them up and running. If Houston had taken a direct hit to our medical infrastructure like in Allison, the result of this red tape could have been very dangerous, continued Congressman Gene Green. Congressman Gene Green worked closely with Dr. Persse, the City of Houstons Emergency Management Medical Director and Dr. Eduardo Sanchez, Texas Commissioner of Health to get the emergency facility set up in Houston. Dr. Persse has indicated that the military medical unit will operate out of Ellington Field concluded Congressman Gene Green. They hope to have it operational by this evening or shortly thereafter. The materials are already positioned in Houston; they just have to assemble the necessary personnel. I want to thank Dr. Persse and Dr. Sanchez for their role in keeping the lines of communications open even as blurry as they were. ###
09.21.2005	HOUSTON, TX-Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) today, wrote a letter to Rep. Tom Davis, Chairman of the Select Committee for Katrina Response, and demanded that he postpone the Katrina select committee meetings for today and next week so that federal agencies can respond effectively to Hurricane Rita, which is now bearing down on the Texas coast as an extremely dangerous Category Five Hurricane. Congress Daily PM reported that the National Weather Service and National Hurricane Center will be testifying at the select committee and that ex-FEMA Director Mike Brown will be testifying next week. "I was concerned that top officials from the National Weather Service and the National Hurricane Center are being called to Congress tomorrow, when Texans need them working to protect us." "With a Category Five hurricane causing millions to evacuate before the 150 mile-per-hour winds come ashore, don't the Weather Service and Hurricane Center have more important things to do?" "It is also a misuse of resources for any FEMA officials to testify next week. FEMA officials--former Director Mike Brown excepted--will have lives to save and a relief operation to run next week." "After a Category Five hurricane hits Texas, FEMA needs to provide relief, not draft their Congressional testimony." "This unbalanced, partisan select committee was a mistake and I opposed it because I thought it would not be a full investigation. Now I am afraid this misguided committee could distract essential relief agencies at the worst possible time." ###
09.20.2005	WASHINGTON, DC-Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) today, signed a joint letter to President George W. Bush, along with fellow members of the Houston Congressional Delegation, asking the President to declare Texas a state of emergency in anticipation of Hurricane Rita striking the Texas Gulf Coast. We agree with Governor Perry and his pre-emptive call for state of emergency declaration, said Congressman Gene Green. We certainly do not want to see another catastrophe as the one we saw in New Orleans. We are not sure where Hurricane Rita is going to make landfall but we do know that it will hit Texas. We just want to make sure that we are ready. The letter to President Bush came soon after Governor Rick Perry asked that the State of Texas be declared a disaster area in anticipation of Hurricane Rita hitting Texas. Governor Perry asked President Bush to approve federal aid to affected counties. Congressman Gene Green said, We want to make sure every precaution is taken. Our office has contacted our local hospitals and nursing homes that are in Hurricane Ritas risk area to make sure that they are prepared to weather the storm or in worst case scenario, ready to evacuate. ###
09.19.2005	HOUSTON, TX-Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), on Monday, September 19, 2005 held his 8th Paying for College Workshop, in conjunction with the Sallie Mae Fund at Cesar Chavez High School in Houston. Congressman Gene Green was joined by 200 attendees that included parents, students and school administrators. This is our 8th time to hold this event, said Congressman Gene Green. Each time it has gotten bigger and better which lets us know that we are getting the word out and that we are definitely making a difference in the lives of the youth in our community. Every time we hold this event we pick a different high school in our district. So far we have held our workshop at North Shore High School, Aldine, Milby, MacArthur, Furr, Sam Houston, Austin and of course this year at Cesar Chavez High School. The workshop, which is held in conjunction with the Sallie Mae Fund has been serving students in the 29th Congressional District for the last four years. Twice a year, Sallie Mae Fund representatives join Congressman Gene Green and give a tutorial that shows parents and student how they can access money for college through Federal loans, grants and scholarships. The presentation is held in both in English and in Spanish. Two $500 Scholarships, from the Sallie Mae Fund, were awarded at the end of the special workshop. Both winners were from Cesar Chavez High School. Scholarship winners were Jennifer Martinez, 12th grader; and Jose Rodriguez, 11th grader. Students throughout the 29th district were in attendance, with 25 high schools represented and five school districts, including, Houston, Galena Park, Aldine, Goose Creek and Pasadena ISDs. ###
09.13.2005	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) announced $35 million in Houston-area port security funding in the recent round of Port Security Grant funding and applauded the significant record amount of resources dedicated to the protection of the Houston Ship Channel and its infrastructure. We have worked hard to explain our critical infrastructure to the Department of Homeland Security, said Congressman Gene Green. Our local governments and business prepared good grant applications. After several disappointing rounds of grant announcements, our work is starting to pay off. Congressman Green held a Port Security Grants Workshop at the Port of Houston in January 2005 with Ken Concepcion, Director of the Port Security Grant Program for the Department of Homeland Security. Approximately 100 representatives of the private sector, the Port of Houston, the U.S. Coast Guard, and other local agencies attended. Everyone was confused about what the federal governments priorities were in these grants, continued Congressman Gene Green. So we held a workshop to get some good answers and get everyone on the same page. Harris County received a combined total of $17,016,895 for security boats, radars, cameras, underwater sonar, a bomb disruption robot, and radiation detectors. The Port of Houston Authority received a combined total of $14,550,908 for card readers, cameras, gates, lights, security stations, and video software. The Port Terminal Railroad Association (PTRA) received $1,080,000 for cameras and explosive detection systems. Private Sector facilities along the Houston Ship Channel received $2,677,000 mostly for security cameras and gates at facilities. Public and private sector entities in Beaumont, Port Arthur, Freeport, and Texas City also received additional funding separate for the Houston area funding. Hurricane Katrina showed that the nation depends on the energy and petrochemical infrastructure of the Gulf Coast, continued Congressman Gene Green. The Houston areas concentration of critical energy facilities is equal or even greater than in the New Orleans area. We must protect these assets from terrorists. While this is a huge step, we are not all the way there, concluded Congressman Gene Green. The Port of Houston and Harris County did very well in this round, but the private sector will continue to need attention. $2.7 million will help eight of our facilities, but we have many more facilities that are unfunded. We cannot stop our efforts to protect our citizens and the nations energy security. ###
09.12.2005	Houston, TX Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) thanked Health & Human Services (HHS) Secretary Mike Leavitt for his facilitation in the awarding of grants to establish 26 new health center sites in areas impacted by Hurricane Katrina. Earlier last week Congressman Gene Green also introduced legislation to authorize HHS to fully fund Medicaid benefits for Louisiana evacuees, to help relieve the financial burden imposed by sheltering victims of hurricane Katrina. We have been working very close with Secretary Leavitt in relief efforts, said Congressman Gene Green. This money is dearly needed and it will be put to good use and will assist in the aid of thousands of evacuees not just in Texas but in other states that have welcomed our brothers and sisters from Louisiana. Approximately $2.3 million in fiscal year 2005 funds will go to assist in getting health care resources up and running quickly in disaster areas and neighboring states treating evacuees from the storm ravaged Gulf Coast. Congressman Gene Green has been a long time supporter of this initiative and has advocated for the establishment of these health center sites. Houston alone will receive funds for four sites. The organizations that will receive the funds already won grants to create new health centers through a competitive application process, but the initial distribution of funds was set for December. Without Secretary Leavitts involvement we would not have seen these funds until December, continued Congressman Gene Green. He saw the gravity of the situation that we find ourselves in and has allowed funding to commence immediately so that we can use these resources. Congressman Gene Green has also introduced H.R. 3671, which would authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide 100 percent of the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) under Medicaid for out of state medical assistance furnished to hurricane evacuees during a declared public health emergency. In an effort to provide these individuals with necessary health care, the State of Texas has generously eased eligibility criteria for Medicaid enrollment, continued Congressman Gene Green. Under current law, however, the State of Texas is still responsible for 39 percent of the cost of evacuees care under Medicaid. This is why I introduced this legislation. Texas has a big heart but unfortunately we dont have deep enough pockets, we can barely keep up with our own states Medicaid needs ###
09.08.2005	Houston, TX Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) introduced legislation to authorize the Federal Government to fully fund Medicaid benefits for Louisiana evacuees, to help relieve the financial burden imposed by sheltering victims of hurricane Katrina. H.R. 3671 would authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide 100 percent of the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) under Medicaid for out of state medical assistance furnished to hurricane evacuees during a declared public health emergency. We are known as the friendship state and this is a name we pride ourselves in, said Congressman Gene Green. The State of Texas has welcomed approximately 250,000 hurricane evacuees with open arms and has taken every conceivable measure to provide them with the food, shelter and medical attention they need. In an effort to provide these individuals with necessary health care, the State of Texas has generously eased eligibility criteria for Medicaid enrollment, continued Congressman Gene Green. Under current law, however, the State of Texas is still responsible for 39 percent of the cost of evacuees care under Medicaid. In a National disaster this just doesnt seem fair for Texas. On Wednesday, September 7, 2005, Congressman Gene Green authored a letter to the chairmen and ranking members of the appropriations committee in order to request that a 100 percent Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) be applied to health care services provided under state Medicaid programs to evacuees from the regions affected by Hurricane Katrina. Later that evening Congressman Gene Green introduced H.R. 3671, which would give authorization to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide 100 percent of the cost of Medicaid being provided to the thousands of evacuees that are now stationed in Texas. I felt that we needed to have some assurance by the Federal Government on this one, continued Congressman Gene Green. If we can make sure that the cost of Medicaid will be fully taken care of I believe that there will be no red tape to cut through in the end. We want to give the best assistance we can to our neighbors from Louisiana, but we can barely handle our own states Medicaid need." ###
09.07.2005	Houston, TX - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), today received notice from the Federal Communications Commission stating that the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau (WTB) and Consumer & Governmental Affairs Bureau (CGB) have taken steps to ensure that wireless service providers do not improperly disconnect consumers displaced by Hurricane Katrina because they are unable to pay their bills. Id like to thank the FCC for the work they have done, said Congressman Gene Green. They have made a great contribution to the people that have been affected by Hurricane Katrina. This is a time of unselfishness and a time when we try to do the best we can to help those in need and the FCC along with the WTB and CGB have answered that call. Wireless telephones are often the only way loved ones can find evacuees. On Tuesday, September 6, 2005, Congressman Gene Green authored a letter to CTIA president Steve Largent and the FCC, which was signed by members of the Houston delegation from both sides of the aisle, asking for a grace period extension for disaster area wireless phone customers. Wireless customers from the disaster areas now in the Astrodome and George R. Brown Convention Center had reported disconnection from their wireless phones. We know that the wireless industry has been impacted by this disaster and is taking action in the relief effort, continued Congressman Gene Green. This is why we asked FCC and CTIA to encourage all member companies to take all necessary steps to extend grace periods to the accounts of the people that have been so greatly affected by Hurricane Katrina. Hurricane Katrina displaced hundreds of thousands of residents of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama, and many thousands of these customers rely on their wireless service during this difficult time to remain in touch with loved ones, said FCC spokesman. Based on the representations of a number of wireless carriers serving consumers displaced by the hurricane, WTB and CGB understand that the common practice in the wireless industry at this time is to continue providing service to displaced people who cannot pay their bills in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. I appreciate the commitment by the wireless industry, concluded Congressman Gene Green. I also appreciate the efforts of the FCC to ensure that they honor their commitment. The WTB and CGB, have required all licensees of wireless services serving consumers affected by the hurricane to submit a report no later than Thursday, September 8, 2005 verifying their compliance with the standard industry practice of maintaining service to people displaced by Hurricane Katrina despite failure to pay bills. ###
09.06.2005	Houston, TX - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), today called on Steve Largent, President of Cellular Telecommunications & Internet Association (CTIA) to assist in getting a grace period extension for disaster area customers. The reality of the matter is that wireless phones are really the only lifeline to family members that these individuals have at this point, said Congressman Gene Green. Some of the individuals that are here in Houston now, have lost everything and they are attempting to find some normalcy by trying to connect with friends and loved ones. Wireless customers from the disaster areas now in the Astrodome and George R. Brown Convention Center are reporting disconnected wireless phones. We know that the wireless industry has been impacted by this disaster and is taking action in the relief effort, continued Congressman Gene Green. This is why we are asking CTIA to encourage all member companies to take all necessary steps to extend grace periods to the accounts of the people that have been so greatly affected by Hurricane Katarina. This is a time when we all must come together, concluded Congressman Gene Green. Every little bit helps and maintaining the lines of communication open to the victims of Katrina is crucial during this time when they are trying to regroup. Along with author Congressman Gene Green the following individuals have signed on to the letter: Mayor Bill White Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson(R-TX)Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) Congressman Al Green (TX-9)Congressman Tom DeLay (TX-22) Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee (TX-18)Congressman John Culberson (TX-7) Congressman Micheal McCaul (TX-10)Congressman Tedd Poe (TX-2) ###
09.02.2005	Houston,TX. Congressman Gene Green released the following statement in response to Hurricane Katrina that has devastated the lives of many families and individuals in parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama: My prayers and thoughts are with those affected by this natural disaster who must now focus on recovery and restoring their lives. I applaud the efforts of all of the disaster relief workers and I am especially proud of the City of Houston, Harris County and surrounding communities for stepping up to assist fellow Americans with obtaining shelter, food, clothing, health care and other necessities. Visiting the Reliant Astrodome complex for the last two days shows that this is a work in progress. No book has been written on how to respond to such a massive relocation effort; however, we will continue to work together with federal and local agencies, communities, churches, and others to provide information and assistance to help aid the storm victims and their families. My office has sent letters to officials at FEMA and HUD requesting that they coordinate efforts to transition those in shelters and hotels into temporary housing. We will continue to work with these and other federal agencies to meet the needs of those who have displaced by Hurricane Katrina. Note: Our office has put together helpful information for storm victims, their families and for those wishing to volunteer to help (attachment below). HURRICANE KATRINAHELPFUL INFORMATION FOR EVACUEES AND DISASTER VICTIMS APPLYING FOR DISASTER ASSISTANCE: Register with FEMA by calling 1-800-621-3362 (FEMA) or TTY 1-800-462-7585 for speech and hearing impaired. You may also register online on the FEMA website, www.fema.gov SOCIAL SECURITY INFORMATION for PEOPLE AFFECTED by HURRICANE KATRINA For individuals receiving social security benefits, the Social Security Administration has efforts in place to ensure that monthly payments are issued to all beneficiaries. Those who have not received their monthly social security benefit can go to any Social Security office and request an immediate payment. For information on the nearest Social Security office, please call 1-800-772-1213 (TTY 1-800-325-0778). OTHER USEFUL NUMBERS FOR SHELTER, DONATIONS and VOLUNTEER INFORMATION: United Way Helpline 2-1-1 or 713-957-4357 (HELP) The Houston Food Bank 713-223-3700 City of Houston Volunteer Opportunities 713-437-6165 Harris County Citizen Corps281-564-6669 Salvation Army 713-752-0677 or 1-800-253-1868 American Red Cross 1-866-GET-INFO or 713-313-5480 Disaster Welfare Inquiries (Missing Persons) 713-313-1628 ###
08.17.2005	Houston, TX - Today, Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) toured Baylor College of Medicine's new Center for Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine as part of the effort in advocating embryonic stem cell research. Green hopes his presence will help stimulate public support and federal funding. Congressman Green was joined by Dr. William Brinkley, dean of the Baylor College of Medicine Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Dr. Wayne Riley, vice president and vice dean of health affairs and governmental relations at BCM, Dr. Peggy Goodell, associate professor of hematology-oncology and Nina P. Brown a long time advocate of stem cell research and member or Texans for Advancement of Medical Research, Parkinsons Action Network and Houston Area Parkinson Society. Embryonic stem cells are unique in that they have the ability to act as replacement cells for cells that have been destroyed or damaged as the result of disease, said Congressman Green. Despite being faced with life-threatening diseases, Americans all across our country refuse to give up hope that medical research will find cures. Embryonic stem cell research can turn that hope into reality. Dr. Peggy Goodell, acting director of the stem cell center at BCM, showed Green her latest findings in her adult stem cell research while Dr. Thomas Zwaka, an assistant professor at the center, exhibited technology used in his embryonic stem cell laboratory. "We are proud to have our stem cell center on the forefront of regenerative medicine research and are delighted to host Congressman Green for his visit to our BCM facility," said Dr. William Brinkley, senior vice president of graduate sciences and dean of biomedical sciences at BCM. "Part of our mission is to educate the public on the technology used in stem cell research and to explain the fundamental science behind it."Every day we delay this promising research puts the cure one day further into the future, added Nina Brown. Medical science has made a great deal of progress over the years-- iron lungs are now a thing of the past. I want to be able to play with my grandchildren. I dont want them to remember that their Grandma couldnt move or talk or smile. ###
08.13.2005	Houston, TX- On Saturday, August 13, 2005, Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas), hosted his 10th Annual Immunization Day. The event took place even as the latest report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention gave Houston a low score in immunization rates. Immunizations are one of the most important disease prevention steps we can take to protect our children, said Congressman Green. I hope that people will take advantage of our Immunization Day. Its a benefit for our children and our community. Congressman Green along with Dr. Eduardo Sanchez of the Texas Health Commission held a press conference at 10:00 AM at Carrillo Elementary in order to discuss the importance of child immunization. This was Congressman Gene Greens 10th Anniversary of holding the Immunization Day. Every year three elementary schools are selected to host the event. For the last several years three healthcare groups have helped in making Immunization Day a success: The Harris County Public Health and Environmental Services, Humble Clinic; The Almatha Clark Taylor School Based Clinic in Galena Park ISD; and the Rusk School Health Promotions Project Clinic in HISD. We couldnt do all of this on our own, said Congressman Green. We have the incredible support of some great health clinics and their staff, and I am grateful for their help and support and I know that the many families that we help here are appreciative. The Immunization Day event was held at the following schools: Saturday, August 13th from 9:00 A.M. 1:00 P.M. Carrillo Elementary School960 S. WaysideHouston ISD Green Valley Elementary13350 WoodforestGalena Park ISD Oleson Elementary School12345 Vickery StreetAldine ISD ###
08.03.2005	Houston, TX-Today, Congressman Gene Green (Houston-D) sent a letter to the City of Houston Mayor Bill White asking him to demand the City of Houston Public Works Department move quicker on the right of way acquisition for the Central Street Bridge over the Union Pacific line south of the Manchester neighborhood. A current news report concerning the long delays in response time to 911 calls by emergency services in the Manchester areas due to stopped trains sparked a bit of a disturbance in the Congressional office of Congressman Gene Green. We have literally sent a number of letters in the past asking the City if we could be of any assistance, said Congressman Green. We understand the Mayor has his hands full, but lives are at risk, so we are asking him to personally interfere. Congress has already provided the funding for the solution to this problem, continued Congressman Green. We just need the solution implemented. Unfortunately it is out of my hands but I know that if he focuses on this crucial issue, as he has done for other projects, we can end these red-tape delays. Necessary federal funding for the Central Street Bridge project was secured in the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century of 1998. We need the Central Street Bridge built, said Congressman Green. We have had the funding for this project for seven years. We need Mayor White to go one step further and really push this project forward, and I think he can do it. ###
08.01.2005	Houston, TX- Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will host a series of town hall meetings and events located in your neighborhood, throughout the month of August. Our past town hall meetings have been great successes, said Congressman Gene Green. Not only does it give me an opportunity to speak with our constituents, it also gives me an opportunity to listen and hear their concerns. Congressman Green will hold his town hall meetings in the following locations: Monday, August 15th @ 7:00 p.m.Evelyn J. Churchill Community Centerin conjunction w/ Galena Manor Civic Club, 1508 Hunter Street Wednesday, August 17th @ 10:00 a.m.Senior Citizens Issues ForumNortheast Community Center, James Driver Park, 10918 Bentley Wednesday, August 17th @ 6:30 p.m.Aldine Y.O.U.T.H. Center, 4700 Aldine Mail Rt. Thursday, August 18th @ 7:00 p.m.Stanaker Library, 611 Macario Garciain conjunction w/ East End Civic Club Saturday, August 20th @ 9:00 a.m.USW Local 4227 Union Hall704 Pasadena Freeway, Pasadena Saturday, August 20th @ 11:00 a.m.Sterling Municipal Library, Mary Elizabeth Wilbanks Ave.Baytown Monday, August 22nd @ 7:00 p.m.Northline Park HPD Storefront, 392 West Little York Tuesday, August 23rd @ 7:00 p.m.HPD East Freeway Storefront, 12001-A East Freeway ###
08.01.2005	Houston, TX- On Tuesday, Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) will attend the Twenty Second Annual National Night Out in Houston. This annual event involves communities uniting and hosting a variety of special events such as block parties, cookouts and parades just to name a few in order to show solidarity within the community to fight and prevent crime. This is a great opportunity for local law enforcement and communities to really come together to make our neighborhoods safe for our families, said Congressman Green. I have always believed in the proverb that says: It takes a village to raise a child. These are our communities and our families and its just great to come out here and see the involvement and enthusiasm that these events bring. Other activities that accompany the National Night Out include: Heighten awareness of drug and crime prevention efforts Generate support and participation in crime prevention efforts Strengthen neighborhood spirit and police community relations Send a message to criminals to let them know that neighborhoods are organized and fighting back Congressman Gene Green will attend the following National Night Out community meetings: 22ND NATIONAL NIGHT OUT: TUESDAY, August 2, 2005 6:00PM Manchester Civic Club Hartman Community Center 9311 East Ave. P Houston, TX 6:30PM Pecan Park Civic Club Ingrando Park Community Center 7302 Keller Houston, TX 7:00PM Reveille/Park Place Civic Club Hidden Oaks Bed & Breakfast 7808 Dixie Drive Houston, TX 7:30PM Meadowbrook Civic Club Glenbrook Park 8201 N. Bayou Drive Houston, TX ###
07.26.2005	Washington, D.C.-Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas) released the following statement on the launching of the Discovery Shuttle. While we will never forget the men and women who lost their lives onboard Challenger and most recently Columbia, NASA has spent over two years reviewing safety measures and structural integrity of the current space fleet so that we can safely return to flight. From the pioneering Mercury missions, to the Apollo voyages to the moon, to the construction of the revolutionary International Space Station, Americas astronauts have boldly gone where no man has gone before. Our scientific understanding, quality of life, and ability to imagine a better future have been greatly increased by the brave men and women who volunteer and are selected for these difficult missions. NASAs mission is one of exploration, discovery and innovation. The innovation of new technology and the continued understanding of our planet and solar system has lead to many advances in science that have benefited our country and our economy. These brave men and women are an inspiration not only to me but to millions of school children that watched this launch today from their desks, its a momentous occasion. NASAs return to flight will inspire students to be the next generation of astronauts and scientists. Let us keep them in our prayers and may these brave men and women do great work and more importantly may they return safely to their families and to their country. We are very proud. ###
07.22.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) usually goes home on the weekends to Houston. This weekend is an exception, Congressman Green along with the Houston Astros and members of the Texas Congressional Delegation will visit with soldiers at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. The Astros are in Washington, D.C. completing a four game series against the Washington Nationals. The Houston Astros will first visit with soldiers in the physical and occupational therapy wing of the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. The Astros and the Texas Congressional Delegation will host a down-home Texas style barbeque for the soldiers and their families at the Mologne House, a part of the Walter Reed campus. I worked part time at the old Colt 45s stadium while growing up in Houston, continued Congressman Green. This ball club has inspired thousands of young people, me included and its amazing that now Im still inspired by their patriotism. They wanted to come visit our brave men and women at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and the National Naval Medical Center, Bethesda. The Astros are a class act. I have been to Walter Reed many times to support our troops, concluded Congressman Green. But, Im sure they would rather see Cy Young winner Roger Clemens than a member of Congress. ###
07.21.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) today issued the following statement regarding the effects of Social Security Privatization on the Latino community: As has been widely discussed, Social Security disproportionately benefits the Latino community, said Congressman Green. The progressive structure of Social Security and social insurance aspect of the program keeps a higher percentage of Latinos out of poverty than any other demographic. Because Latinos tend to earn less over their lifetimes, have larger families, are more prone to disability, and live longer, Social Security becomes critical to the livelihood of Latino families throughout America. Unfortunately, the Administrations plans to privatize social security would destroy the progressive structure of the program, put the entire program in jeopardy of collapsing, and throw many Latino families below the poverty line. Democrats will fight to protect Latino families, and will put forth policies that will help more Latinos rise out of poverty, rather than spend our time putting more Latinos into poverty. Currently, Social Security keeps Latino seniors poverty rates down by two-thirds. If the Administration is successful in its attempt to destroy Social Security, it will take us back to the day when half of Latino seniors lived under the poverty line, continued Congressman Green. Under Social Security privatization, 51.6% of Mexican seniors would fall into poverty, up from 20.1% now, and 53.7% of Cuban-American seniors would face a similar fate in the Latino community. The number of people kept out of poverty by social security is astounding, and with the reduction in benefits or outright destruction of the program, poverty would be especially widespread throughout the Latino community. Further, because Latinos earn less, on average, than other populations - $21,600 versus $27,500 for the general population Latinos benefit from the progressive structure of Social Security, concluded Congressman Green. For example, Social Security replaces approximately 56% of a low-wage workers earnings compared to 35% for high-wage workers. Private accounts would eliminate this advantage, as well as the existing disability and spousal benefits offered through the Social Security system. ###
07.18.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) is pleased to announce a $2,970,575 grant award to the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County and the Texas DOT (Bolivar Roads Ferry) by the U.S. department of Homeland Securitys Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness (SLGCP). This grant is made possible by the Fiscal Year 2005 Transit Security Grant Program (TSGP) Award. TSGP provides funding for the protection of regional transit systems and the commuting public from terrorism, especially explosives and non-conventional threats that would cause major loss of life and severe disruption. With the recent attack in London, this award could not come at a better time, said Congressman Green. We are a diverse city. We are the fourth largest city in the U.S. and the largest city in Texas. We are home to the Port of Houston and are considered the energy capital of the world. I know that we need to secure our ports and our infrastructure so that an attack similar to the one in London never happens here in Houston. Funding by the TSGP is provided to the owner and operator of some of the nations most critical infrastructures such as rail transit systems, intra-city bus systems and ferry systems. Houston has all three systems in place. The Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County received $825,000 for light rail and $900,000 for intra-city bus systems. The cities Texas DOT (Bolivar Roads Ferry) received $1, 245,575. This money is a good start at securing our great city, continued Congressman Green. There is still much work to be done, but with grants coming in like these the citizens of Houston can rest assured that we will do everything in our power to keep our city safe. ###
07.12.2005	Washington, DC - Today Congressman Gene Green lashed out at House leadership over their refusal to allow a vote on an amendment that the Congressman brought before the rules committee on Monday evening. Congressman Green submitted an amendment to H.R. 739, The Occupational Safety & Health Small Business Day in Court Act (OSHA). The amendment would require employers to list contract workers on their injury site log. This was not a major expense or an inconvenience to employers, said Congressman Green. Yet, the Rules Committee defeated an amendment that would have allowed my amendment to be considered by a 9 to 4 vote. The vote was defeated by a party line vote even though the bill filed had Republican support. Currently, all deaths and injuries are reported to OSHA. Unfortunately, only those involving direct employees of the site-controlling company are required to be reported by law. Back in March 23, 2005, fifteen people lost their lives during an explosion and fire at a BP refinery in Texas City, continued Congressman Green. Unfortunately, since the fifteen men were contract workers and because current law does not require companies to report those deaths, the BP site will look just as it did the day before March 23. When investigations of the catastrophe began it was quickly discovered that it is extremely difficult to assess the safety record of such facilities due to the way employers are required to keep site logs of injuries on the worksite. This is not the first time OSHA has run into the problem. In 1989 a plant in Pasadena exploded and killed 23 workers and injured 232. OSHA called for a study to be done on the use of contract labor in the petrochemical industry. The current data reporting procedures did not capture the full range of injury and illness due to the statistics inclusion of contract workers. The study found that there was a Lack of Adequate Injury and Incident Data. Thats a shame. This amendment does not require industry to do anything more than record injuries and accidents on their site log, concluded Congressman Green. Regardless of whether the employee is a contract worker or not, every man should be accounted for. I am not here to bash employers or OSHA. The bottom line is people have the right to know the facts. ###
06.29.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (TX-D) joined all 206 House Democrats, in calling on President Bush to address the $1 billion shortfall in veterans health care funding identified by the Administration last week. Additional funding is urgently needed today to care for troops returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as the heroes from former conflicts who rely upon the VA for their health care, Members wrote to Bush in the letter. Congressman Green and other Members asked Bush to submit a supplemental appropriations bill to Congress for FY2005 adding at least $1.3 billion to address the shortfall in veterans health care funding now and also called on the President to submit budgets that more accurately meet the needs of our veterans in the future. What is even more troubling is that funding for veterans health care beyond 2007 is cut significantly below the amount needed merely to account for inflation. At a time of war, funding for veterans must be made a clear and unmistakable priority. Members wrote. Last Friday, the Washington Post reported that the Bush Administration acknowledged that it is short at least $1 billion for covering current needs at the Department of Veterans Affairs this year. The shortfall emerged during an administration midyear budget review and was acknowledged only during lengthy questioning of Jonathan B. Perlin, VA undersecretary for health, by House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Steve Buyer (R-Ind.). The VA funding shortfall is unacceptable. There has been legislation introduced in the last two Congresses to make Veterans healthcare funding mandatory, said Congressman Green. But the House leadership has refused to bring these bills up for a vote. When VA funding is left up to the whims of lawmakers and used as a bargaining chip in reducing federal spending, this type of situation is always a possibility. The Department of Veterans Affairs has a lot of explaining to do, continued Congressman Green. President Bush can immediately correct this behavior by asking Congress to approve an additional $1.3 billion for our veterans. Our veterans and our troops deserve nothing less ###
06.23.2005	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Gene Green released the following statement concerning the current movement to reform Social Security and the impact it will have on the Latino population. The privatization of Social Security will disproportionately harm the Latino community. With 45% of Latino seniors relying on Social Security for 90% or more of their income the Social Security safety net is of critical importance to the Latino Community. Social Security has been an incredibly effective anti poverty program because the benefit formula replaces a high percentage of low income earners wages, giving those most in need, will receive money to buy groceries and continue to pay their bills. Unfortunately, the Administrations privatization plan will fray the Social Security safety net and shove millions of Americans dependent on Social Security below the poverty line. Social Security is a critical government program for the Hispanic community, as 81 percent of Hispanic seniors currently have no pension benefits, while 72 percent have no savings for retirement. Three-fourths of Hispanic seniors rely on Social Security for a majority of their income; an attack on the Social Security safety net is an attack on Americas Latino elderly. The Hispanic population, on average, is also a decade younger than the rest of America. Therefore, Hispanics have a huge stake in the Administrations plans to partially-privatize Social Security because younger generations have the most to lose under the proposal. At $655 per month, the average Social Security benefit for Hispanics is already a third lower than the average monthly benefit for the nation at-large, which is $955. Latinos on average earn less than other populations. The average Latino accumulated wealth at retirement is $200,000, markedly lower than any other major demographic. With low amounts of savings, Latinos tend to rely more heavily on Social Security to get them through each month. Even the Government Accounting Office (GAO) warned against disrupting the program. GAO stated that disrupting Social Security benefit formula was likely to disproportionately affect equity for minorities. Disability, i.e. survivors and dependents benefits also will be affected if any changes occur to the structure of the program. Democrats, on the other hand, do not believe that the way to reform our countrys greatest tool to combat poverty is to strip out the very provisions that have kept millions that have kept millions out of poverty. We will fight to keep the security in Social Security and maintain the program as a strong safety net for Americas Latino population ###
06.21.2005	Washington, DC - {Today, Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) announced that every school district in the 29th Congressional District had received an increase in funding for Title I of the U.S. Education Code. The District schools received a $4,614,054.00 increase in Title I funds as compared to last year. Texas received a $65,629,924 increase in Title I funds bringing it to $ 1,176,335,457 for Fiscal Year 2005. The purpose of Title I, Part A is to ensure that all children receive a fair, equal, and significant opportunity to get a high-quality education and reach, at a minimum, proficiency on challenging State academic achievement standards and state academic assessments. Title I funding goes to programs such as Targeted Assistance Programs, School Assistance Programs, Migrant Education Prevention and Intervention Programs, Comprehensive School Reform, Teacher and Principal Training and Recruiting, Enhancing Education Through Technology, Language Instruction for Limited English Proficient and Immigrant Students, Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities, Innovative Programs and Rural and Low-Income School Program. Title I funds benefit students with issues such as reading assistance or learning English as their second language. Among other benefits the funds provide schools with the ability to increase instructional time for students, and can help parents get and education if they do not have a high school diploma or a GED. While the Governor vetos public education funding and the legislature in Special Session, we know that our school district will receive additional funds for our children, said Congressman Green. Title I brings much relief and assistance to so many of our children and their parents. Im really glad that we were able to announce this additional money. }
06.21.2005	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) announced that every school district in the 29th Congressional District had received an increase in funding for Title I of the U.S. Education Code. The District schools received a $4,614,054.00 increase in Title I funds as compared to last year. Texas received a $65,629,924 increase in Title I funds bringing it to $ 1,176,335,457 for Fiscal Year 2005. The purpose of Title I, Part A is to ensure that all children receive a fair, equal, and significant opportunity to get a high-quality education and reach, at a minimum, proficiency on challenging State academic achievement standards and state academic assessments. Title I funding goes to programs such as Targeted Assistance Programs, School Assistance Programs, Migrant Education Prevention and Intervention Programs, Comprehensive School Reform, Teacher and Principal Training and Recruiting, Enhancing Education Through Technology, Language Instruction for Limited English Proficient and Immigrant Students, Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities, Innovative Programs and Rural and Low-Income School Program. Title I funds benefit students with issues such as reading assistance or learning English as their second language. Among other benefits the funds provide schools with the ability to increase instructional time for students, and can help parents get and education if they do not have a high school diploma or a GED. While the Governor vetos public education funding and the legislature in Special Session, we know that our school district will receive additional funds for our children, said Congressman Green. Title I brings much relief and assistance to so many of our children and their parents. Im really glad that we were able to announce this additional money. ###
06.16.2005	Washington, DC - Today Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) expressed concern over Metropolitan Transit Authoritys (Metro) revised Solutions Transit System Plan that was announced on Monday. Metros original November 2003 Referendum authorized a plan for the construction of four light rail routes throughout the City of Houston. The 2003 Referendum passed with a 52 percent vote. The necessary votes came from those that use public transportation the most, said Congressman Green. The north, east and south sides of Metros areas. I am happy that Metro may receive Light Rail federal funding, continued Congressman Green. But we cannot ignore our transit user communities, which rely most heavily on public transportation to get to and from work and school. If you drive around Houston its as clear as night and day, when it comes to what areas of town use public transportation the most. The new plan would put train cars first on a route from the University of Houston across the city and ending at The Galleria. The rest of the lines (North, Harrisburg, Southeast) will receive Bus Rapid Transit, a train-like bus, that will then be replaced with light-rail. Congressman Gene Green spoke with Metro Chairman David S. Wolff earlier today about his concerns with the new plan. Chairman Wolff has made a commitment to me, that the North Line and Harrisburg lines will not be left out of light rail, said Congressman Green. They will lay tracks as scheduled and through local and federal funds, we will get the train cars. Chairman Wolff said that the UH-Galleria line is going to be the first line to get trains out of necessity by the Federal Transit Administration, not because of local politics, said Congressman Green. I will meet with the FTA in order to verify that. The biggest problem with Metro is that they failed to inform the local elected officials of the details before they began acting as if it was agreed to, continued Congressman Green. Metro historically has a credibility problem with elected official and our constituents. I plan to meet with Metro leaders next week in Washington in order to get to the bottom of this. ###
06.15.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) announced today that he has re-introduced the Ending the Medicare Waiting Period Act of 2005. This legislation (HR 2869) would phase out the 24 month waiting period that individuals with disabilities must endure before they can receive health insurance under the Medicare program. The current Medicare law forces individuals with disabilities to wait at least two years for Medicare coverage at a time when health care is most critical, said Congressman Gene Green. Unfortunately, however, the Medicare waiting period is just one of three waiting periods that disabled Americans must endure before gaining Medicare eligibility. First, they must wait for the Social Security Administration to make a disability determination. At that point, individuals with disabilities must wait five months to begin receiving SSDI payments. Only once the SSDI payments begin does the clock start on the 24 month waiting period for Medicare coverage. It is shameful for our country to withhold necessary health coverage when disabled Americans need it most. When Congress expanded the Medicare program in 1972 to assist individuals with severe disabilities, it included a provision stipulating that individuals must wait 24 months from the date of their SSDI determination to receive Medicare benefits. The Ending the Medicare Waiting Period Act would phase out the waiting period over ten years. In the meantime, the legislation creates a process by which individuals with life-threatening diseases can gain exemption from the waiting period. Currently there are six million Americans under the age of 65 that are subject to the Medicare waiting period, Green said. While most of these individuals have some form of health insurance enabling them to seek necessary health care, an estimated 400,000 Americans in the waiting period are currently uninsured. By eliminating the Medicare waiting period, this legislation would provide individuals with disabilities that are uninsured, access to the quality health care that will enable them to remain active, productive members of society. According to the Commonwealth Fund, the elimination of the Medicare Waiting Period would achieve $1.8 billion in annual Medicaid savings. The Ending the Medicare Waiting Period Act has been endorsed by more than forty health care organizations, including the Alzheimers Association, Families USA, the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, the National Organization for Rare Diseases, and Special Olympics. Sen. Jeff Bingaman and Sen. Mike DeWine have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Congressman Gene Green extends his appreciation to the 21Members of Congress who demonstrated their commitment to the Ending the Medicare Waiting Period Act of 2005 by becoming original co-sponsors of the bill: Rep Baca, Joe [D-CA-43] - 6/13/2005 *Rep Brown, Sherrod [D-OH-13] - 6/13/2005 *Rep Capps, Lois [D-CA-23] - 6/13/2005 *Rep DeGette, Diana [D-CO-1] - 6/13/2005 *Rep Doggett, Lloyd [D-TX-25] - 6/13/2005 * Rep Farr, Sam [D-CA-17] - 6/13/2005 * Rep Gonzalez, Charles A. [D-TX-20] - 6/13/2005 * Rep Grijalva, Raul M. [D-AZ-7] - 6/13/2005 *Rep Hinojosa, Ruben [D-TX-15] - 6/13/2005 * Rep Jackson-Lee, Sheila [D-TX-18] - 6/13/2005 *Rep Lee, Barbara [D-CA-9] - 6/13/2005 *Rep McDermott, Jim [D-WA-7] - 6/13/2005 *Rep Ortiz, Solomon P. [D-TX-27] - 6/13/2005 * Rep Reyes, Silvestre [D-TX-16] - 6/13/2005 *Rep Ryan, Tim [D-OH-17] - 6/13/2005 *Rep Solis, Hilda L. [D-CA-32] - 6/13/2005 *Rep Stark, Fortney Pete [D-CA-13] - 6/13/2005 * Rep Strickland, Ted [D-OH-6] - 6/13/2005 *Rep Stupak, Bart [D-MI-1] - 6/13/2005 *Rep Towns, Edolphus [D-NY-10] - 6/13/2005 * ###
06.13.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green announced today the introduction of H.R. 2843, which would ban the transportation of hazardous material by trains conducted via remote control. Remote control trains are a relatively new technology that is still being studied by the Federal Railroad Association (FRA) in order to verify their safety. Studies released by the FRA have shown that this new technology has problems. Hazardous materials present very high safety and security risks, said Congressman Green. We cannot rely on an unproven, questionable new transportation technology to transport this material through our backyards. All federal investigations have raised serious concerns with remote control safety, continued Congressman Green. This bill is needed because hazardous materials have the highest safety and security risks, so they should be banned from remote control trains until proven safe. Congressman Green also released copies of letters he has sent to Union Pacific and BNSF railroads urging them to restrict remote control operations to their rail yards. A recent Federal Railroad Administration report raised questions about remote control rail safety. ###
05.26.2005	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Rep. Gene Green introduced the Vision Preservation Act, legislation to expand current federal vision and vision rehabilitation programs and to increase federal research into eye diseases. A co-chair of the Congressional Vision Caucus, Rep. Green was joined by his fellow Vision Caucus leaders Rep. Ilena Ros-Lehtinen, Rep. David Price and Rep. Pat Tiberi in introduction of the Vision Preservation Act. In my state of Texas, more than 370,000 people suffer from diabetic retinopathy. At least 90,000 Texans over 50 live with AMD. And cataracts affect more than 1.2 million people in my state, Green said. Yet we know that nearly half of all vision diseases are preventable. This legislation will put the federal resources in place to conduct critical research on eye diseases and provide for vision rehabilitation under Medicare in an effort to prevent and treat the vision diseases that afflict too many Americans. The Vision Preservation Act is a legislative response to the Vision Problems Action Plan, which was developed by Prevent Blindness America, the American Academy of Ophthalmology, the American Optometric Association, Lighthouse International and the National Alliance for Eye and Vision Research to address vision problems in the U.S. An estimated 80 million Americans have a potentially-blinding eye disease. The number of Americans who are blind or visually impaired is expected to double by 2030. Specifically, the Vision Preservation Act would expand federal research on eye diseases at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevent and the National Eye Institute (NEI), within the National Institutes of Health. The legislation also would expand current federal vision education and awareness programs and create an age-related macular degeneration (AMD) public education program at the NEI to increase awareness of AMD and stress the importance of early detection in preventing vision loss. Additionally, the legislation directs the Department of Health and Human Services to develop voluntary guidelines to ensure quality vision screenings. The Vision Preservation Act also provides for vision rehabilitation services under the Medicare program. The bill also authorizes a study on barriers faced by medically-underserved populations to vision services covered under Medicare, including vision rehabilitation.
05.26.2005	On Saturday, June 11, Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) will be hosting a citizenship workshop. This is a one-stop application processing opportunity for legal residents interested in obtaining their U.S. citizenship. The process consists of completing Form N400, taking photographs, and purchasing money orders for the application fee. The workshop will be held at Houston Community College-Northeast Campus at Northline Mall, Crosstimbers & I-45 North between 8:00 a.m. 3:00 p.m. A press event will be held at 10:00 a.m. followed by a walk-through of the applications process. Rep. Green, with the support of bilingual volunteers, representatives from United States Customs and Immigration Service (USCIS), Constable Victor Trevino, the League of United Latin American Citizens, and the National Association of Latino Elected Officials will help process applications from beginning to end. Eligibility for Legal Residents: Must be 18 years old Be a legal resident for no less then 5 years If you are married to a U.S. citizen, you must be a resident for no less then 3 years Document and Information an Applicant Needs: Legal resident card Dates of entry and exit of the U.S. and the date of when residency was established Information on your residency and employment for last 5 years Total cost of application fees $390.00 ($320.00 for the USCIS application fee and $70.00 for finger prints) Assisting people in becoming citizens of the United States has been one of the most rewarding experiences Ive had since becoming a Member of Congress, Green said. This event gives us a chance to help our legal residents achieve their dream of becoming a U.S. citizen. We not only provide a service, but more importantly, we increase community awareness about the importance of U.S. citizenship. For more information, please call 713-756-9429 ###
05.25.2005	Washington, DC - Late yesterday, the House of Representatives approved the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (H.R. 2419) by a vote of 416 to 13. The bill includes funding for three important ongoing Houston water projects. Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) secured funding in the House bill for the Houston Ship Channel deepening and widening project ($26 million), Hunting Bayou Federal flood control project ($500,000) and Greens Bayou Federal flood control project ($150,000) and will continue to work for additional funding during the House-Senate conference committee process. The Houston Ship Channel Deepening and Widening Project received $26 million in construction funding and $3.2 million for operations and maintenance. The Administrations budget requested $24 million and $3.2 million respectively. The bill ensures completion of the 45 foot channel and starts construction of barge lanes necessary for safety and environmental restoration work, said Green. I will continue to push for additional funds for the Ship Channel in conference with the Senate. Green expressed disappointment in the Operations and Maintenance funding: Nickel-and-diming operations and maintenance undermines the benefits of the investments we have made. Our channels can silt up quickly without maintenance dredging, reducing efficiency and safety. The Army Corps of Engineers capability for the Houston Ship Channel is $8.8 million, $5.6 million more than the $3.2 million in the Presidents budget and in the Committee bill. The Committees bill also includes $500,000 for Hunting Bayou and $150,000 for Greens Bayou, both of which were zeroed out in the Administrations budget. We saved these projects from the steep Administration budget cuts, Green said. We know from experience that Hunting and Greens Bayous are major flood risks and are crying out for investment to protect thousands of our homes and businesses. Construction for both Hunting and Greens Bayous is slated to begin in 2006. Final agreements on the projects are currently being negotiated between the Harris County Flood Control District and the Army Corps of Engineers. I am thankful that the Committee, in particular my colleague Congressman Chet Edwards (D-Waco), helped secure funding for these three projects, added Green. ###
05.13.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green released the following statement upon learning that Ellington Field was on the Department of Defense's list of recommendations to the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC). The recommendations for base closures and realignments presented to the BRAC Commission today by Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld will have a profound impact on military units in and around Houston. To begin with, the Department of Defense (DoD) plans to retire the 15 F-16s currently at Ellington Field. In order to preserve the homeland defense Air Sovereignty Alert, aircraft will be assigned from elsewhere and operate from Ellington on a rotational basis as tasked by US Northern Command. This is not the outcome we were anticipating. While there will still be the normal four aircrafts on alert at Ellington to protect Houston, we had worked to preserve all the F-16s and the current mission of the 147th. The economic benefit for the DoD will be minimal, as well. The estimated cost to implement this recommendation is $1.6 million, while the estimated annual savings will be $0.4 million, or $3.6 million over 20 years. With an annual budget of nearly $500 billion, the cost of maintaining the 147th would have been a fraction of a percentage of their annual budget. Security is our main concern. While this process will save the DoD several million dollars, we must ensure Houston is secure. The other major impact to the area from Secretary Rumsfelds recommendations will be an influx of units to a new Armed Forces Reserve Center with a Field Maintenance Shop in Houston. The Secretarys recommendations would close the United States Army Reserve Center in Pasadena, as well as move the Baytown, Beaumont, Port Arthur, Port Neches, Ellington Field and Orange, TX Army Reserve National Guard Readiness Centers to the new Armed Forces Reserve Center in Northwest Houston. I will work with the Houston Delegation to ensure effective air security for the Port of Houston, the Houston petrochemical complex, NASAs Johnsons Space Center, and the nearly five million people who reside in the nations fourth largest city. ###
05.06.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green is pleased to announce the winners of the 24th Annual Congressional Art Competition-- a national art contest for high school students from each Congressional District. On Monday, May 9, 2005 an award ceremony took place at Pasadena High School to recognize, Andrew Harris, the first place winner of the competition. Andrew Harris, a junior at Pasadena High School won first place, David Granados, a senior at Mac Arthur High School won second place; and Martha Escamilla, a sophomore at Mac Arthur High School, won third place. The winner will travel to Washington, DC in June to attend the Artistic Discovery" Ribbon Cutting Ceremony that recognizes the first place winners from across the country. Each young artist will be joined by their Member of Congress and his/her artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol through May 2006. It was difficult to select a winner from all the outstanding pieces that entered the competition this year, Green said. We have tremendous talent and creativity in our local schools, and this contest gives young artists an opportunity to showcase their work. Andrews piece will stand out as one of the best from around the country as it hangs in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, Green added. An Artistic Discovery, launched in 1982, is implemented by Members of Congress in Congressional Districts to recognize the artistic talent of high school students throughout the country. Southwest Airlines will provide free round-trip airfare between Houston and Washington for the first place winner and SBC will provide hotel accommodations. ###
04.22.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green met yesterday with Federal Transit Administrator Jennifer Dorn and other FTA officials regarding the progress of Houston METRORail and released an April 20, 2005 FTA letter detailing METROs progress and requirements for the future. Overall, the meeting between Congressman Green and Administrator Dorn focused on the need for close federal and local cooperation during the FTA New Starts process. We had a good discussion where FTA reaffirmed they will work closely with METRO to move our light rail plan forward. Administrator Dorn confirmed METRO has acted openly, honestly, and productively with FTA, said Green. Congressman Green and Administrator Dorn also discussed METROs fiscal year 2006 funding options. Administrator Dorn stated Congress decided how to divide the $122 million in Preliminary Engineering (PE) funding among the 22 recommended projects like METRORails North and Southeast Corridors. Our delegation needs to work together for our regions fair share of PE funding, said Green. The meeting then touched on METROs recent proposal for design build financing. FTA promised to work with METRO on design-build financing methods METRO can pursue under local and federal procurement law, continued Green. FTA staff cited Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Administrations Dulles airport extension as an example of such cooperation. Congressman Green also raised concerns with Administrator Dorn over FTAs proposed changes to FTAs cost-effectiveness rating system mentioned in her April 20th letter. FTA confirmed that METRO is close to the necessary Medium rating and has plenty of time to find new benefits and cost savings. I understand the need to adjust for inflation and other factors, but FTA needs to be flexible when changing the rules during the process. The North and Southeast Corridors ratings should reflect the overall system benefits they provide, rather than judging them in isolation, concluded Green. ###
04.18.2005	Houston, TX - Congressman Gene Green and the Greater Houston SAFE KIDS Coalition will host a free car seat check-up for families on Saturday, April 30 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., at Monument Chevrolet, 3940 Pasadena Freeway (225 at Beltway 8) Pasadena, TX. Certified child passenger safety technicians will check each car seat for recalls and teach families how to install their childrens seats correctly in the cars. While many parents are conscientious about keeping their children safe while traveling on the roads, they do not realize that if their car seat is not properly installed it will not be effective, said Rep. Green. We invite families to stop by to receive information on how to properly install their child safety child seats and to check if their children are correctly secured in their car seats. Since 1999, SAFE KIDS Greater Houston has helped more than 10,000 children ride more safely in their family cars. More than 90% of child safety seats inspected in Houston were used incorrectly, were damaged, or were inappropriate for the child. In the event of a collision, children riding in these seats would not have been fully protected and could have been seriously injured.
04.15.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) and Mayor John Manlove will announce at a press conference that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has designated the Pasadena Health Center a Federally-Qualified Health Center (FQHC). As a result of this designation, the Pasadena Health Center will receive $622,550 annually in federal funding to support its delivery of primary health care to uninsured and underinsured populations. This designation is the shot in the arm that our health center needed, said Congressman Green, who as a member of the Health Subcommittee advocated on behalf of the centers application. We have some of the highest rates of the uninsured in the nation; yet, until now, our area had only two FQHCs. This award to Pasadena Health Center takes us in the right direction to provide necessary primary health care to the low-income and uninsured in our community. Increased access to affordable health care is a concern for many of our community's residents. The Pasadena Health Center offers improvement in that area, said Mayor John Manlove, whose wife Gina chairs the clinic's board of directors. We're proud of what the Pasadena Health Center has been able to accomplish in such a short time, and of the city's involvement in this important project.
04.14.2005	Houston, TX - Congressman Gene Green in conjunction with the WorkSource will host the 3rd Annual North Channel Job Fair to be held on May 9 from 10:00 a.m. -2:00 p.m. at the Northshore Rotary Pavilion located at 14350 Wallisville Road, Houston, Texas. This years event will provide an opportunity for employing agencies to interview and recruit candidates in person and to promote their current job openings. Also job seekers will be offered assistance with interviewing skills and provided information that is needed to create a standard resume as well as receive helpful tips to revise their current resume. Last years event included more than 30 employers and attracted over 400 job seekers. Other participants in the event are the Northeast Houston Advisory Council, Partners In Power, Inc., North Channel ROC, Houston Police Department and Harris County Central Parks. ###
03.14.2005	Washington, DC - Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston) announced $14 million in funding for Clinton Drive reconstruction and $2 million for U.S. 90 construction as High Priority Projects in H.R. 3, the Transportation Equity Act, a Legacy for Users (TEA-LU). These two projects are very important for the greater Houston area. We are making concrete improvements to Houstons mobility, said Green. Along the Ship Channel, Clinton Drive is in severe need of a major overhaul. The stretch of the Clinton Drive project (total cost $35 to $54 million) runs from the Turning Basin at the Port of Houston to Federal Road, through an industrial area experiencing heavy levels of intermodal truck traffic carrying cargo. This section of road is in chronically poor condition as a result, causing cargo bottlenecks and serious safety concerns. Both commerce and the community need this stretch of Clinton Drive rebuilt to make it safer and more resistant to truck damage. Letters of support were provided by the then-Mayor of Houston Lee Brown, Harris County Judge Robert Eckels, the Houston-Galveston Area Council (HGAC), the Port of Houston, and the Texas Department of Transportation demonstrating broad cooperation for improving the intermodal infrastructure surrounding the Port of Houston. The final stretch of U.S. 90 has been awaiting construction for far too long, added Green. The true mobility potential of U.S. 90 cannot be reached until the freeway links up with I-10. I want to thank Congressman Ted Poe for working with us to the benefit of the greater East Harris County region. The second proposed project (total cost $35 million) will construct six main lanes of U.S. 90 from Hunting Bayou to Wallisville. Congressman Gene Green obtained an additional $1 million in dedicated funding for U.S. 90 in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Act. In H.R. 3, Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas) also contributed $2 million, bringing special Congressional funding to the $5 million requested by TXDOT to accelerate the project. The U.S. 90 improvements will fill the gap between Beltway 8 and Interstate 10, whereas currently U.S. 90 terminates at Beltway 8. U.S. 90 is a major east and west thoroughfare freeway for the East Harris County region. By completing this roadway improvement project, the areas mobility potential will be increased and further developed. The High Priority Projects in the bill allow Members of Congress to jumpstart important local projects of regional significance. The funding secured in H.R. 3 will be supplemented by further federal and local funding. ###
03.11.2005	Houston, TX- In response to the Administrations plan to partially privatize Social Security, U.S. Rep. Gene Green on Tuesday, March 29, 2005 will hold a town hall meeting to discuss the plan with constituents. The town hall is scheduled to begin at 10:00 a.m. at the Houston Community College-North East Campus, Codwell Hall located at 555 Community College Drive. I have serious reservations about the Administrations plan and I am committed to strengthening Social Security, said Green. Social Security faces long term challenges, but there is no crisis. The Social Security Trust Fund has accumulated more than $1.7 trillion in reserves that are held in Treasury bonds. According to the Congressional Budget Office, even if no changes are made, Social Security will be able to pay full benefits until 2052. We have time to come up with a bi-partisan solution that will strengthen the Social Security system for generations to come, added Green. Plans to privatize Social Security would undermine retirement security by cutting guaranteed benefits over 40% for future retirees, even for those who dont choose an account. Today, the average monthly benefit is $955, and without this money, nearly 50% of American seniors would be living in poverty. ###
02.08.2005	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) spoke out against the Bush Administrations fiscal year 2006 budget, calling the proposal bad for Texas and another example of the Administrations misguided priorities. Time and again, weve heard the President promise to cut the deficit in half, yet the budget he sent to Congress yesterday calls for yet another year of record-level deficits, Green said. Even worse, the President didnt give Congress or the American people the straight story in this budget when it failed to include $2 trillion in costs that his policy proposals, such as the Social Security privatization proposal, will impose on the federal budget. For the third year in a row, the Administrations budget forecasts record-level deficits, projecting a $427 billion deficit in fiscal year 2005. However, the Administrations deficit calculations did not take into account key elements of its policy agenda, such as the cost of Social Security privatization ($754 billion over 10 years) and costs to reform the Alternative Minimum Tax (at $642 billion over 10 years). Additionally, the budget calculations failed to take into account costs the country is guaranteed to incur, such as war costs (at least $384 billion over 10 years) and interest on the national debt created by these increased costs ($267 billion over 10 years). With this budget, the President is not only taking our country in the wrong fiscal direction, hes doing it on the backs of vulnerable Americans who rely on many of the domestic programs slashed by this budget, Green continued. The Presidents cuts in Medicaid alone will take away $2.7 billion in crucial Medicaid dollars over five years that the State of Texas could use to provide much-needed health care to our low-income individuals. Specifically, the Administrations budget calls for at least $45 billion in Medicaid cuts over five years. The Medicaid funding lost in the fifth year of this proposal would keep more than 111,000 Texas children and nearly 27,000 Texas seniors from receiving health insurance provided by Medicaid. The Administrations budget also cuts the following key programs: Community Access Program The budget eliminates this program, which has been instrumental in funding Gateway to Cares efforts to coordinate health care for Harris Countys uninsured and underinsured. First Responders The budget cuts first responder funding by 25 percent, providing only $820 million in fiscal year funds for grants that local fire, police and emergency-response agencies utilize in their homeland security efforts. Port Security Grants The budget eliminates the Port Security Grant program, forcing ports to compete with other transportation-related industries for critical federal homeland security dollars. Port Dredging and Flood Control Projects The budget cuts funding for the Army Corps of Engineers, which undertake Houstons dredging and flood control projects. The budget provides only $4.4 billion for the Army Corps, a 14 percent decrease from fiscal year 2005 levels. TRIO The budget eliminates the TRIO program, which provided $776,000 to colleges and universities in the 29th Congressional District benefiting roughly 2,300 low-income students through the Talent Search program alone. Trauma Funding The budget eliminates all trauma funding, including EMS for children, which supports operations at Houstons trauma hospitals. Oil and Gas Research and Development The budget cuts this Energy Department program by 76 percent, providing only $20 million in fiscal year 2006. ###
02.03.2005	Washington, DC - Rep. Gene Green today issued the following statement regarding Social Security's impact on the Latino community: Social Security, an enduring promise to Americas seniors and a bedrock of retirement security, is critically important to the Latino community. The program annually keeps 32.9% of Latinos 65 and older out of poverty. Its progressive benefits formula, guaranteed basic benefit, and cost of living adjustment, significantly benefits Latinos, who earn less, live longer, have higher disability rates, and are less likely to have additional sources of retirement income than other demographics of Americans. Without Social Security, over half of America's Latino elderly would live below the poverty line. Social Security is the most successful anti-poverty program ever established. Since its inception in 1936, Social Security has kept hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. Even with Social Security, the Latino poverty rate for persons over the age of 65, which stands at 21.6%, is more than double the national average of 10.1% for that age range, added Green. The progressive benefit formula, guaranteed basic benefit, and cost of living adjustments are elements of Social Security that, disproportionately, benefit Latinos. Social Security particularly helps Latinos, whose lifetime earnings are far lower than the national average, by replacing 57% of lifetime average wages per year for people considered low income workers, in contrast to 36% per year for high wage earners. The guaranteed basic benefit with a Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) ensures that millions of elderly Latinos and their spouses can provide for themselves without fear of inflation eating away their purchasing power. Democrats will fight to protect and preserve a stable and reliable program thats served generations; and will fight any attempt to replace it with a risky investment scheme that will result in benefits cut up to 50%. Democrats created Social Security; we have protected and reinforced the program, and we will always fight to strengthen and reinforce Social Security, concluded Green. ###
01.25.2005	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) has agreed to become co-chair of the Democratic Israel Working Group after being asked by Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Maryland) to take the place of late Rep. Robert Matsui, one of the founders of the group. The Democratic Israel Working Group promotes pro-Israel policy positions, leads outreach efforts to the Jewish community, and is a resource to the members of the Democratic Caucus. Congressman Matsui will be greatly missed. He worked to expand the United States trade relationship with Israel and counter security threats facing the U.S. and the Jewish State and deepen ties between the House Democratic caucus, said Green. It is with great honor that I will work as a co-chair of this caucus to built support for Israel among House Democrats. The Democratic Israel Working Group believes it is a moral and strategic interest for America to stand by its closet ally and friend in the Middle East, Israel. For generations, Democratic support for Israel has been deeply rooted in a partnership between the American Jewish Community and the Democratic Party. As an extension of this partnership, Democratic Members of the U.S. House of Representatives have joined together to form the Democratic Israel Working Group (DIWG). With a strong voice, DIWG will promote pro-Israel policy positions, lead outreach efforts to the Jewish community, and be a resource to the member of the Democratic Caucus. Rep. Green has been a strong supporter of pro-Israeli policy in the past. He has made numerous visits to gain first hand knowledge of the issues facing Israel. In August 2003, Green traveled with other Members of Congress to Israel which made for the largest single Congressional mission to Israel. ###
01.24.2005	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) issued the following statement in response to the Houston Chronicles Air Toxics Investigation. For many years I have served as an elected representative of fence-line communities from Manchester to Baytown and many others affected by localized chemical emissions. More than half of our areas economic activity is based on energy and chemical businesses, so we are doubly affected by both the economic and health effects of those two industries. Working with residents, company officials, and regulators, I have witnessed and encouraged tremendous improvement in the environmental technology over those many years. The Houston Chronicles recent series is a thought-provoking series about how far we have still to go. The most alarming bad news is the high readings on localized monitors in east Houston and Harris County and the role of numerous underreported accidental leaks resulting in unsafe human exposure. The fact that our neighborhoods do not meet federal standards is unacceptable and requires immediate explanation and action. The most significant good news is that cancer rates in these neighborhoods are not higher than normal, although I strongly support an updated comprehensive study of cancer rates in our communities. Having this information is a requirement for obtaining environmental justice for our communities. Our office is taking this opportunity to discuss the findings of the Chronicles recent investigation and the future with many local, state, and federal officials and area chemical companies. I particularly look forward to participating in future public meetings on these topics with area companies and elected officials. On the federal level, EPA is currently under a court order to implement national risk based regulations for air toxics like butadiene and benzene by the end of 2006, similar to those already in place in states other than Texas. Since the state leadership in Austin has chosen to stand idly by, we must hold the Bush Administration to its duty to provide adequate standards and the industry should accept reasonable risk based regulation. I will use my position on the House Energy and Commerce Committee to vigorously advocate for this result. EPA is also about to release comprehensive national air toxics data for 1999, which will provide additional data to corroborate or question the Chronicles findings. However, we know now that more local monitoring data is necessary, because when this data is made public a race to be the low emitter among nearby facilities results. As a representative of a district with one of the largest concentrations of energy and chemical facilities, I will continue to advocate effective energy policies to improve our areas economy and fair environmental policies that ensure we do not need to sacrifice our health for our prosperity. ###
01.06.2005	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep. Gene Green (D-Houston) joined by Reps. Brain Baird (D-WA) and Bill Delahunt (D-MA) reintroduced a Constitutional Amendment (HJ Res. 8) to abolish the Electoral College, noting that this should be the last time electoral ballots are counted in a joint session of Congress. Green continues to push for direct presidential elections where every vote counts. Hopefully today will be the last joint session in our history for counting electoral votes. Every citizens vote should count in America, not just the votes of the partisan insiders making up the Electoral College, Green said. The electoral college was only justified when communications were poor, literacy was low, and voters lacked information about out-of-state candidates. Todays voters are not out of touch and the Electoral College is out of date. Under the Electoral College system, Green has pointed out, presidential candidates visit states like Texas, New York and California only to raise money, not to address issues important to the election and forces presidential campaigns to focus only on a few swing states. Green also emphasized that all states polling solidly for one candidate or the other offer no incentive for Presidential candidates to spend time or resources in those states. The electoral college creates bad incentives, added Green. The media essentially creates voter apathy by telling the majority of voters that the election in their state has been decided months or even years in advance. The unfortunate effect is reduced turnout for presidential and many other elections. Under direct election, however, states have an incentive to raise turnout to increase their own influence in national elections. ###
01.05.2005	Washington, DC - On Tuesday, January 4, 2005, Houston Rep. Gene Green was sworn in to his seventh term as a Member of Congress at a U.S. Capitol swearing in ceremony for the 109th Congress. The event was attended by Congressman Greens wife, Helen Green. I am honored the people of the 29th District have chosen me to represent them for another term, said Rep. Green. I will continue to address the concerns families wrestle with everyday: preparing for retirement, providing a high-quality education for their children, and paying the rising costs of prescription drugs. In the 109th Congress, Rep. Green will continue to serve on the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House Committee on Official Standards and Conduct, commonly known as the Ethics Committee. Additionally, Green will serve the Democratic Leadership as a Regional Whip and Senior Deputy Whip.
01.04.2005	Washington, DC - Today on the floor of the House of Representatives Congressman Gene Green (D-Houston), member of the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, gave the following statement in opposition to the House Republican Rules for the 109th Congress: Despite what you may have read in the morning papers, the Republican leadership is eliminating a major traditional ethics standard of the House. While we are relieved that the Republican leadership did not to go as far as they wanted, we cannot be happy when the trend is clearly downwards, as it is today. The new rule means no ethics violations will be investigated if party leaders control their members, since a tie vote means dismissal. The logical result is more partisan political pressure on Committee members. America was intended to be a city on a hill, with the highest standards for government in the world. Sadly, we are now lowering that standard. The majority is proud in their political power and their skills at political games. While politics is an important part of our business, principles must be held above politics, because no man can serve two masters. When we are guided only by political considerations, like the House leadership today, the House abandons its principles and moral compass. I do not enjoy serving on Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, but I know something about legislative ethics since I was first elected to the Texas State House following the Sharpstown bank scandal in 1972. Born and raised in the great State of Texas, I also know something about being conservative, but I cannot begin to explain how eliminating a traditional ethics standard is conservative in the slightest. The House leadership can fool some of the people some of the time, like they did today when the papers said they were dropping ethics changes, when they clearly continue to weaken standards. However, the people will recognize this for what it is: a weakening of their governments ethics standards in pursuit of political power by one party, and the House should vote it down. ###
