03.01.2019	Washington, D.C. (March 1, 2019) – This week, the Center for Effective Lawmaking (CEL) released its Legislative Effectiveness Scores for the 115th Congress (2017-2018) and ranked Congressman Elijah E. Cummings second among all House Democratic lawmakers. Cummings was recognized for achieving success with two bills he introduced that became law in the last Congress—the TSP Modernization Act of 2017, which provides federal workers with more flexibility in managing their accounts under the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) and the All Circuit Review Act, which provides critical due process rights for whistleblowers. “I am deeply humbled to be recognized for my work in Congress to help people live better lives,” said Congressman Cummings, who served as the Ranking Member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform last Congress. “It is my greatest privilege to serve my constituents and the people of this country by working to create effective and efficient public policy. This is the work that fuels me and that I will continue to do to the best of my ability.” “Congressman Cummings scored as the second-most effective Democratic lawmaker in the 115th Congress,” said Alan Wiseman, Co-Director of the Center for Effective Lawmaking. “Despite his minority-party status, he was very active in sponsoring 18 separate bills and achieved an impressive degree of success in navigating five of them through the Republican-controlled House and seeing two of them becoming law: one of which provided for the modernization of the Thrift Savings Plan program, and the other of which expanded whistle-blower protections. In his new role as Chair of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, he will be poised to be a significantly more effective lawmaker in the 116th Congress.” The Center for Effective Lawmaking is a joint initiative between the University of Virginia’s Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy and Vanderbilt University. The Center seeks to advance the generation, communication, and use of new knowledge about the effectiveness of individual lawmakers and legislative institutions in Congress.
02.08.2019	Baltimore, MD (February 8, 2019)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement on the legislation in the Maryland General Assembly that would grant Johns Hopkins University the authority to establish a police force: “I have listened to my constituents in the Johns Hopkins community, including students, faculty, and staff and I support the bill in the Maryland General Assembly that would grant Johns Hopkins the authority to establish a small and accountable police force on their campus. This police force must be made publicly accountable through multiple levels of community, state, and city oversight. I am pleased that the proposed legislation contains funding to provide resources for our city’s youth. As public safety is our top priority, support for these youth programs will help address the root causes of the crime that exists.” ###
02.07.2019	Baltimore, MD (February 7, 2019)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement on the passing of Frank Robinson: “I am saddened to learn of the passing of Orioles legend Frank Robinson, one of the greatest baseball players of all time. Beyond his astonishing Hall of Fame career, Robinson broke the color barrier as the first African American MLB manager. When Frank Robinson came to Baltimore, he made a good team great. He was one of my heroes – a true role model for me and so many others. I remember the excitement I felt watching his powerful performance on the field. His historic feat in 1966, when he became the first and only player to hit a home run out of Memorial Stadium is a crown jewel in Baltimore’s history. His impact on the game of baseball, the state of Maryland, and, indeed, our country is immeasurable. My prayers are with the Robinson family as they mourn his passing.” ###
02.07.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Elijah Cummings (MD-7) and U.S. Rep. John Katko (NY-24) today reintroduced The Harriet Tubman Tribute Act, bipartisan legislation that directs the Secretary of the Treasury to place the likeness of Harriet Tubman on $20 Federal Reserve notes printed after December 31, 2020. “Too often, our nation does not do enough to honor the contributions of women in American history, especially women of color. Placing Harriet Tubman on our U.S. currency would be a fitting tribute to a woman who fought to make the values enshrined in our Constitution a reality for all Americans,” Rep. Cummings said. “Harriet Tubman was called the Moses of her people, because after she escaped slavery, she courageously made 19 trips to the South to free more than 300 enslaved African Americans. Her courage, conviction, and commitment to equality represent the best of America and it is long past time we recognize her place in history. I am proud to reintroduce this bill with Rep. Katko to honor Harriet Tubman’s role in making America a more free and more equal society.” “Harriet Tubman is an American icon, who represents our values of freedom and opportunity. She fought the evils of slavery and strived to create equality for all people, regardless of their race or gender,” said Rep. Katko. “I am proud Harriet Tubman settled in Central New York and her influence is still present in our community today. The Harriet Tubman Home in Auburn honors her life’s work and is a tremendous boost to our region’s tourism-based economy. I’m proud to once again champion this bipartisan measure with Rep. Cummings to honor Harriet Tubman’s legacy.” Harriet Tubman was born into slavery in Dorchester County, Maryland, as Araminta Ross, around 1820. She was enslaved by several families throughout her childhood. Abused and beaten, she suffered a serious head injury that would affect her for the rest of her life. In 1844, she married John Tubman and took the first name of her mother, Harriet. In 1849, Harriet Tubman escaped to Philadelphia. She launched her work as a “conductor” on the Underground Railroad soon after, making several trips back for family members and friends. Tubman continued to risk capture for more than a decade, delivering enslaved people from bondage to freedom in New England and Canada. Referred to as “Moses” because of her courage and sacrifice, she personally led more than a dozen expeditions, helping slaves escape. In 1859, Harriet Tubman purchased a home for her family in Auburn, New York. While there, she continued her role as an abolitionist, making several trips to Boston to speak alongside Frederick Douglass and others. When the Civil War erupted in 1861, Tubman volunteered. She worked for the Union Army as a nurse, scout, spy, and recruiter, and became the first woman to lead an armed expedition in the war, resulting in the liberation of hundreds of slaves. Traveling through Maryland, South Carolina, and Virginia, Harriet Tubman risked disease, capture, and physical injury to support the Union Army. After the war, Harriet Tubman returned to Auburn. She became active in the women’s suffrage movement and worked alongside Susan B. Anthony and Emily Howland. She continued to fight for human dignity, human rights, and equal justice throughout her lifetime. She died of pneumonia on March 10, 1913 surrounded by family and friends. In recognition of her service to this country, she was buried with military honors at the Fort Hill Cemetery in Auburn. ###
02.05.2019	Washington, DC (February 5, 2019)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s State of the Union address: “Tonight, President Trump tried to strike a reconciliatory note that has not been supported by his actions. He called on Democrats and Republicans to work together in a bipartisan manner, but over the past two years, he has sown division and demanded that he get exactly what he wants. “Next week, the economic security of hundreds of thousands of government employees, contractors, and their families will be imperiled again if the President insists on holding them hostage to obtain billions of taxpayer dollars for his misguided border wall. We need to work together to protect our nation through smart border security, not squander it on measures that are ineffective and wasteful. “We also need to uphold our nation’s laws by protecting those who seek refuge in America. We must not forget the thousands of immigrant children the Trump Administration separated from their families. We must remedy this gross injustice immediately. This should not be a partisan issue. We should all be able to agree that in the United States of America, we will not intentionally separate children from their parents. “Tonight, the President promised to work to lower the skyrocketing prices of prescription drugs. I agree that this is one of the most important issues American families face, and I am pleased that President Trump and members of his Administration have made overtures indicating that they may be ready to start working on this issue. But we have had two years with no action. When drug companies keep increasing their prices to unsustainable levels, it is literally a matter of life and death. The American people are counting on us to address the issue head on. “The President seems to believe that because Congress must legislate, we should not investigate. Of course, the Constitution requires us to do both. That is exactly how it works. “Last November, the American people demanded that their representatives in Washington fight for them and for what affects them on a daily basis. They want Congress to serve as a truly independent check on the Executive Branch. And they want us to stand up to the President’s repeated attacks on our nation’s institutions, including our judicial system, our intelligence officials, our law enforcement agencies, our international alliances, our public health system, the environmental protection laws, the census, and the right to vote. These attacks go directly against the soul of our democracy. “The American People deserve a Chief Executive who puts their needs—and the needs of the nation—first. I hope and pray that President Trump will fulfill this charge going forward.” ###
02.04.2019	Baltimore, MD (February 4, 2019)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) was joined by U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen and Congressmen Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes to announce the introduction of the FAFSA Fairness Act of 2019. The legislation would simplify the process to apply for and receive federal student financial aid for students who do not have contact with their parents. U.S. Senators Cardin and Van Hollen will introduce companion legislation in the Senate. “I firmly believe that all qualified students should be able to attend college and have access to the resources they need to succeed regardless of their financial or life circumstances,” said Cummings. “Students who have escaped abusive homes, have been abandoned, have parents who are incarcerated, or who have other special circumstances that limit contact with their parents should have the same opportunities as their classmates who have not faced these obstacles. Instead, these students frequently abandon their goal of attending college because of the often long and complicated process of applying for student aid. This bill will help prevent our financial aid process from continuing to be an unintended barrier to higher education.” “We want all students to have an opportunity to achieve their dream of earning a college degree,” said Cardin, a member of the Senate Finance Committee. “Students that have faced difficult and abusive life circumstances that leave them unable to contact their parents should have the same chance as their peers to apply for federal student aid and make informed financial decisions and comparison shop for the highest quality, yet most affordable, option for college available to them. Team Maryland will continue to work together to eliminate obstacles that our most vulnerable students face when working towards their higher education goals.” “Nobody should be denied the opportunity to attend college because they don’t have a big enough bank account. As part of our effort to make college more accessible, we must streamline and reform the process for applying for student financial aid. The current financial aid application process is broken, and I’m proud to support this legislation to make it easier for students to make informed decisions about their academic futures. I will continue working with Team Maryland to provide every individual with the desire to go to college the opportunity to do so,” said Van Hollen. “Team Maryland is working hard to not only increase financial aid, but make it easier to apply. A student who may have left home due to an abusive environment or whose parents are incarcerated should not have to jump through extra hoops in order to achieve a quality education. I applaud Congressman Elijah Cummings as well as Senators Cardin and Van Hollen for their leadership on this issue and look forward to helping them get the FAFSA Fairness Act signed into law,” said Ruppersberger. “We must make it easier for every student in America to apply for and receive financial assistance to make informed decisions about higher education,” said Sarbanes. “The FAFSA Fairness Act will ensure that any student – regardless of financial situation or family dynamics – can have the same ease of access to the FAFSA application process. I want to thank Congressman Cummings for leading this important effort. I am proud to co-sponsor and reintroduce this bill.” “This legislation will open the doors of education for many students who could not attend Baltimore City Community College because they lacked access to Federal student aid,” said Sylvia Rochester, Baltimore City Community College Interim Vice President of Student Affairs. The bill’s key provision would allow students who do not have contact with their parents, or who meet other criteria established by educational institutions, to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as “provisionally independent” students. Currently, these students must undergo a “dependency override” at each institution they apply to before they are able to be considered for financial aid. This process can be extremely time consuming and a barrier to college access for students with these difficult personal and financial circumstances. The bill would not increase the workload of college financial aid administrators or alter their discretion, but it would ease the financial aid application process for students and provide an incentive to complete the entire process and enroll in higher education. ###
01.25.2019	Washington, D.C. (Jan. 25, 2019) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s announcement that he is finally ending the government shutdown and temporarily reopening the federal government: “After the longest shutdown in history, I am pleased that the government will reopen and federal employees will be paid. Now, we all need to move forward – through reasoned dialog and normal order – to create a long-term agreement that supports Americans’ priorities and protects our borders through smart security without abandoning the values of our nation or punishing hundreds of thousands of government employees, contractors, and their families."
01.21.2019	Baltimore, MD (January 21, 2019) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement honoring the legacy of civil rights icon Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.: “Today, we honor the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. We remember the man whose calling led him to tirelessly promote political, economic, and social justice for all Americans. “Dr. King engaged in the never-ending work of perfecting our Democracy, and he called upon our nation to offer far more opportunity and hope to all the Americans who – regardless of their racial background– were being disparaged and dismissed by our society. “We must take pride in our progress, but we must continue to fight against the processes that threaten opportunity by endangering our democratic system. In the past few years, certain states have renewed efforts to suppress voting rights, stripping people of their ability to control their destiny. “We find ourselves again asking for the ballot - just as Dr. King had done in his 1957 speech when he said: ‘Give us the ballot, and we will no longer have to worry the federal government about our basic rights.’ “Today, we must carry Dr. King’s vision forward and fight to expand voting rights. And on this day of remembrance and celebration, I urge all my fellow Americans to carry Dr. King’s dream in their hearts and work towards building a more fair, equal, and just society.” ###
01.16.2019	Washington, D.C. (January 16, 2019) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to end the Trump shutdown and fund government agencies for the eighth time: “On the 26th day of the Trump shutdown, I again voted to end the shutdown and fund government agencies. This shutdown has gone on for far too long. The American people deserve to have their government back at work for them, and federal employees deserve their pay. Our government must be better than this.” “Every day the shutdown continues, the pain felt by the over 800,000 affected federal workers only increases as anxieties about how to pay rent, cover medical expenses, and provide for their families deepen. The more than 23,000 Maryland-based federal employees who are furloughed or working without pay have already missed one paycheck, and are now forced to contemplate the possibility of going an entire month – or even longer – without pay. I am glad to have voted to pass legislation to provide federal employees with back pay once the shutdown ends, but that does little to alleviate the pain of our nation’s public servants who went from living paycheck to paycheck, to paycheck to no check.” “I am proud to have voted for each of the eight measures Democrats in the House of Representatives brought to the floor to end the shutdown and provide funding to government agencies. I urge Leader McConnell to bring these measures up for a vote in the Senate, and for President Trump to work with Congress to allow the government to get back to work in service to the American people.” Since the 116th Congress was sworn in, Congressman Cummings has voted to open the government and fund key agencies eight times: Jan. 16 – Congressman Cummings voted to end the shutdown and fund the government through Feb. 8. Jan. 15 – Congressman Cummings voted to end the shutdown and fund the government through Feb. 1. Jan. 11 – Congressman Cummings voted to fund the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Interior. Jan. 10 – Congressman Cummings voted to fund the Departments of Transportation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and other agencies. Jan. 10 – Congressman Cummings voted to fund the Department of Agriculture and the Food and Drug Administration. Jan. 9 – Congressman Cummings voted to fund the Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service. Jan. 3 – Congressman Cummings voted to fund the Department of Homeland Security through February 8. Jan. 3 – Congressman Cummings voted to pass a package of six appropriations bills that had all previously passed the Senate with bipartisan support.
12.21.2018	Washington, D.C. (December 22, 2018) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement on the partial government shutdown: “At midnight, President Trump and Congressional Republicans forced the government to partially shut down. Because of this shutdown, over 800,000 federal employees will go without pay over the holiday season. This shutdown was completely avoidable, and Congressional Democrats offered multiple options to keep the government open. However, the President and Congressional Republicans decided to proceed with this shutdown because of the President's demand that taxpayers foot the bill for his border wall; the same wall the President promised the American people they would not have to pay to build. I urge the President to work with Congress to swiftly find a solution to fund the government.” ###
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. (December 20, 2018) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement on the House passage of the First Step Act: “Today, I voted in favor of the First Step Act. This bill – as its name states – is just the beginning of needed reforms to our federal criminal justice system. The bill takes significant first steps at reducing mass incarceration through modest sentencing reform. It also provides additional reentry resources to give people a meaningful second chance after incarceration.” “However, there is still work that needs to be done to tackle the scourge of mass incarceration and to address the many ways the criminal justice system disproportionately harms people of color.” “As we look toward the new Congress, I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass my legislation – the Fair Chance Act and the REDEEM Act – and other important measures to continue to reform our broken criminal justice system.” The First Step Act includes Congressman Cummings’ Maintaining dignity and Eliminating unnecessary Restrictive Confinement of Youths Act (MERCY Act). The MERCY Act prohibits the solitary confinement of juveniles who are tried in the federal system and held in pretrial facilities or juvenile detention facilities, barring some extremely exceptional temporary circumstances. “I am pleased that my bill, The MERCY Act, was included in the final bill. Compounding incarceration with solitary confinement can break a young person’s spirit beyond repair, and it can have devastating long-term impacts on their mental and physical health. The MERCY Act takes a strong step toward eliminating this barbaric practice, to ensure our youth have a chance to be rehabilitated and become contributing members of their communities.” The MERCY Act: Bans Juvenile Solitary Confinement. This legislation bans the use of “room confinement” in juvenile facilities, except as a temporary response to a behavioral issue that poses serious and immediate risk to any individual. Requires Use of Less Restrictive Techniques. The bill ensures that before a juvenile is placed in room confinement, the staff member must use less restrictive techniques, including de-escalation techniques or discussions with a qualified mental health professional. Encourages Transparency. The bill mandates that the juvenile be informed of why the room confinement placement occurred and that release will occur upon regaining self-control or after a certain period of time in solitary confinement. It also requires that the juvenile’s attorney and parents be notified when certain actions are taken. Places Time Limits on Usage of Confinement. The MERCY Act limits solitary confinement on juveniles that pose a risk of harming others to no more than 3 hours and to juveniles who pose a risk of harm to themselves to no more than half an hour. It requires that juveniles be removed from room confinement once the risk of harm subsides. Sets Minimum Conditions of Confinement. The bill ensures that the room used for room confinement in exceptional circumstances have adequate space, lighting, heating, cooling, ventilation, and access to water, toilet facilities, and hygiene supplies. Requires Post-Confinement Services. After the maximum period of confinement, the bill mandates that juveniles be transferred to a facility where services can be provided. ###
12.06.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen and Congressmen Steny Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger, and John Sarbanes yesterday met with the University System of Maryland (USM) Board of Regents Chair Linda Gooden and USM Chancellor Bob Caret. The meeting was requested in the aftermath of the Board’s investigation into and recommendations regarding the football program at the University of Maryland, College Park (UMD). After the meeting, the members released the following joint statement: “In the wake of the tragic and avoidable death of Jordan McNair, it is critical that the entire University System of Maryland implements reforms to keep students safe. In our meeting, Chair Gooden and Chancellor Caret reiterated their commitment to following the recommendations of the independent commission. But promises are not enough, and the congressional delegation will push for continued oversight to ensure health and safety remain their primary focus. In the aftermath of the McNair tragedy, it's also clear that the Board of Regents acted outside of the bounds – we support Dr. Loh and believe universities' presidents must have the authority to implement personnel and operational decisions on their own campuses. Together, we will work to make sure that USM delivers a high-quality education and provides for the health and safety of every student.” ###
12.05.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen and Congressmen Steny Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (All D-Md.) met Wednesday evening with General Motors Chair and CEO Mary Barra in an effort to gain clarity and reverse the decision to close the GM facility at White Marsh. The lawmakers released the following joint statement on the meeting: “This evening, we met with General Motors (GM) Chair and CEO Mary Barra and again reiterated our shock and dismay at the company's plans to end production at its White Marsh facility, home to 350 dedicated employees and contractors. We urged her to reconsider the company’s decision, as the plant is large, modern and situated in a community that wants to keep up its hard work. The company’s stated ‘realignment’ to focus on light-duty trucks, sport utility vehicles (SUVs), and self-driving and electric vehicles makes the White Marsh decision incomprehensible because the plant makes light-duty truck transmissions and electric motors. “More importantly: the American people came to the aid of GM in a time of crisis. Now, GM is turning its back on workers who helped the company weather the storm. In addition to a $50 billion taxpayer bailout and a tax cut from the Republican tax law, GM has received nearly $115.5 million in federal, state and local grants exclusively for its White Marsh facility. The company is now seeing tremendous growth and, if it insists on laying off the employees who helped it rebound from near-bankruptcy, GM should return these grants to the taxpayers by providing re-training and new opportunities to affected employees. Additionally, absent a change of heart, we asked Chairman Barra to help find a new tenant for the facility that offers a manufacturing future for the community of White Marsh. We look forward to continued conversations with a singular focus on the lives and livelihoods of our constituents.” ###
12.03.2018	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, along with Congressmen Elijah Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes and Jamie Raskin (all D-MD) have sent a letter to General Motors Chairman and CEO Mary Teresa Barra requesting a meeting to discuss the company’s decision to terminate operations at its White Marsh facility, calling it an “example of extremely poor corporate citizenship.” The company announced it will cease production at the transmissions plant in Maryland, which employs 400 hourly, salaried and contracted workers. The state-of-the-art 580,000 square-foot facility has received hundreds of millions of dollars at the federal, state and local levels since it opened its first White Marsh plant in 2000 and its second in 2012. The plants are home to a top-tier workforce based on GM’s own corporate metrics. “We believe that White Marsh’s highly skilled workforce, modern facility and experience with production lines, from electric motors to transmissions, can and should be repurposed to meet GM’s new business objectives,” the lawmakers wrote. “GM has a responsibility not just to its shareholders but to its workforce and the taxpayers who provided the company with so much financial support.” General Motors has received more than $245 million in grants from state, federal and local governments to grow its operations and a $50 billion taxpayer bailout. The White Marsh closure is part of a larger restructuring plan that will eliminate 15 percent of the company’s North American workforce and shift much of its production to China and Mexico. Click here to read the full letter.
12.01.2018	Baltimore, MD (December 1, 2018)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement on the passing of President George H.W. Bush: “Today I join the nation in mourning the loss of President George H.W. Bush, our 41st president. President Bush came upon this earth and worked tirelessly to make it a better place. He loved his country and lived a life of courageous service.” “A World War II hero, he spent 40 years serving his country in various leadership positions including U.S Congressman, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations and Director of the CIA. He was an honorable statesman who pledged as president to make the United States a ‘kinder, gentler’ nation.” “Following his presidency, President Bush continued to answer the call to service by leading efforts to raise money for relief after the Southeast Asian tsunami of 2004 and Hurricane Katrina.” “In addition to leading our country, he was the head of a family that espoused his commitment to government service. My thoughts and prayers are with the Bush family and I hope they will find some comfort in knowing that after just a few months of separation, President Bush now joins Barbara, his beloved wife of 73 years."
11.29.2018	Washington, D.C. (November 29, 2018)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement in response to a report announcing the results of a review of Maryland’s election systems: “I am relieved that a comprehensive federal and state review found no evidence of hostile activity on Maryland’s state election systems and other networks. I want to commend the cooperative efforts by state officials, DHS, and the FBI to ensure that our networks are strong and resilient. This process has raised policy issues around election vendor transparency and security, and I will work with my colleagues to pass legislation that best addresses these issues and strengthens the security of our elections.” This review was initiated at the request of state lawmakers—a request supported by Cummings and the entire Maryland congressional delegation—after it was revealed in July that ByteGrid, a vendor that hosts some of the state’s election systems, was purchased in 2015 by a Russian oligarch close to Vladimir Putin. ###
11.22.2018	Baltimore, MD (Nov. 22, 2018)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement to celebrate Thanksgiving: “Thanksgiving allows us to reflect on what matters most in our lives. As we gather with family and friends to share a meal and give thanks for our blessings, it is imperative that we think of others. Too many of our friends and neighbors often go unheard, and their needs go unmet,” said Cummings. During the November election, the American people demanded that their representatives in Washington fight for them and for what affects their lives on a day-to-day basis. The American people have entrusted us to do such vital things as protecting their healthcare, lowering their drug prices, guarding their right to vote, and making government accountable to them.” “As we give thanks and reflect this holiday season, let us commit ourselves to support our fellow citizens and dedicate our efforts to help everyone live up to their God-given potential,” continued Cummings. “Today, I give thanks for everything with which my family and I have been blessed. I am ever grateful for the trust of those I am honored to represent, and for the dedicated service of those who put the needs of others first.”
11.11.2018	Baltimore, MD (November 11, 2018) -- Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), today released the following statement in recognition of Veterans Day. “On Veterans Day, as on every other day, we must never forget that human freedom remains America's first principle and the ultimate source of our strength. What is also critical to remember, however, is that the freedoms we enjoy are not free,” said Cummings. “Many have made tremendous sacrifices to ensure our safety, comfort, and way of life." “We must particularly remember those who laid down their lives in the service of our nation; we are forever indebted and eternally grateful to them. Today we remember their sacrifice, and we keep their families in our prayers,” continued Cummings. “I thank all of our military forces, current and veteran, who have put their lives on the line for this great nation, and I encourage all Marylanders to do the same.”
11.01.2018	Baltimore, MD (October 31, 2018) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) was joined by Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman John Sarbanes (MD-03), at a press conference to encourage Marylanders to sign up for health insurance during the upcoming Open Enrollment period. From November 1, 2018, to December 15, 2018, Marylanders can purchase health insurance through Maryland Health Connection, the state’s insurance marketplace. Other participants included Dr. Shelly Choo of the Baltimore City Health Department, Mr. Andrew Ratner of Maryland Health Connection, and Ms. Traci Kodeck of HealthCare Access Maryland. “Today, I’m here begging you, do not let anything stand in your way and prevent you from enrolling in a health plan through Maryland Health Connection,” said Cummings. “Everyone deserves access to healthcare that will improve their lives. Healthcare is a right, not a privilege.” "Despite the attempts of the Trump administration and congressional Republicans to sabotage our nation’s health care system, Maryland has fought to safeguard the consumer protections of the Affordable Care Act, including making sure those with pre-existing conditions have access to coverage. Because of our efforts, insurance rates on the individual marketplace will decrease by an average of 14 percent from last year," said U.S. Senator Ben Cardin, a member of the Senate Finance Health Care Subcommittee. "I encourage all Marylanders to visit the Maryland Health Connection to shop for plans and choose the one that is best for yourselves and your families." “Everyone deserves fair access to high-quality and affordable health care,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “And the Maryland Health Connection has made tremendous strides in getting more people covered. Beginning tomorrow, Marylanders can once again start shopping for health plans through Maryland Health Connection and choose a plan that’s best for their individual or family needs. This year, many rates are lower than they were last year. So, start shopping and get covered by visiting www.marylandhealthconnection.gov or by calling 1-855-642-8572.” “Every resident should sign up for the coverage they need to protect their health. Health insurance and access to healthcare can prevent small problems from becoming life-threatening issues,” said Mary Beth Haller, interim Health Commissioner of the Baltimore City Health Department. “No one plans on becoming sick or injured. Health insurance provides financial protection, and the cost of not being insured is higher than the investment in getting affordable coverage.” "Many plans cost less for 2019 and we offer plenty of expert advice at locations all over Maryland to help people enroll. As our TV and radio ads say, if you've thought this was too hard or expensive for you before, 'Think Again,'" said Michele Eberle, executive director for the Maryland Health Benefit Exchange, which operates MarylandHealthConnection.gov. “Health insurance is more affordable this year, and Marylanders should start looking at the best option for them and their families,” said Traci Kodeck, president and CEO of HealthCare Access Maryland, the organization providing support to residents of Baltimore City and five other counties during Open Enrollment. “Our team at HealthCare Access Maryland is trained and ready to help all Marylanders learn about what insurance plans are available and sign up for coverage before December 15th. Get health insurance now and you will feel more secure about your health.” According to Maryland Health Connection, because of the Affordable Care Act: the uninsured population of Maryland is at an all-time low of 6.1%, the percentage of African American residents with health insurance has increased from 89% in 2012 to 94% in 2016, the percentage of Hispanic residents with health insurance has increased from 67% in 2012 to 79% in 2016, and, Marylanders can visit www.marylandhealthconnection.gov or call 1-855-642-8572 to find out more information and sign up.
10.26.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Anthony G. Brown, John K. Delaney and Jamie Raskin (All D-Md.) have announced that the Maryland State Police will receive a grant of $2,544,800 through the Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) to support law enforcement agencies in combating the illegal manufacturing and distribution of methamphetamine, heroin, and prescription opioids. The funds come from the Anti-Heroin Task Force Program (AHTFP), a competitive grant program that provides two years of funding directly to law enforcement agencies in states with high per capita levels of primary treatment admissions for heroin and other opioids. Maryland was one of 17 states awarded funding this week. According to DOJ, these grants will support the location or investigation of illicit activities related to the distribution of heroin or the unlawful distribution of prescription opioids. AHTFP grants are managed and dispersed through COPS, the component of the DOJ responsible for advancing the practice of community policing through information sharing and financial assistance. “There is no simple answer to the opioid crisis, which has touched every corner of our state, but we do know that it takes partnership at all levels of government, and all available resources, to stem this tide of opioid addiction and abuse,” said Senator Cardin. “The COPS Program continues to actively support Maryland and our communities in need. I’ll keep fighting to ensure the federal government remains an aggressive partner in Maryland’s fight to combat the opioid epidemic.” “As Maryland and states across the country work to combat this public health crisis, they need a partner in the federal government. This funding will help our state combat opioids and will provide crucial resources to fight this epidemic. That’s why I have strongly supported this funding and will continue fighting for this program in the Senate. But we are only getting started. Together, we must keep fighting for prevention, treatment, and recovery services for individuals struggling with substance abuse and other mental health issues. We won't stop until we've ended this scourge and addressed the terrible personal and economic toll that the opioid epidemic and substance abuse takes on our communities," said Senator Van Hollen, a member of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committees. “I’m pleased that the Department of Justice has awarded this grant funding to the state of Maryland,” said Congressman Hoyer. “These funds are an important step in addressing this crisis and will further help our law enforcement agencies tackle the heroin and opioid epidemic, which has affected thousands of families in our state. I am a strong proponent of the Community Orientated Policing Services Program, which brings together law enforcement and health providers, a critical partnership in addressing the drug epidemic. I look forward to continuing to work with our local law enforcement, health care providers, and other stakeholders to better address the opioid crisis.” “As a lifelong resident of Baltimore, I’ve seen the destructive nature of opioid and heroin addiction, which destroys lives and tears apart families and communities,” said Congressman Cummings. “The over $2.5M in grant funding for the Maryland State Police will be vital in combating the illegal manufacturing and distribution of heroin and prescription opioids in Maryland.” “As an Appropriator, I fought the White House’s efforts to gut the COPS program, successfully restoring full funding in the Commerce, Justice and Science funding bill,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Now, Maryland is getting a piece of the pie, helping our state law enforcement crack down on heroin manufacturing and distribution in our communities. The COPS program is the type of investment in the basics that our constituents want us to prioritize.” “This new federal grantmaking commitment will help boost Maryland’s efforts to tackle the opioid epidemic,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “In addition to providing local and state law enforcement with the resources they need to reduce the availability of heroin and other opioids, we must continue fighting this terrible crisis by expanding addiction treatment and recovery services in communities across Maryland and around the country.” “There isn’t a zip code in Maryland that hasn’t been harmed by opioids and giving law enforcement the resources they need to crack down on illicit and illegal activity is an important part of ending this terrible crisis. There is strong bipartisan support for this program because it delivers federal assistance to the local agencies so that they can do their essential work,” said Congressman Delaney. “I applaud the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services’ decision to send over $2.5 million to Maryland's police to help stem the flow of illegal opioids to our state. Like much of the country, my district is suffering from this epidemic, and relies heavily upon federal aid for local and state law enforcement officers who are working on the ground, in our communities,” Congressman Brown said. “I am proud to support this federal funding and the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services; they are essential partners in our fight against the opioid epidemic.” “I am pleased that the Department of Justice has awarded this crucial funding to Maryland to help us combat the opioid crisis affecting so many people in our state,” said Congressman Raskin. “It will help Maryland State Police curb the illegal manufacturing and distribution of heroin and prescription opioids. But we can’t stop there. We have to work together with local law enforcement, health care providers, medical researchers, and other community members to work to stop prescription abuse and to end this devastating epidemic and help everyone affected by it.” Earlier this week the President signed into law H.R. 6, the “Substance Use Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act,” also known as the “SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act.” The legislation reauthorized a number of key law enforcement programs important to Maryland through the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), such as the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA), drug courts, the COPS Anti-Meth Program, and the COPS Anti-Heroin Task Force Program.
10.09.2018	Baltimore, MD (October 9, 2018) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), today issued a statement following the passing of former United States Senator Joseph Tydings from Maryland. “My heart is heavy today in learning of the passing of Senator Joseph Tydings. Joe was a true friend and mentor who impacted my life in countless ways,” Cummings observed. “Joe was a man who devoted his life in service to the nation and Maryland.” “Joe’s service in the U.S. Senate, and his service to the community after he left the Senate in 1971, was marked by his fearless and tireless fight for our rights, the protection of animals, and the preservation of the environment,” continued Cummings. “Joe was a Marylander to his core and set an example for us all to follow. I will miss him greatly, and I send my condolences and sympathies to his family and friends.” Senator Joseph Tydings passed away at age 90 on Monday. ###
10.05.2018	Baltimore, MD (October 5, 2018) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), released the following statement to commemorate Breast Cancer Awareness Month: “We have all been touched in some way by breast cancer. This month is a time for us to remember the loved ones we’ve lost in the battle against the disease and to honor the brave women and men who have prevailed in their struggle. “Breast cancer remains the second most commonly diagnosed cancer among American women, with one in every eight women developing breast cancer in her lifetime. As of January 2018, there are more than 3.1 million women with a history of breast cancer in the U.S. But despite the many strides we have made, more than 40,000 women will lose their battle with breast cancer this year. “These statistics are sobering, but there is hope. Federal funding for breast cancer research has helped propel advances in detection and treatment. And the Affordable Care Act has provided life-saving access to preventive services, including screening, and treatment for millions of women who previously lacked health insurance coverage while ensuring that women who have had breast cancer could no longer be denied coverage for a pre-existing condition. “We must fight against any threat to these protections to ensure women continue to have access to the care they need. Breast cancer awareness must be about more than sporting pink ribbons. It must be about making sure all women have access to the health coverage and care they need and ensuring resources are directed toward identifying and developing treatments that will save lives and finally cure this terrible disease.” ###
10.02.2018	Washington, D.C. (Oct. 2, 2018)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, held a press conference with United States Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen; Congressmen Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes; Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh; Baltimore City Health Department Senior Medical Advisor, Dr. Shelly Choo; and Maryland resident Barbara Gruber, to release a report by the Democratic staff of the Committee. The report details how people in Maryland would be negatively impacted by the Trump Administration’s actions to invalidate protections for people with pre-existing conditions guaranteed by the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Ranking Member Cummings stated: “Families used to go bankrupt because health insurance companies were allowed to discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions. Congress changed that when we required insurance companies to offer coverage to everyone regardless of their health status. They are now barred from charging higher premiums on the basis of health status, and they are prohibited from selling policies that do not cover pre-existing conditions. Women and older adults are also protected from paying higher premiums. Despite these life-saving benefits, the Trump Administration has decided to attack these critical protections, while offering nothing to replace them.” “Because of the Affordable Care Act, health insurance companies cannot refuse to cover someone or charge someone more just because they have a pre-existing condition. If the Trump Administration has its way, millions of Marylanders with pre-existing conditions are at risk of losing their health coverage. We cannot allow this to happen,” said Senator Cardin. “We must keep fighting to ensure that the most vulnerable among us, including those with cancer, diabetes, or behavioral health conditions have access to quality, affordable health care.” “I commend Congressman Cummings for clearly documenting the disastrous impact the Trump Administration’s effort to undermine the Affordable Care Act would have on Maryland families. The ACA provides critical protections for Marylanders with pre-existing health conditions – and the Trump Administration is actively lobbying a federal court to strike them down,” said Senator Chris Van Hollen. “From chronic conditions like asthma to life-threatening illnesses like cancer – Marylanders with pre-existing conditions are at risk of facing sky-rocketing premiums or being denied health coverage altogether if the Trump Administration has its way. I will continue fighting these disastrous efforts and working to protect Marylanders with pre-existing conditions.” “Americans overwhelmingly support the consumer protections afforded by the ACA because they are saving lives,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “If the Trump Administration has its way, insurance companies will once again be able to flatly refuse coverage and price gouge cancer survivors, the mentally ill and parents of babies with low birth rate. Even sleep apnea can be considered a preexisting condition. We will not sit idle while the Administration attempts to roll back these critical protections for American families.” “We cannot allow President Trump and his Republican allies in Congress to take us back to the days when insurance companies could openly discriminate against patients – especially women and seniors – for having a pre-existing health condition,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “Every Marylander deserves fair access to affordable health care, regardless of past medical conditions. The Affordable Care Act helped get us closer to that goal, and I will continue to fight back against Republican efforts to undermine this critical, life-saving protection that all Americans deserve.” “We cannot allow President Trump and Attorney General Sessions to destroy the ACA,” said Attorney General Frosh. “Their attempts to sabotage this life-saving law would create chaos in the healthcare market and jeopardize the health of thousands of Marylanders.” “As an emergency physician, I have treated patients at every stage of life with pre-existing conditions – from babies born with a congenital heart defects to children with asthma to adults with high blood pressure," said Baltimore City Health Commissioner Dr. Leana Wen. "Who among us doesn’t have a pre-existing condition? Health care is a fundamental human right. No one should be denied the right to good health based on the ability to pay or due to an illness they happen to have. I thank Congressman Cummings for leading this fight--it is literally a matter of life or death.” At Ranking Member Cummings’ request, Democratic staff prepared a report on the threat to people in Maryland by the Trump Administration’s actions. The report estimates: As many as 260,000 people in the individual market in the state may lose federal protections against coverage denials or premium increases as a result of their pre-existing health conditions, gender, or age. As many as 160,000 women could be charged more than men for the same insurance coverage. As many as 108,000 older Americans could face exorbitantly higher premiums, simply because of their age. As many as 19,000 construction workers, 9,700 shipping clerks, and 4,800 EMTs employed in the state in higher risk occupations who currently purchase health insurance through the individual market may lose federal protections against coverage denials or premium increases. According to a recent Kaiser Family Foundation poll, nearly three-quarters of the American people believe it is “very important” to retain these protections in the law. Click here to read today’s report.
09.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC (Sep. 11, 2018) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), released the following statement in remembrance of the lives lost in the September, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and a rural Pennsylvania field: “Today will forever be a solemn day for America. On this day, we wake up and take pause to remember the men and women we lost tragically in Washington, New York, and Pennsylvania 17 years ago. “As we remember the unmatched bravery of those who are no longer with us, we must also remember how we came together as a country during the days, weeks and months after the heinous 9/11 attacks. Although it could have been a time of great fear and weakness, as those who perpetrated the attacks intended, it was instead a shining example of our nation’s strength and unity. “We will never be able to bring back those taken from us on that day. But we can continue to work together to protect our democracy against any who would try to harm it. “Today, let us pray for the families who lost loved ones, for the many still suffering physical and mental pain from those attacks, and perhaps most importantly, for a world that never has to see such tragedy again.”
09.04.2018	Washington, D.C. (September 4, 2018) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, sent a letter to K. Jane Williams, Acting Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), urging the FTA to examine oversight by the Maryland State Safety Oversight (SSO) Program of both the deficiencies uncovered in the Maryland Transit Administration’s (MTA) Metro Subway operations and of the MTA’s corrective actions. Cummings also wrote to the Maryland SSO Program seeking information regarding the Program’s awareness of the deficiencies uncovered in the Metro Subway system as well as the Program’s plans for overseeing MTA’s actions to correct the operating deficiencies. The Maryland State Safety Oversight (SSO) Program is responsible for safety oversight of the MTA’s heavy and light rail systems in Baltimore. The deficiencies in the MTA’s Metro Subway operations were identified in a recently released Peer Review Report by the American Public Transportations Association (APTA) that was based on an assessment conducted in late April. “It is unclear how long the deficiencies in the Metro Subway’s operations identified in April by the peer review panel have existed,” Cummings wrote. “However, just one month after the peer review that found these deficiencies was conducted, the Maryland SSO Program was certified by the FTA as compliant with the federal State Safety Oversight Program Rule.” Among the many troubling observations found in the APTA peer review were the following: “Slow Orders are currently being implemented verbally and in some cases are not adhered to at all by train operators;” There is a “lack of in-department track engineering expertise as well as inadequate track inspection training and no track recertification;” There is also a “lack of in-department signal and power engineering expertise and inadequate signal and power training with no periodic recertification;” and Regarding signal and power systems, “relay testing is out of compliance in some places by more than two review cycles;” in some cases, “work orders were not completed;” and “[t]here is no policy in place for the reporting and recording of signal system anomalies.” “The deficiencies in the MTA’s operations identified by the APTA peer review panel are deeply disturbing and require immediate corrective action,” Cummings wrote. “It is critical that FTA confirm whether the Maryland SSO Program it has certified to oversee safety on Maryland’s fixed rail transit systems can fully and adequately ensure the safe operation of these systems, including overseeing the resolution of the many operational deficiencies identified in the APTA peer review study.” Cummings urged the FTA to determine whether the Maryland SSO Program was aware of the deficiencies identified in the Peer Review Report, whether the SSO had issued any corrective action plans to address the deficiencies, and whether the SSO had sought to enforce compliance with any corrective action plans. Click here to read today’s letter to Williams and Shutt.
09.03.2018	Washington, D.C. (September 3, 2018) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement in recognition of Labor Day: “While we celebrate another Labor Day, I would like to take a moment to recognize hardworking Americans – the workers who wake up every day and provide vital services to their communities. This day was established to recognize them and contributions made by the Labor Movement. “Many of you have the day off to spend time with family and friends, but there are still workers at their jobs across the country today, fighting to make a living wage. We have left too many Americans behind, working families who cannot afford child care, women who do not earn equal pay for equal work, and labor unions losing their rights to organize. Let us not forget them. Let us continue to fight for these workers.” ###
08.30.2018	Baltimore, MD (August 30, 2018) — On Friday, August 31st, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) will join the Mayor of Baltimore, Catherine Pugh, and Baltimore Health Commissioner, Dr. Leana Wen, to observe International Overdose Awareness Day. He will discuss the urgency of treating the drug crisis like the public health emergency it is, and the urgency of passing the CARE Act he introduced with Senator Elizabeth Warren. This legislation would apply to the drug crisis the Ryan White model that has been used successfully to help individuals with HIV/AIDS. WHO: Rep. Elijah E. Cummings Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh Baltimore Health Commissioner Dr. Leana Wen WHAT: International Overdose Awareness Day WHEN: Friday, August 31st, 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM WHERE: Rotunda of City Hall 100 Holiday Street Baltimore, MD 21202 ###
08.26.2018	Baltimore, MD (August 25, 2018) — Congressman Cummings released the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain. "Senator John McCain dedicated his life in service to our country. He was a war hero whose bravery and courage took him from the battle fields to the United States Senate where he fought tirelessly for his constituents and the people of this country. "Paul Wellstone once said, 'I don’t think politics has anything to do with left, right or center. It has to do with trying to do right by people.' Senator McCain embodied this belief. Known as the maverick of the Senate, he was not afraid to challenge the ideology of his party in order to stand up for what he believed was right for the American people. "Our country has lost an honorable patriot and dedicated public servant. My thoughts and prayers are with the McCain family during this grievous time."
08.16.2018	Washington, D.C. (August 16, 2018) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cumming (D-MD), released the following statement after the news that Aretha Franklin died of pancreatic cancer. “I join the world in mourning the loss of the legendary Aretha Franklin. Known as the Queen of Soul, she was truly the queen of our souls. Aretha Franklin brought life to life. Despite her international fame and numerous awards and accolades, she never forgot her roots. She was raised in the church and we were often brought to tears by her music because of the spirit that infused every note. “In addition to her unmatched musical talent, Ms. Franklin was a social justice pioneer. She consistently answered the call to action by using her celebrity to raise awareness of the injustices and needless suffering that existed across our nation. Her song “Respect” became an anthem for the civil rights movement and brought us together to fight for justice and equality. “My prayers are with her family and I hope that Aretha Franklin’s everlasting influence on our culture will bring peace to all of us who mourn her loss.” ###
08.01.2018	WASHINGTON – The Maryland congressional delegation today praised the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for issuing a disaster declaration for the devastating storm and flooding that hit Ellicott City, broader Howard County, and Baltimore County in late May. The request for a disaster declaration for Baltimore City for the same storm is still pending. “Disasters like the flooding our state experienced in late May demand that we come together as one united community, and that’s what Team Maryland has done,” the delegation said. “This storm caused incredible damage and put countless Marylanders in crisis. Partnering with local governments and nonprofits is a critical first step in our rebuilding efforts, but this federal disaster declaration was necessary to secure the resources our communities so desperately need.” In a joint letter Friday, the full congressional delegation, including Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Andy Harris, M.D., John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie B. Raskin, requested President Trump approve the federal assistance “given the massive impact that this flooding had on state and local resources in Maryland.” In addition to the tragic loss of life, estimates for public infrastructure damages and repair caused by the storm at more than $10.5 million in Howard County and $8.6 million in Baltimore County – which far exceed local Public Assistance thresholds. Based on the disaster declaration for the May 27-28, 2018 severe storm and flooding, federal public assistance funding is available to state and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and to access federal public assistance funding for emergency work and the repair or replacement of damaged buildings and infrastructure. Funding is now also available through the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, which provides grants to states and local governments to implement long-term hazard mitigation measures after a major disaster declaration, in order to reduce the loss of life and property in future disasters.
07.30.2018	Washington, D.C. (July 30, 2018) -- Friday, Senators Cardin and Van Hollen and Representatives Cummings, Hoyer, Sarbanes, Delaney, Brown, Raskin and Ruppersberger, all Members of the Maryland Congressional Delegation, sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar and Office of Management and Budget Administrator Neomi Rao, requesting an extension for the public comment period for the proposed Title X gag rule. “We are writing to request that you extend the public comment period for the gag rule proposed by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for the Title X National Family Planning Program,” the Members wrote. “Stakeholders across the country, including in Maryland, have experienced difficulty in submitting electronic comments and have requested this extension to give them adequate time to analyze the proposed rule’s impact on women’s access to health care and provide meaningful comments to the Department.” The Title X National Family Planning Program was created in 1970 to provide low-income individuals with information and resources to help them make informed decisions about their health. On June 1, 2018, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) proposed a rule to severely restrict health care providers receiving Title X funds from informing women of the full range of health care options available to them and helping them access these services. The notice of proposed rulemaking provided a public comment period of just 60 days, which will end on July 31, 2018. This proposed rule would make a significant change to a program through which more than 4 million Americans received critical health care services, such as breast cancer screenings and HIV testing, in 2016. In Maryland, 75 Title X service sites serve more than70,000 individuals, including more than 16,000 individuals in Baltimore City alone. “It is essential that these patients, their health care providers, and other stakeholders have an opportunity to provide insightful, data-driven comments on the proposed gag rule—particularly given the detrimental effect it would have on women’s access to quality, comprehensive health care,” the Members wrote. “HHS’s proposed gag rule would upend the doctor-patient relationship for the millions of women who rely on Title X programs, leaving these women with fewer places to turn for honest advice and affordable family planning services and related preventive health care. The rule would prohibit doctors from discussing the full range of reproductive health care options with their patients or referring women to other qualified health care providers for abortion services.” “For these reasons, we respectfully request that you extend the public comment period for the proposed gag rule to October 1, 2018,” the Members asked. “We urge you to afford stakeholders the opportunity to provide HHS with the detailed, data-driven comments to guide the Administration as it develops policies that will affect millions of Americans.” Click here to read the full letter.
07.20.2018	Baltimore, MD (July 20, 2018) — Monday, July 23rd, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) will join Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Representatives Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes, as well as Baltimore City Health Commissioner Dr. Leana Wen and Mayor Catherine Pugh, at a press conference outlining the harm of potential Title X funding cuts due to the new “gag” rule. On June 1, 2018, the Department of Health and Human services proposed a rule to severely restrict the activities of health care providers receiving Title X funds by preventing them from informing women about the full range of healthcare options available to them, from referring patients to other qualified providers for abortion services, and from ensuring women have access to all forms of acceptable and “medically approved” birth control. “The changes made by this proposed rule would greatly impede women’s access to family planning resources and ensure that low-income women have fewer health care providers to rely upon for comprehensive, quality reproductive care,” Cummings said. “The Trump Administration is trying to insert itself into one of the most intimate conversations between a patient and health care provider. This is just another example of the Republican obsession with closing Planned Parenthood, and the Trump Administration’s all-out assault on health care.” WHAT: Press Conference on the Title X Domestic Gag Rule WHEN: Monday, July 23rd, 10:00 AM WHO: Congressman Elijah E. Cummings Senator Ben Cardin Senator Chris Van Hollen Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger Congressman John Sarbanes Mayor Catherine Pugh Dr. Leana Wen WHEN: Monday, July 23rd, 10:00 AM WHERE: Druid Clinic 1515 W. North Avenue Baltimore, MD 21217
07.16.2018	(Washington, DC) — Today, members of Maryland’s Democratic Congressional delegation urged President Donald Trump to consider Wendi Winters – a victim of the mass shooting in the Capital Gazette newsroom last month – for the Presidential Medal of Freedom. The nation’s highest civilian honor, the Medal of Freedom is awarded by the President to men and women who have made meritorious contributions to the security of the United States, to world peace, to culture or to other significant endeavors. Winters was among the five Capital Gazette employees killed in the June 28 shooting in Annapolis, Maryland. According to eyewitness accounts from survivors, Wendi armed herself with the closest weapons at hand – her trash and recycling bins – and charged the shooter, shouting for him to stop. It is believed that Wendi’s actions distracted the shooter enough to enable several of her coworkers to escape. “Previous Presidents have awarded the Medal of Freedom posthumously on dozens of occasions and we believe Wendi is a hero deserving of the same,” the delegation wrote. “She died not only protecting her colleagues, but in defense of the First Amendment.” A recent editorial from the Capital Gazette outlined Winters’ heroic acts and called on President Trump to award her the Presidential Medal of Freedom, which was established by President Truman in 1945 and was revived by President Kennedy in 1963. To date, President Trump has not yet awarded any Medals of Freedom. Maryland’s House delegation led a moment of silence on the House floor in honor of the Capital Gazette victims. U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen led a Senate resolution– passed unanimously – in honor of the victims: Gerald Fischman, Rob Hiaasen, John McNamara, Rebecca Smith and Wendi Winters. The letter was signed by Maryland Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen as well as Representatives Steny Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes, John Delaney, Anthony Brown and Jamie Raskin, all Democrats. The full text of the letter follows: July 16, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you are aware, it is the authority of the President of the United States to award the nation’s highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom. The President historically bestows this honor to men and women who have made especially meritorious contributions to the security and safety of his or her fellow citizens. As Senators and Representatives for the State of Maryland, we urge you to consider Wendi Winters for this great distinction. As you may know, Wendi was among the five victims who lost their lives in the mass shooting at the Capital Gazette newsroom on June 28, 2018, in Annapolis, Maryland. According to eyewitness accounts from survivors, Wendi armed herself with the closest weapons at hand – her trash and recycling bins – and charged the shooter, shouting for him to stop. It is believed that Wendi’s actions distracted the shooter enough to enable several of her coworkers to escape. In addition to dedicating her career to the betterment of her community, Wendi’s family is rooted in military tradition. She was the daughter of a Naval Academy graduate and the mother of three Navy officers. She sponsored numerous midshipman over the years. A Girl Scout leader, she also volunteered with the Red Cross and as a youth adviser at her church. Previous Presidents have awarded the Medal of Freedom posthumously on dozens of occasions and we believe Wendi is a hero deserving of the same. She died not only protecting her colleagues, but in defense of the First Amendment. Again, we enthusiastically recommend Wendi Winters for the Presidential Medal of Freedom and we look forward to your expeditious response. Sincerely, ###
07.09.2018	Washington, D.C. (July 9, 2018)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court: “This nomination carries even more weight than that of Neil Gorsuch, and confirming Judge Brett Kavanaugh would put in place an enduring conservative majority for decades to come. He will sharply curb—if not outright deny—a woman’s right to choose, take away affordable health care, further crumble the rights of organized labor, and erode voting rights. He will continue to apply the law unfairly to protect the rights of powerful corporations and the wealthy, but not the rights of minorities and the poor.” “I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take their responsibility seriously and stand up to President Trump. We must have a Justice who will apply the law fairly even for the most vulnerable among us, and not interpret it to protect the privileges of the most powerful. Judge Kavanaugh will not be that Justice.” ###
07.09.2018	Washington, D.C. (July 9, 2018) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, sent a letter to Kevin B. Quinn, Jr., the Maryland Transit Administrator, urging him to implement the recommendations issued by the Central Maryland Transportation Alliance (CMTA) to improve bus service in Baltimore. “In broad terms, it appears that the route changes implemented one year ago through the BaltimoreLink plan have made marginal improvements in a few aspects of MTA bus service.” Cummings wrote. “However, a re-design that is truly transformative – as the Link plan was supposed to be – would meaningfully expand the mobility of Baltimore residents and produce obvious improvements across many measures.” Last week, CMTA released a detailed report assessing the results of the bus route changes implemented over the past year as part of the BaltimoreLink plan. According to CMTA’s report, modest improvements were seen on a few measures. However, CMTA also found that “when averaged across all residents of greater Baltimore the number of jobs one can get to in 45 minutes or less using public transportation and walking went down by 6%.” To help the BaltimoreLink plan make the changes it promised, CMTA offered five recommendations, including: improve transparency and open data; prioritize transit; focus on frequency; reverse MTA budget cuts; and produce an excellent Central Maryland regional transit plan. “I urge the MTA to implement these important recommendations, including ensuring that the new Central Maryland Regional Transit Plan is truly a ‘goal-oriented, multi-modal plan through meaningful public involvement and stakeholder engagement,’” Cummings urged. “I also urge MTA to use this one-year anniversary to identify additional improvements that can be made to reduce travel times for residents and to commit the resources necessary to make truly transformational changes in MTA bus services.” Cummings also renewed his request from February of this year seeking information about the events that led MTA to shut down the Metro subway for emergency repairs as well as information about any unaddressed safety deficiency that may exist on the Metro subway or Light Rail. He also requested copies of any assessments of bus fleet maintenance and renewal needs produced by MTA staff or consultants at any time during the last two years. Click here to read today’s letter.
07.02.2018	Washington, D.C. (July 2, 2018) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cumming (D-MD) issued the following statement in recognition of Independence Day, which is Wednesday, July 4th. “On Independence Day we have the opportunity to celebrate and reflect on all of the freedoms we have as Americans. We live in a great country, but there is still work to be done. This holiday serves as a reminder that we have to keep fighting for freedoms for every person within our borders. I hope that Marylanders have a safe and festive Fourth of July. May God continue to bless America.” ###
05.29.2018	Washington, D.C. (May 29, 2018) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) received confirmation from the Treasury Department that the census tracts nominated by Governor Larry Hogan were designated as Opportunity Zones. These include 42 census tracts in Baltimore City and 10 tracts in Baltimore County. “I’m excited to see what the designation of these Opportunity Zones will do for Baltimore City and Baltimore County communities,” Cummings said. “I believe that these designations can help lift our poorest residents out of poverty and into the middle class.” The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that was passed last year created a new tax incentive for investment in businesses located in distressed communities. Investors may invest directly or indirectly in businesses located in Qualified Opportunity Zones – census tracts which generally have a poverty rate of at least 20 percent – and they will receive a tax benefit for all gains made from such investments. The Opportunity Zone statute empowered the chief executive officers of states and U.S. possessions to select among eligible population census tracts in their jurisdictions and to nominate their selections for designation as Qualified Opportunity Zones. The Community Development Financial Institutions Fund assists IRS in confirming the Eligibility of the nominated tracts and IRS then certifies the nominations and designates the tract so identified. On April 23, 2018, Cummings sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Mnuchin in support of the State of Maryland’s request to designate the 52 census tracts as Opportunity Zones under the new Opportunity Zone Program. He also wrote a letter to Governor Hogan in March requesting he designate Opportunity Zones in the greater Baltimore region.
05.28.2018	Washington, D.C. (May 28, 2018) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day: “While we commemorate another Memorial Day, let’s take a moment to remember the meaning of this day. It is a time for us to honor the brave men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice to protect our country. It is a time to be thankful for their service, and to honor them and their loved ones. It is because of these courageous Americans that we are able to enjoy this day with our friends and families. We must never forget their sacrifice.”
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Maryland’s bipartisan congressional delegation has written a joint letter to Secretary of the Treasury Steve Mnuchin and Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar in support of Maryland’s waiver for a state reinsurance program, which was authorized by the Maryland General Assembly earlier this year. Reinsurance is a reimbursement system that protects insurers from very high claims by having a third party (the federal or state government) pay part of the insurance company’s claims once they pass a certain amount. “The Governor and both Democratic and Republican leaders strongly support this effort to address premium costs and access to affordable healthcare in our state. The Maryland Insurance Administration estimates that the State Reinsurance Program would lower premium rates market-wide by as much as 30 percent and would lead to a reduction in federal payments of advance premium tax credits,” the Maryland lawmakers wrote in their letter. The letter to Treasury and HHS was signed by the full federal delegation, including U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Elijah Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Andy Harris, M.D., John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie Raskin. Earlier in May, the Maryland Insurance Administration (MIA) released the 2019 proposed rates for silver level health plans sold on the individual market. CareFirst has requested a premium rate increase of 18.5 percent for their HMO plans and a premium rate increase of 91.4 percent for their PPO plans. Kaiser Permanente requested a premium rate increase of 37.4 percent. These rates do not reflect the possibility of a state reinsurance program. MIA estimates that a state reinsurance program could have a premium reduction impact of 30 percent, which could result in 2019 rates being lower than 2018 rates. The full letter follows and can be found at this link. May 17, 2018 The Honorable Steven Mnuchin The Honorable Alex Azar Secretary of the Treasury Secretary of Health and Human Services Department of the Treasury Department of Health and Human Services 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20220 Washington, DC 20201 Dear Secretary Mnuchin and Secretary Azar, We write to request that the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services grant Maryland’s application for a Section 1332 State Innovation Waiver as soon as possible. We urge that this process include careful and thorough consideration of key stakeholder’s input such as the Maryland Medical Society. Earlier this year, the Maryland General Assembly voted to establish a state-based reinsurance program, the Maryland State Reinsurance Program. The Governor and both Democratic and Republican leaders strongly support this effort to address premium costs and access to affordable healthcare in our state. The Maryland Insurance Administration estimates that the State Reinsurance Program would lower premium rates market-wide by as much as 30 percent and would lead to a reduction in federal payments of advance premium tax credits. By contrast, without federal approval, rates for many individual market plans could increase substantially. The matter is urgent because the Maryland Insurance Administration must finalize the approval of the individual market rates by September 1, 2018. Accordingly, on behalf of our constituents, we urge you to complete your consideration of Maryland’s waiver application as soon as possible. Sincerely, ###
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON – During the height of National Police Week, Team Maryland gathered as a bipartisan delegation Wednesday for a dialogue with federal law enforcement partners based in Maryland, including the newly confirmed U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland Robert K. Hur. Also joining the meeting were the Maryland Special Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), along with Maryland Public Safety and Correctional Services Secretary Stephen Moyer, Maryland’s Director of Homeland Security Peter Landon, and the Director of the [Baltimore] Mayor’s Office on Criminal Justice Andrew Vetter. At the top of the agenda was a discussion of the spike in violent crime in Baltimore City, as well as the federal-state-local partnership to combat drugs and illegal guns statewide. There was a thorough review of the specific challenges communities are facing due to gang activity. Across all topics was an overwhelming call for strong partnership among all levels of government and law enforcement. “I thank all of our law enforcement leaders for their service and the sacrifices they make to keep Marylanders safe. It is abundantly clear that we must work to maintain strong partnership at the federal, state, and local levels to achieve significant reductions in crime for Baltimore and statewide. It is unacceptable to me how many lives are lost, and how many families are destroyed and scarred forever, due to deadly violence,” said Senator Ben Cardin. “As a federal delegation, we delivered a clear message to our law enforcement partners that we will continue to strongly support their needed funding for federal, state, and local law enforcement programs to combat gun violence, gang violence, and drug and opioid addiction. We also must do everything possible to promote a constructive dialogue between law enforcement and the communities they protect.” “During National Police Week, I was glad to join my colleagues in the Maryland Delegation to meet with U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland Robert Hur and other federal law enforcement officials,” said Congressman Steny Hoyer. “I appreciated the opportunity to discuss the ways we can work together to improve the safety of our citizens. We must continue to provide support for the men and women who protect our communities.” “Our federal law enforcement team in Maryland helps ensure the safety and security of our communities. Working together across all levels of government is crucial to addressing crime, violence, opioid abuse, and other challenges Maryland faces,” U.S. Senator Chris Van Hollen said. “I am committed to continuing to work with our local, state, and federal partners to move forward on these issues. And in my role on the Senate Appropriations Committee, I will keep fighting for the resources Maryland needs to get this done.” “I want to thank Maryland’s new U.S. Attorney, Robert Hur, and representatives from federal law enforcement agencies for meeting with the Maryland congressional delegation today,” said Congressman Elijah Cummings. “I look forward to supporting continued efforts to address critical issues in our state, including reducing violent crime in Baltimore and stopping illicit drug trafficking. I know these officials are committed to upholding the rule of law, and I hope they will continue pursuing justice with independence, impartiality, and fairness.” “If we are going to tackle issues like Baltimore City’s crime rate and our state-wide gang problem head-on, we need seamless coordination between our state and federal law enforcement partners,” Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger said. “My focus is on how I can best assist our new U.S. Attorney and our local field offices of the FBI, ATF and DEA as a House Appropriator.” “I really enjoyed meeting Maryland’s new U.S. Attorney, Robert Hur, today,” said Congressman John Sarbanes. “We had an important and wide-ranging conversation about how we can keep Maryland’s communities safe.” “With 343 homicides last year and 523 opioid-related deaths from January to September, Baltimore City is in crisis. As lawmakers, we must work with our federal, state, and local law enforcement to curb these epidemics of violence and substance abuse, and to prevent the spread of violence to neighboring communities,” Congressman Andy Harris said. “Thank you to U.S. Attorney Hur and Special Agents Board, Colder, and Johnson for their continued service and commitment to keeping Maryland safe. Together, we can make Baltimore City safe and prosperous again.” “I appreciated the opportunity to meet with our federal law enforcement officials and hear firsthand about the work they’re doing, the challenges they face, and how we can work together to protect communities throughout Maryland,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “I was pleased to meet Maryland’s new U.S. Attorney Robert Hur and representatives from the FBI, ATF, and DEA at today’s Maryland delegation meeting,” said Congressman Jamie Raskin. “We had a productive and informative conversation about a variety of critical issues facing our state, and I look forward to working with all of them in the future to protect the public and defend the independence and integrity of our justice system.” “The mission of the United States Attorney’s Office is to reduce crime and to make our communities safer. Strong partnerships and close collaboration with our state, local, and federal law enforcement partners are critical to achieving our goals. My office is committed to continuing and strengthening these partnerships,” said Robert K. Hur, U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland. “The Hogan Administration is committed to working with our federal partners to address violent crime in Baltimore City. At Governor Hogan’s direction, over 200 Maryland Parole and Probation agents are working directly with the Baltimore Police Department to assist with locating and arresting violent offenders,” said Stephen T. Moyer, Secretary of the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services. “State law enforcement agencies recently partnered with the U.S. Marshals and other federal partners to conduct joint operations resulting in over 500 arrests in Baltimore City, including numerous violent offenders. It will take all of us working together – at the federal, state, and local levels – to put a stop to the violence terrorizing our communities.”
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Ben Cardin and U.S. Rep. Elijah Cummings (both D-Md.) have reintroduced legislation that would direct the U.S. Attorney General to award competitive grants to protect witnesses in violent crimes. The Witness Security and Protection Grant Program Act of 2018 (S. 2855/H.R. 5834) establishes a program geared to state and local governments to establish and maintain short-term witness protection programs in cases involving homicides, violent felonies, serious drug offenses, gang related crimes or organized crime. Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh and Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh have expressed support for this bicameral legislation. “We need to empower local and state prosecutors with the resources they need to protect the very witnesses who are essential to their investigations and keep criminals off our streets,” said Senator Cardin. “Witnesses want to do the right thing and testify, but they need to know that they and their families are safe from harm. This legislation will help ensure that prosecutors in Baltimore and elsewhere around the country are not stymied in their efforts to protect our communities.” “For over a decade, I have pushed for more federal resources to secure the safe cooperation of witnesses,” Congressman Cummings said. “Without witnesses who feel safe working with police officers, the wheels of justice come to a screeching halt. We have seen people intimidated and even killed in Baltimore and elsewhere for trying to help bring about justice. This legislation will help state and local governments provide the specific kinds of services needed to protect witnesses and ensure they feel safe enough to testify in court.” According to the Baltimore Sun, in the last week Baltimore reached a milestone of 100 homicides for 2018, “marking the second-fastest pace of killings in the city in a decade. At the current pace of violence, the city is likely to surpass 300 homicides for the fourth year in a row. Prior to the surge in killings that began in 2015, the city hadn’t seen 300 homicides in a single year since the 1990s.” The Witness Security and Protection Grant Program Act would provide $150 million in competitive grants -- $30 million a year for five years -- to state, local and tribal governments to establish witness assistance programs. The bill also requires the Attorney General to collect data and best practices from the grantees and report this information back to Congress, States and other relevant entities. The Attorney General is also directed to ensure that, as practicable, grants are given to an equitable geographical distribution of programs throughout the country. This is the third Congress that Cardin and Cummings have teamed up for a bicameral introduction of such legislation. The full text of the legislation can be downloaded here: Senate version. House version.
05.10.2018	Baltimore, MD (May 10, 2018) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released the following statement on the passing of Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz: “Kevin Kamenetz was a dedicated public servant who worked tirelessly to better Baltimore County and our state. I am saddened to learn of his passing, and cannot help but think of all the work he still wanted to accomplish. I will miss his fighting spirit for his constituents and his drive to push our community forward. My deepest condolences to his wife and children.”
05.03.2018	Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released the following statement supporting the work of the Baltimore City Health Department and Public Citizen for combatting the skyrocketing price of naloxone: “I commend the Baltimore Health Department and Public Citizen for working to combat the skyrocketing price of naloxone. The President’s own Opioid Commission recommended that the Trump Administration negotiate directly with drug companies to lower these prices, but President Trump has ignored this recommendation for the better part of a year while communities like Baltimore are forced to ration their supplies. It is time to put the interests of the American people over the interests of drug companies and their massive profits—especially as we battle the worst health epidemic our nation has experienced in decades. As a country, we must do better than this.”
04.30.2018	Baltimore, MD (April 28, 2018) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) announced that Ms. Katherine Harris, a Junior at Centennial High School in Howard County, is the winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for the 7th Congressional District of Maryland. Ms. Harris’ piece, entitled “Self Portrait in Pashmina,” will be displayed at the U.S. Capitol for one year alongside the works of other winners of the Congressional Art Competition from across the country. The runner-up in the 7th District competition was Ms. Hallé Anderson, a Senior at Western School of Technology and Environmental Science, for her piece, “Universal Love.” “Every year I am amazed by the talent in the 7th District during the Congressional Art Competition,” Cummings said. “I congratulate Ms. Harris, and all of the winners of the Curator Choice Awards. Your creativity is inspiring. I expect that you will create great work in the future.” Several young artists also received Curator’s Choice Awards: American Visionary Art Museum: Anael Hester Baltimore Museum of Art: David Warren Eubie Blake Cultural Center: Julia Aldred Maryland Institute College of Art: Amya Bailey National Great Blacks in Wax Museum: Ikem Booker Reginald Lewis Museum: Abbigail Hong Walters Art Museum: Najja Akinwole Initiated by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and sponsored by the Congressional Institute, the Congressional Art Competition recognizes and encourages artistic talent in the nation. To participate, high school students submit entries to their Representative’s office, and each district selects a winning entry, which is then displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol.
04.23.2018	Washington, D.C. (April 23, 2018) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin in support of the State of Maryland’s request to designate census tracts in the greater Baltimore region as Opportunity Zones under the newly enacted Opportunity Zones program. Maryland’s Governor, Larry Hogan, has nominated 149 Opportunity Zones across the state of Maryland, including 42 census tracts in Baltimore City and 10 tracts in Baltimore County. “Living in these nominated census tracts are some of Maryland’s poorest citizens, who would benefit immensely from increased investment in their communities,” Cummings wrote. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed last year created a new tax incentive for investment in businesses located in distressed communities. Investors may invest directly or indirectly in businesses located in Qualified Opportunity Zones – census tracts which generally have a poverty rate of at least 20 percent – and they will receive a tax benefit for all gains made from such investments. “As Treasury Secretary, you have the authority to certify these nominated tracts as Opportunity Zones, helping to lift many out of poverty and into the middle class,” Cummings continued. “I urge you to do so.” On March 7, 2018, Congressman Cummings wrote to Governor Hogan requesting he designate Opportunity Zones in the greater Baltimore region.
04.18.2018	Washington, D.C. (Apr. 17, 2018)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released a Democratic staff report on the specific effects of the new Republican tax law on homeowners in Baltimore City, Baltimore County, and Howard County in Maryland. “On December 22, 2017, President Donald Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, stating: “I consider this very much a bill for the middle-class.” That same week, he called the Republican tax law “an incredible Christmas gift for hardworking Americans.” No Democrats in the House of Representatives or the Senate supported final passage of the bill. “In fact,” according to today’s report, “the Republican tax law imposes significant new financial punishments on middle-class American homeowners across the country, while essentially using the funds raised by these tax increases to help pay for lucrative new tax breaks for real estate developers.” According to the report: None of the approximately 399,600 homeowners currently living in Baltimore City, Baltimore County, and Howard County will be allowed to claim deductions for interest on home equity loans they use for any purposes other than home improvement. Beginning in 2018, about 64,100 homeowners in Baltimore City, Baltimore County, and Howard County with existing home equity loans will not be allowed to claim full home equity interest deductions as they did in the past. Although 294,400 homeowners in Baltimore City, Baltimore County, and Howard County used to be able to deduct their full property taxes, about 149,300 no longer will be allowed to do so. “Although President Trump and Republicans in Congress imposed sharp new financial penalties on middle-class American homeowners, they granted commercial real estate developers new tax breaks and loopholes worth billions of dollars,” the report states. “Under the new Republican tax law, real estate developers are now allowed to take new deductions on pass-through income, pay dividends that are taxed at reduced rates, enjoy an exemption from a provision that otherwise limits businesses from deducting interest, and utilize an exemption to avoid paying taxes on property exchanges.” “President Trump and Republicans in Congress made a clear choice last year when they enacted their tax bill,” the report concludes. “They chose to take away longstanding tax deductions that middle-class American homeowners have relied on for decades while at the same time lavishing lucrative new tax breaks on real estate developers. Although President Trump, his family, and even some lawmakers who voted in favor of this legislation personally may reap huge financial windfalls from these changes, the result is just the opposite for many middle-class American families who have spent their lives faithfully investing in their single biggest asset—their home.”
04.17.2018	Washington, D.C. (Apr. 17, 2018)—Today, Reps. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), and Don Beyer (D-VA) sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions seeking information about allegations that the Executive Office for Immigration Review and the Department of Justice are engaging in illegal political discrimination when hiring immigration judges and members of the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA). “We are writing to express our grave concern regarding allegations we have received from whistleblowers indicating that the Department of Justice may be using ideological and political considerations to improperly—and illegally—block the hiring of immigration judges and members of the Board of Immigration Appeals,” the Members wrote. The Members noted in their letter that basing hiring decisions on ideology or political affiliation violates federal law and Department policy. “These allegations are extremely troubling not only because they may violate federal law and repeat the mistakes of the past, but also because they further aggravate the critical need for more immigration judges and BIA officials to address the massive backlogs in immigration hearings across the country,” the Members wrote. In 2008, an investigation conducted by the Inspector General and the Office of Professional Responsibility found that aides to then-Attorney General Alberto Gonzales “considered political or ideological affiliations” when evaluating immigration judge candidates and candidates for the BIA. The report warned that “both Department policy and federal law prohibit discrimination in hiring for career positions on the basis of political affiliations.” “Our offices recently received information alleging that the Department of Justice has targeted multiple candidates for immigration judge or BIA positions based on their perceived political or ideological views. These candidates reportedly have had their offers suspended or withdrawn due to these improper considerations,” the Members wrote. “We have confirmed that the Department has delayed multiple offers for these positions for unusually long amounts of time and, in one case, withdrew an offer with an explanation that raises suspicions about the actual motive for the withdrawal.” The Members requested a list of candidates for immigration judge or BIA positions that have been pending for more than one year, individuals who have been given appointments as immigration judges or appointed to the BIA since January 20, 2017, and candidates who passed background checks for these positions but have not been given appointments or had their offers withdrawn. Click here to read the full letter.
04.04.2018	Washington, D.C. (April 3, 2018) – Today Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement honoring the 50th anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s death. “50 years ago today, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was taken from us too soon. His assassination sparked outrage, distress and mourning across the country. Some of us felt like we had lost hope, that with Dr. King’s death his message and movement had died too. However, many of us chose to pick up his fight for civil rights to ensure that this nation lives up to its promise of liberty and justice for all. “Dr. King worked to further equality for everyone, no matter their race, gender, creed or class. While we have made progress toward his mission, there is still much work to be done. There are far too many Americans who still don’t make a living wage. They do not have access to basic health care or equal educational opportunities. They cannot vote without obstruction and are fearful to walk down the street. “Although there are many obstacles yet to overcome, I see hope in our future. I believe Dr. King’s dream can and will be achieved. During this sobering anniversary, I urge us as a nation to remember Dr. King by rededicating ourselves to continuing his fight towards equality and justice for all Americans.”
04.02.2018	For Immediate Release April 2, 2018 Contact: Alexa Papadopoulos, 202-225-4741 ***ADVISORY*** Cummings to Host 21st Annual Job Fair Baltimore MD – On Monday, April 9th from 9:00 AM – 2:00 PM, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) will host his 21st annual job fair. More than 100 employers will participate to discuss job opportunities and give honest candidate evaluations. Attendees will be able to participate in workshops to help navigate the employment process. These workshops will cover a variety of topics including ex-offender re-entry, employing millennials and gaining federal employment. A list of participating employers and the job fair agenda can be found here. Attendees should come prepared with multiple copies of their resumes. Transportation information can be found here. WHAT: Congressman Cummings’ 21st Annual Job Fair WHEN: Monday, April 9th from 9:00 AM – 2:00 PM WHERE: Morgan State University Hill Field House 1700 E. Cold Spring Lane Baltimore, Maryland 21251
03.28.2018	Washington, D.C. (Mar. 28, 2018) -- Today, Senators Cardin and Van Hollen and Congressmen Cummings, Sarbanes, and Brown, all Members of the Maryland congressional Delegation, and District of Columbia Representative Eleanor Holmes Norton sent a letter to Governor Larry Hogan requesting detailed information about the State’s regulation of the proposed Hyperloop Project, including the regulatory standards that will apply to the project as well as the environmental and other reviews that will be required before the project is permitted to proceed. “While the Hyperloop is an exciting project that has the potential to transform transportation along the entire U.S. East Coast, it is also a project that would utilize a wholly new technology and could have significant impacts on our constituents,” the Members wrote. “As we assess the project and the numerous competing plans for the Baltimore-Washington corridor, we seek additional information that will enable us to understand how the proposed Hyperloop would be regulated, as well as the opportunities our constituents will have to provide comments and feedback on the project.” Noting the lack of readily available information on the project, the Members posed 15 questions about the State’s involvement in the project, including questions about why a project that describes itself as a “a high-speed underground public transportation system” was given a utility permit, whether tunneling for the project would trigger reviews under the National Environmental Policy Act, and how the project would be regulated if it began carrying fare-paying passengers. The Members requested answers to their questions by April 20. “We appreciate that we are asking for a lot of information,” wrote the Members. “However, we believe that this information is essential to enabling us to understand how the State will ensure that adequate safeguards will be in place during all planning and construction phases of the Hyperloop, that all required environmental reviews will be completed, and that our constituents will have the opportunity to provide their opinions and ask their questions about this major project.” The full text of the letter can be found below and here. The text of the letter: March 28, 2018 The Honorable Larry Hogan Governor State of Maryland 100 State Circle Annapolis, MD 21401 Dear Governor Hogan: We are writing to request detailed information about the proposed Hyperloop project. While the Hyperloop is an exciting project that has the potential to transform transportation along the entire U.S. East Coast, it is also a project that would utilize a wholly new technology and could have significant impacts on our constituents. As we assess the project and the numerous competing plans for the Baltimore-Washington corridor, we seek additional information that will enable us to understand how the proposed Hyperloop would be regulated, as well as the opportunities our constituents will have to provide comments and feedback on the project. According to the description provided on the Boring Company’s website, the Hyperloop would be “a high-speed underground public transportation system.” The Boring Company’s website shows a projected route for the “parallel, twin underground tunnels” that would carry the Hyperloop “for approximately 35 miles from downtown DC to downtown Baltimore, beneath New York Avenue and then the Baltimore-Washington Parkway.” The Baltimore-Washington Parkway (BW Parkway) “is a 29-mile route” between Baltimore, Maryland, and Washington, DC. Ownership and management of the road “is divided between the NPS [National Park Service] and the Maryland SHA [State Highway Administration].” According to a feasibility study published in 2012, “Maryland SHA owns and operates the northern 10-mile section between I-695 and MD 175” while “NPS owns and operates the southern 19-mile section between MD 175 and New York Avenue/U.S. Route 50 and the boundary with the District of Columbia.” Despite the fact that the Hyperloop project identifies itself as a public transportation system, last October, the Maryland Department of Transportation (MDOT) reportedly gave “conditional approval to the construction of a tunnel from Baltimore to Washington” for the project by issuing a utility permit. Your spokesman, Doug Mayer, is quoted as providing the following information about the conditional approval: “It’s called a utility permit. That’s all they need to do the digging . . . . It’s a private company, privately financed. The costs to the state will be extremely limited, if anything at all. The state has been working with them for multiple months on the permit process.” In a letter to State Senator Ed DeGrange, Maryland’s Assistant Attorney General David Stamper reportedly called into question the claim that all that is required to dig the tunnel through which the Hyperloop would travel is a utility permit. Mr. Stamper wrote that Hyperloop “is not a utility under federal standards or SHA’s federally-approved utility accommodation policies.” He opined: “I do not believe SHA can authorize the construction of the proposed ‘transportation tunnels’ within the BW Parkway right-of-way by issuing a utility permit.” Mr. Stamper also “pointed out that any proposal to grant a utility easement through state-owned property ‘must undergo a review and comment process . . . and an easement agreement must be presented to and approved by the Board of Public Works.’” The claim that Hyperloop is a utility also appears to be called into question by an event planned by the American Enterprise Institute (AEI) entitled “Is hyperloop the future of transportation?” in which MDOT Secretary Pete Rahn will be participating. The webpage announcing this event characterizes the Hyperloop as “a new form of high-speed tube transportation.” Secretary Rahn is scheduled to give the keynote address at the event and to participate in a discussion of the Hyperloop project. Given the lack of publically available information – and the apparent readiness of Secretary Rahn to address the “technology, security, and policy questions associated with the hyperloop” at a public forum next month – we would like to receive by April 20 answers to the following questions: • The Hyperloop’s creators have characterized the system as “a high-speed underground public transportation system.” Why was a system that characterizes itself as a “public transportation system” given a utility permit by the State of Maryland? • What reviews, including environmental reviews, were conducted before the State issued a utility permit to the Hyperloop? Were any public comments solicited or received during the course of those reviews? • In light of the Attorney General’s opinion that the Hyperloop cannot be regulated as a utility, will Maryland subject the Hyperloop to any regulatory process other than that imposed on utilities? If so, to what regulatory process will the Hyperloop be subjected? • Are there any permits other than those imposed on utilities that the Hyperloop has sought from the State of Maryland? If so, what permits has it sought, what entities are considering the requests, and in what stage of the regulatory process is each request at the present time? • If the Hyperloop began carrying fare-paying passengers, would it still be regulated as a utility? Which Maryland entity would then regulate the project? • If the Hyperloop began carrying fare-paying passengers, would it be classified as a railroad or a public transit entity? Would it be subject to regulation by the Federal Railroad Administration, the Federal Transit Administration, or any other Federal entity? • Has Maryland had any contact with the Federal entities that would regulate either the construction or operation of the Hyperloop? If so, with which entities has the State had contact and is the State working with any of these entities to identify the appropriate regulatory scheme for the Hyperloop? • Given that the projected right-of-way for the Hyperloop would be under the BW Parkway, which includes segments owned and managed by both the State of Maryland and the National Park Service, what discussions has Maryland had with the National Park Service regarding the reviews and permits that the project must obtain? • What environmental laws apply to the project and which environmental reviews are required under Maryland State law and Federal law? Have the sponsors of the Hyperloop submitted any environmental reviews or documentation to the State? • Has MDOT, or any other public agency (State or Federal), officially determined that digging the tunnels proposed for the Hyperloop does not constitute a major Federal action that would trigger the requirements of National Environmental Policy Act? • Has MDOT determined whether the tunnels, as proposed to be dug, are within the I-295 right-of-way? If so, does MDOT assume liability for the project within its right-of-way? • What engineering analyses has MDOT conducted (or contracted) to ensure that any tunnel digging does not compromise the roadway? What protections are in place for the State, should the digging result in any problems for the road? • Has MDOT expended any Federal funds on I-295? If so, please provide the total amount of federal expenditures for each of the last 10 years. • How are Maryland authorities ensuring effective regulatory, environmental, and engineering coordination between the Hyperloop, the proposed Maglev and the proposed toll lanes on 295? • Given the positive statements made by you and representatives of MDOT about the proposed Maglev, it seems that you support both projects. Can you explain how these projects will operate simultaneously especially in terms of right-of-way usage and customer base? We appreciate that we are asking for a lot of information. However, we believe that this information is essential to enabling us to understand how the State will ensure that adequate safeguards will be in place during all planning and construction phases of the Hyperloop, that all required environmental reviews will be completed, and that our constituents will have the opportunity to provide their opinions and ask their questions about this major project. Thank you for your consideration of these requests. Sincerely, Benjamin L. Cardin Chris Van Hollen U.S. Senator U.S. Senator Elijah E. Cummings Eleanor Holmes Norton Member of Congress Member of Congress John P. Sarbanes Anthony G. Brown Member of Congress Member of Congress
03.08.2018	Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released the following statement in recognition of International Women’s Day: “Today, we celebrate and honor women for their achievements throughout history and across the globe. Because of the courage and determination of so many women, a historic transformation is underway. However, this year’s International Women’s Day theme, #PressforProgress, speaks to how much more still needs to be done to ensure that all women are treated equally and fairly and that their voices are heard. As I remember the many battles my mother, Ruth Cummings, endured, I will continue to fight for policies that will guarantee equality in pay, access to healthcare, and protection against sexual assault and abuse, so that future generations of women will not have to struggle and sacrifice to contribute fully to our society.”
02.23.2018	Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, sent letters to the MTA and the State Safety Oversight (SSO) Program requesting documents regarding the shutdown of the Baltimore Metro subway. Cummings seeks detailed information about what specifically prompted the MTA to shut down the Metro subway through March 11 for emergency repairs. "Safety must always be the highest priority in any transit operation and any unsafe condition must be immediately remedied. For that reason, I am deeply concerned that the MTA’s own documentation suggests that unsafe conditions may have existed for some time on the Metro subway. I want to understand if that was indeed the case and, if the Metro subway has been operated while an unsafe condition existed, I would like to understand what specifically prompted the immediate shutdown announced by the MTA,” said Congressman Cummings. “I also want to understand whether the State Safety Oversight entity is fully aware of all safety issues on the Metro subway and Light Rail systems and is taking appropriate steps to require safe operation of both systems.” Cummings previously wrote to the SSO in August 2016 seeking information about safety deficiencies at any Metro stations identified in the previous five years.
02.21.2018	Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released the following statement on the passing of evangelist and spiritual counselor Rev. Billy Graham: “Today I join with people around the globe in mourning the loss of Billy Graham and I offer my sincere condolences to his family. Rev. Graham was a visionary spiritual leader whose preaching and teachings touched the lives of millions from all walks of life and brought them closer to God. He was called America’s pastor because he made his messages of the joy found in faith relatable to everyone. Mr. Graham once said, ‘The greatest legacy one can pass on to one's children and grandchildren is not money or other material things accumulated in one's life, but rather a legacy of character and faith.’ Thankfully, he leaves that legacy for us all.”
02.15.2018	Baltimore, MD (February 15, 2018)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released the following statement in response to the shooting at a Florida high school that left 17 dead and 15 injured: “Yesterday’s mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School is a horrific tragedy that must be a call to action for all Americans. May God watch over the victims, their families, and everyone in the community who will bear the scars of trauma from this terrible day. From current reports, the Florida shooter bought his AR-15 assault rifle legally. When our laws do not stop these repeated acts of mass slaughter, we must change our laws. “We must also recognize that scientific evidence is abundantly clear: mental illness is not a predictor of violence against others. Gun violence and mental illness are distinct issues and they require distinct solutions. Congressional inaction on any measure to reduce gun violence has long been unforgivable. I will continue to call on Speaker Ryan to bring to the floor common sense legislation that would help prevent the insane frequency of mass shootings in America.”
01.30.2018	Baltimore, MD (January 30, 2018)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s first State of the Union address: “The American people witnessed a failed sales pitch tonight. President Trump tried to paint a pretty picture, but it does not reflect the grim reality our country faces under his Administration. “Under President Trump, the Republicans in Congress have enacted legislation giving a massive tax cut to millionaires and corporations while ballooning the national debt. And the President remains determined to spend tens of billions of taxpayer dollars to erect a wall we don’t need while threatening to kick out young and hopeful Dreamers who only know America as home. “The President promised a trillion-dollar investment in infrastructure, but following a year in office, we’ve seen zero progress. He has failed to provide the investments we need to rebuild America’s crumbling bridges and broken transit systems. So when he says he wants to work with Congress to repair our roads, I find it difficult to take the President at his word. Further, as a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, I know that if we rely on private investment or states and localities to front the cost of new construction, Americans will be charged millions in new tolls, fees and taxes as a result. “Tonight, the President promised that his top priority this year will be lowering prescription drug prices. I await his actions on this crucial necessity as I did when he made this promise last year. “What I find even more troubling is the President believes that his Administration’s repeated attacks on our judicial system, our intelligence and law enforcement agencies, our international allies, our public health system, our newest Americans and our environment have made the State of our American Union stronger. “Americans are a strong and optimistic people, but honesty demands that we acknowledge that our Union has become less strong and less united since President Trump and his attack machine gained office. “The American People deserve a Chief Executive who puts the Constitution above every other consideration and a President who speaks the truth and acts on that truth for the benefit of all.”
01.29.2018	Baltimore, MD (January 29, 2018)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released the following statement to provide an update on the condition of his leg injury: “I am deeply grateful for the outpouring of support and encouragement I have received from countless well-wishers during my recovery. I am currently completing intensive physical therapy and being treated with antibiotics after undergoing two consecutive surgeries on my left knee due to an infection caused by a ruptured Baker’s cyst and gout. I am getting stronger every day and am extremely eager to return to Capitol Hill upon receipt of my doctors’ consent. In the meantime, I continue to work closely with my fellow Members of Congress and my staff to serve my constituents and do everything possible to uplift the lives of all Americans. I thank all of my health professionals for their incredible care.”
01.12.2018	Today, the Maryland Delegation sent a letter to Governor Larry Hogan inquiring about the Governor’s plans to protect Marylanders from the impact of the Republican tax bill’s cap of the State and Local Tax deduction. Congressman Cummings was joined in the letter by Senators Van Hollen and Cardin and Congressmen Hoyer, Brown, Delaney, Raskin, Ruppersberger, and Sarbanes. The group released the letter today at a roundtable held by Senator Van Hollen and Congressmen Hoyer and Brown that focused on hearing constituent and business concerns on the tax bill. “We are writing to ask about your plans to respond to the double-taxation imposed by the new federal cap on the state and local tax deduction, and to offer our assistance as needed,” the Members wrote. “We understand that you are exploring ways to prevent increases in Maryland state income taxes due to the linkages between the state and federal tax code, but we would like to know if you plan to protect Marylanders from higher federal taxes as well.” Additionally, the Members highlighted the specific impact this will have on Marylanders, writing, “According to the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, over 360,000 Maryland households will get a tax increase under the new tax law in 2019. Maryland is one of the states hit hardest by the new tax law, due in large part to the new $10,000 limit on the state and local tax deduction. According to the IRS, 46% of households in Maryland claim the state and local tax deduction, which is the largest share of any state in the country. The average state and local tax deduction in Maryland is $12,931 – well over the $10,000 limit.” The group pointed to proactive measures other states are taking, describing the policies proposed by California, New Jersey, and New York. They close the letter stating that, “We stand ready to help in any way possible, and look forward to hearing your plans to respond.” The full text of the letter is available here.
01.08.2018	January 8, 2018—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement condemning the Trump Administration’s decision to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Salvadorans in September 2019 and urging the passage of legislation to codify protections for Salvadorans, Haitians, Nicaraguans, and other TPS recipients living in the United States: “The Trump administration has decided to continue its cruel immigration policy with today’s announcement ending TPS for hundreds of thousands of Salvadorans living in the United States. I have said time and again that ending TPS cruelly and needlessly upends the lives of these individuals and the lives of their children while adding to the profound challenges that El Salvador, and other TPS-designated countries, continue to face. Today’s decision harms regional stability and does not reflect the reality on the ground in El Salvador. “TPS recipients have been repeatedly and thoroughly vetted by the United States. They have become an integral part of our society and many have U.S. citizen children. The administration has decided it is more important to destroy families rather than protect them by allowing these individuals to remain in the United States. “Congress must act to protect TPS recipients. I again call upon Speaker Ryan to bring legislation to the floor that will protect these individuals from removal, protect Dreamers, and enact comprehensive immigration reform.”
01.05.2018	Congressman Cummings was admitted to Johns Hopkins Hospital for a bacterial infection in his knee. Doctors drained the infection in a minor procedure today. He is resting comfortably and expects a full recovery.
01.04.2018	Baltimore, MD (January 4, 2018)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on President Trump’s decision to dissolve the administration’s “Election Integrity” Commission: “The President’s ‘Election Integrity’ Commission never should have been formed, and its dissolution was long past overdue. This Commission wasted taxpayer dollars to justify a lie of widespread voter fraud and impose abusive new voter suppression laws. In the process, the Commission and Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach likely violated ethics and privacy rules. We must remain vigilant. We need to focus on protecting our elections, ensuring the security of our infrastructure, fighting voter suppression, and expanding access to the ballot box. Americans have died for the right to vote, and I will continue to do everything in my power to safeguard this sacred right.”
12.27.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen and Congressmen Elijah Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) today released the following joint statement: “We are disappointed by the refusal of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to take the lead in investigating the murder of Baltimore Police Department Detective Sean Suiter. While we appreciate the FBI contention that no evidence exists to suggest that Det. Suiter’s homicide was directly connected to the corruption probe in which he was to testify, the reality remains that little-to-no progress has been made in identifying his killer(s). This means that his family, colleagues and community still lack the peace of mind and sense of justice that would accompany a successful resolution of this investigation, underscoring that the full resources and attention of the federal government remain required to solve this case. We expect that the FBI and other federal agencies that have been cooperating in this investigation will remain fully engaged until justice is delivered, and that the FBI stands ready to immediately reconsider its decision to assume leadership of the investigation should any new evidence suggest it is merited.”
12.20.2017	Washington, DC (December 20, 2017)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released the following statement on the House revote of the Republican tax bill: “If you are a middle class American, or someone working to get into the middle class, this Republican tax bill is a scam. Republicans advertised their plan as helping the middle class, but it actually helps President Trump, his family, and his filthy rich corporate friends beyond their wildest dreams. This is one of the biggest transfers of wealth to the rich in the history of our country. Even worse than this kleptocracy, the bill explodes the deficit by more than a trillion dollars, and Republicans are already using this fact—which they created—as a pretext to slash key programs that middle class families rely on every single day, like Medicare and Social Security. When you add up all the numbers, this bill hurts middle class families—especially people of color—so Republicans can lavish hundreds of billions of dollars on President Trump and his rich corporate friends.”
12.15.2017	Baltimore, MD (December 15, 2017) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) announced the winner of the 2017 Congressional App Challenge for Maryland’s 7th Congressional District. Luke Mann, who attends Marriotts Ridge High School, won the challenge for his app Damage Analysis of Puerto Rico Using Satellite Imagery. Luke’s app works to solve problems like coordinating disaster relief and deploying resources effectively and efficiently. “I am delighted to host the Congressional App Challenge each year because it is such a tremendous opportunity for students in my district to use their ingenuity to create an app and become more engaged in computer science,” Cummings said. “Luke’s app is very impressive and shows his clear desire to use his skills to enhance disaster relief in the future. I am certain he will inspire other students at Marriotts Ridge High School with his creativity and passion to help those in need.” The contest was open to high school students in the Seventh Congressional District of Maryland and is designed to promote innovation and engagement in coding and computer science. Students competed against their peers by creating an application or “app,” for mobile, tablet or computer devices. Submissions were judged on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The five judges who helped pick the winners were Ms. Beth Sappe with Baltimore City Public Schools, Ms. Sharon Kramer with the Howard County Public School System, Dr. Jayfus Doswell with Juxtopia, LLC, Dr. Ali Emdad with Morgan State University, and Mr. Jordan Snyder with the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. Video of Luke demonstrating his app is available here. Luke’s app will be featured on display in the United States Capitol Building and available online at the House of Representatives website.
12.01.2017	Washington, DC (December 1, 2017)– U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen and Congressmen Elijah Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) today released the following joint statement: “We support the request of Baltimore City Police Commissioner Kevin Davis for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to take the lead in investigating the murder of Detective Sean Suiter. We also have heard personally from Mayor Catherine Pugh, who requested federal support for an FBI investigation. We thank our federal partners at the FBI, DEA, ATF and the U.S. Attorney’s office for their assistance thus far in this case. We now need the full resources and attention of the federal government brought to bear in order to solve this case, bring the suspects to justice, and provide answers to the public and Detective Suiter’s family.”
11.30.2017	Baltimore, MD (November 30, 2017) – Today, during National Alzheimer’s Awareness Month, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) celebrated the U.S. Postal Service’s release of the Alzheimer’s Semipostal stamp and honored the advocates who made the creation of this stamp possible. Joined by Director of Memory and Alzheimer’s Treatment Center Dr. Constantine G. Lyketsos, Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center President Dr. Richard Bennett, Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer Megan J. Brennan and NIH Deputy Director of the National Institute on Aging Dr. Marie A. Bernard, Congressman Cummings recommitted to supporting the fight against Alzheimer’s. “Today, Alzheimer’s is an irreversible disease that slowly robs people of their memories, their identities, and their ability to care for themselves. While significant research on Alzheimer’s is underway, current treatments are very limited – and we do not yet have any treatment that will prevent or cure this affliction. That’s why the Alzheimer’s stamp is so important. This stamp will enable Americans everywhere who are touched by Alzheimer’s to make a contribution to help us win the fight against it. “Alzheimer’s disease is one of the most critical public health crises our nation faces. I believe that the semipostal stamp the Postal Service is issuing today will help us take another step toward finally ending this disease.” According to the Alzheimer’s Association, Alzheimer’s affects more than 5 million Americans nationwide and is the 6th leading cause of death in the United States. The Alzheimer’s Semipostal stamp will cost 11 cents more than the average stamp and funds raised from the additional cost will support the Department of Health and Human Services’ Alzheimer’s disease research. In 2015, Congressman Cummings wrote the Postmaster General to urge that the Postal Service utilize its existing authority to issue an Alzheimer’s semipostal stamp. Following her husband’s Alzheimer’s diagnosis, Kathy Siggins has been an advocate with the Fredrick chapter of the Alzheimer’s Association. Siggins spent 17 years working with lawmakers and advocates to establish this fundraising stamp. The effort to establish this stamp was also supported by B. Smith and her husband, Dan Gasby.
11.21.2017	Baltimore, M.D. (November 21, 2017) – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement condemning the Trump Administration’s decision to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitians in July 2019 and urging the passage of legislation to codify protections for Haitians, Salvadorans, and other TPS recipients living in the United States: “I am appalled that the Trump Administration has announced the end of TPS for tens of thousands of Haitians living in the United States. As I have stated before, ending TPS will cruelly and needlessly upend their lives and the lives of their children while adding to the profound humanitarian challenges that continue to grip Haiti. I urge the administration to reconsider this decision, and to extend TPS for El Salvador, Honduras, and other countries as those statuses come up for renewal in the coming months.” “I also again call upon Speaker Ryan to bring legislation to the floor that will protect these individuals from removal, protect DREAMers, and enact comprehensive immigration reform.” “TPS recipients have been repeatedly vetted by the United States. They pay taxes, own homes and businesses, and many have children who are U.S. citizens. The United States has always been a land of compassion where immigrants from around the world have been given the opportunity to fulfill their greatest potential. Rather than destroy the lives of families who have found refuge here from natural disasters and economic despair, the Trump Administration should act to ensure that individuals on TPS can continue to work and support themselves and their families and contribute both to the United States and to the reconstruction of their home countries.”
11.16.2017	Baltimore, MD- (November 16, 2017) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement after learning of the passing of Baltimore City Police Detective Sean Suiter who was shot in the head while conducting an investigation: “My thoughts and prayers are with the family of Detective Sean Suiter. I was deeply saddened to learn of this young man’s death. His life was cut far too short while he was simply doing his job protecting others. Det. Suiter served the people of Baltimore for 18 years, and was gunned down callously in the line of duty by a heartless criminal. I urge anyone who has any information regarding this shooting to contact the Baltimore City Police immediately. We cannot allow these vicious acts of violence to continue. It is time for all of us to work together to ensure the safety of our community.”
11.06.2017	Washington, D.C. (November 6, 2017) — Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement urging the extension of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for hundreds of thousands of foreign nationals from Haiti and Central America: “I am appalled by reports that the Trump Administration plans to end Temporary Protected Status for hundreds of thousands of foreign nationals from Haiti and Central America. This decision will cruelly and needlessly upend their lives and the lives of their children while adding to the profound humanitarian challenges that continue to grip Haiti, El Salvador, and Honduras. These individuals have been repeatedly vetted by the United States. They pay taxes, own homes and businesses, and many have children who are U.S. citizens. “The United States has always been a land of compassion where immigrants from around the world have been given the opportunity to fulfill their greatest potential. Rather than destroy the lives of families who have found refuge here from natural disasters and economic despair, the Trump Administration should act to ensure that individuals on TPS can continue to work and support themselves and their families and contribute both to the United States and to the reconstruction of their home countries.”
10.05.2017	Washington, D.C. - October 4, 2017 - Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Congressmen Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-MD) in issuing the following statement after Judge James Bredar issued an order yesterday appointing the consent decree independent monitor team jointly recommended by the City of Baltimore, the Baltimore City Police Department (BPD), and the Department of Justice (DOJ): “We commend the City of Baltimore, BPD, and DOJ for coming together to advance the consent decree process with yesterday’s official appointment of the independent monitor team, led by Monitor Kenneth Thompson and Principal Deputy Monitor Charles Ramsey.” “The appointment is an important milestone in the ongoing consent decree process. The reforms that the monitor team will oversee represent much-needed change for the city. As we have said before, we hope these reforms will make BPD a model for the nation.” “The monitor team will produce a first-year plan in the next 90 days, which will lay out concrete steps to ensure the reform process produces effective results. We look forward to seeing this plan and stand ready to advocate for any needed federal assistance to help the process bring positive change to the City of Baltimore.”
09.21.2017	Washington, D.C. (September 21, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings issued the following statement supporting Howard University’s selection of Former FBI Director James Comey as their Opening Convocation Keynote Speaker this year and the 2017-2018 Gwendolyn S. and Colbert I. King Endowed Chair in Public Policy:“As a Howard University Alumnus and having served as the Endowed Chair in Public Policy at my alma mater, I believe that a college campus serves its students best when it allows for the exchange of diverse ideas and opinions. While I served as the King Endowed Chair, I invited my colleagues from both sides of the aisle, including outspoken Senators Rand Paul and Cory Booker, for a dynamic debate about criminal justice reform. Students had the rare opportunity to engage with leaders directly involved with shaping a critical public policy issue. There is no comparison to the real world learning experience the students will gain from Mr. Comey’s challenging and historic experiences as FBI Director and his many years in public service.” The Gwendolyn S. and Colbert I. King Endowed Chair in Public Policy was established by government and business leader Gwendolyn S. King and her husband, Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist Colbert I. King. The chair was established to provide students with access to leaders in public service who have developed and advanced public policy initiatives. Congressman Cummings served as the King Endowed Chair during the 2014-2015 and 2015-2016 school years.
09.12.2017	Washington, D.C. (September 12, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Congressmen John Sarbanes and Dutch Ruppersberger (all D-MD) in issuing the following statement on reports that the Department of Justice (DOJ) will not bring federal charges against the Baltimore City Police Department (BPD) officers involved in the death of Freddie Gray: “We are disappointed by reports that DOJ will not seek justice for Freddie Gray, but we are not surprised. We must now focus on ensuring that BPD has the resources it needs to implement the court-ordered consent decree and repair the sacred trust between police officers and the people they are sworn to protect. “In order to improve BPD and reduce the violence in our city, Baltimore will need the support of the Trump Administration and DOJ. Unfortunately, the Trump Administration has repeatedly stood in the way of our City’s progress by attempting to impede the implementation of the consent decree and holding hostage federal resources to reduce violent crime. “In light of this reported decision, we are once again calling on DOJ to actively support—not undermine—the consent decree and to provide Baltimore with all federal resources available to improve our police force. Doing anything less would be unconscionable.”
09.08.2017	Washington, D.C. (September 8, 2017) – Today, U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) and John Katko (NY-24) renewed their bipartisan effort to honor the life of Harriet Tubman—introducing The Harriet Tubman Tribute Act, which would require the Secretary of the Treasury to place Harriet Tubman’s likeness on the $20 bill beginning in 2020. Cummings and Katko introduced similar legislation in June 2015.“Too often, our nation does not do enough to honor the contributions of women in American history, especially women of color,” Cummings said. “Harriet Tubman was called the Moses of her people, because after she escaped slavery, she courageously made 19 trips to the South to free more than 300 enslaved African Americans. Her courage, conviction and commitment to equality represent the best of America and it is long past time we recognize her place in history. I am proud to introduce this bill with Rep. Katko to honor Harriet Tubman’s role in making America a more free and more equal society.” “Harriet Tubman is a hero who bravely led countless Americans to freedom and opportunity, courageously fought for her country, and was an outspoken advocate for women’s suffrage. With the Harriet Tubman Home in Auburn now a National Historic Park, Central New Yorkers are proud to honor her legacy and rich history in our community,” said Rep. John Katko. “Last week, I called on the Treasury Secretary to move forward with memorializing Harriet Tubman’s likeness on the $20 bill, and today I’m proud to once again introduce legislation with Rep. Cummings to honor the life of Harriet Tubman and her incredible contributions to this great nation.”
09.04.2017	Washington, D.C. (September 4, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement in recognition of Labor Day: “Labor Day gives Americans an opportunity to express gratitude for the workers who wake up every day to provide vital services to our communities. Today is also a day for us to honor the rich history and contributions of the U.S. labor movement, which secured many rights for American workers, including overtime pay and the 40-hour work week. “Despite our recognition of their efforts, we often fail to adequately support our workers and Republicans have led a years-long assault on labor unions. Today, labor unions are the weakest they have ever been; too many Americans workers do not earn a living wage; too many American women still do not receive equal pay for equal work; and too many working families cannot afford child care. “This Labor Day, in addition to enjoying time with our family and loved ones, let us recommit ourselves to fighting to give working families a better deal. Let us fight against policies that weaken unions and employee rights; let us fight for a living wage for all workers; let us fight to give women equal pay for equal work; and let us fight to ensure that families no longer have to choose between remaining in the workforce and paying for child care. Working families in this country deserve nothing less.”
08.26.2017	Washington, D.C. (August 26, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump pardoned Joe Arpaio:“The President claims that he wants to unite the country and fight against racism, yet his own words and actions show the opposite. He followed up his abhorrent statements about Charlottesville—that some white supremacists are 'very fine people'—by pardoning a racist cop for his crimes against minorities. Over and over again, President Trump has promoted what Speaker Ryan once called ‘textbook racism’ while exhibiting contempt for the rule of law. President Trump is sending a message with these words and his actions, and it is one of hate and divisiveness rather than hope and unity.”
08.20.2017	Washington, D.C. (August 20, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the passing of comedian and civil rights activist Dick Gregory: “I am deeply saddened by the death of my friend, teacher and mentor, Dick Gregory. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones. Dick’s comedy, speeches and activism brought laughter to millions, gave a voice to the voiceless, and spoke truth to power. He will be missed by many.”
08.18.2017	Washington, D.C. (August 18, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the firing of former White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon: “One of the most important elements of leadership is not what you do, but what your actions say about you. This week, the American people looked for the President to defend the values that make America great. We are still waiting. “I welcome the firing of Steve Bannon, because a man who is loved and supported by white supremacist groups has no place in the White House, earning a salary paid for by American taxpayers. President Trump must now show real leadership by disavowing white supremacy and he must completely rid his administration of anyone who sows hatred and bigotry in our country. “At this moment in our nation’s history, it is important that the American people not turn against each other, but toward each other to create a more perfect union. Our history teaches us that the United States is strongest when we embrace diversity and a multicultural society. Proof of this tenet is the outpouring of support from the American people to Charlottesville residents and marginalized communities nationwide. “Our democracy and our values have allowed Americans to thrive and prosper. We must continue fighting together to uphold those values in order to build a brighter future for all Americans.”
08.12.2017	Washington, D.C. (August 12, 2017) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released the following statement after a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, turned violent and killed one person: “My heart goes out to the people of Charlottesville, to those who were harmed by today's senseless violence and their loved ones. “We must recognize that what happened in Charlottesville is not new. It is the latest manifestation of a long history of hatred that continues to fester in this country, enabled now more than it has been for generations. “Our words of condemnation must be followed by actions to ensure those responsible for white supremacist violence are held to account and brought to justice.”
08.03.2017	Washington, D.C (August 3, 2017) – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) joined U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Representatives Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-MD) responded forcefully to a letter Attorney General Jeff Sessions sent to Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis threatening to reject the city from the Public Safety Partnership (PSP) program, run by the Department of Justice and designed to help cities combat violent crime. “The Justice Department’s mission is to ensure public safety and control crime. It is unconscionable that Attorney General Sessions would threaten to withhold critical law enforcement funding to Baltimore and other cities that could reduce violent crime. “It is the intent of Congress that state and local government should receive assistance from the federal government as they seek to keep their communities safe, fight crime, and build stronger partnerships between police departments and the neighborhoods they serve. “Immigration enforcement is a matter for the federal government. The federal government should not trample on the rights of states and localities with unfunded mandates, in the absence of comprehensive immigration reform which would fix our broken immigration system. “The Justice Department recognizes the higher-than-average crime rates in Baltimore and the need for intensive assistance to help reduce violent crime. This should be the sole threshold for gaining such assistance. “We do not understand why the Justice Department views Baltimore’s eligibility for assistance as dependent on its answers to unrelated federal immigration enforcement questions. Rather than threatening Baltimore and other cities, the Justice Department should be eager to bring to bear all of the federal government’s resources to reduce violent crime.” The delegation Members will be sending a letter directly to AG Sessions.
07.25.2017	Washington, D.C. (July 25, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement after Senate Republicans voted to begin debate on TrumpCare: “TrumpCare will leave millions of Americans without health insurance, and it will cost lives. This does not help the American people, it harms them. It appears that President Trump and Republicans in Congress are more interested in scoring a political victory than in the damage their legislation will cause for American families. I hope my colleagues will end their obsession with eliminating healthcare for millions of people just to deliver a blow to President Obama’s signature achievement. I hope we can rise above politics and work together to truly improve the healthcare of all Americans.”
07.14.2017	Washington, DC (July 14, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) notified the Maryland Department of Transportation that the DOT has decided to close “without finding” the complaint filed in 2015 alleging that the decision to cancel the Red Line project violated Title VI of the Civil Rights Act:“The Governor’s decision to cancel the Red Line and walk away from as much as $900 million in federal investments was a devastating setback to the City of Baltimore and to local residents who rely on public transit. The complaint filed by the NAACP Legal Defense Fund and the American Civil Liberties Union raised critical questions about this decision’s impact on Baltimore’s residents – particularly African American residents – and I am deeply disappointed that the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) is summarily closing the complaint without issuing any findings. “I will be closely watching to see whether the compliance review the USDOT has initiated thoroughly examines all aspects of the Maryland Department of Transportation’s (MDOT) compliance with the Civil Rights Act, including whether MDOT’s investment decisions – for the Red Line and for all infrastructure projects – are disadvantaging minority residents in Baltimore and the State of Maryland in any way.” Rather than pursue the NAACP’s complaint, the DOT announced it would “proceed with a broader comprehensive compliance review process.” In its letter to MDOT Secretary Pete Rahn, the DOT wrote that the compliance review was initiated “in early June” and “is broadly assessing MDOT’s Title VI compliance through a multi-part comprehensive compliance review process.” The proposed Baltimore Red Line lightrail system would have connected the east and west sides of Baltimore, providing much-needed access to public transportation to areas of the city where the median income was just over $31,000 and where 39 percent of households lack access to an automobile. Construction of the Red Line would also have spurred an estimated $2 billion in economic activity in Baltimore over the construction period, while creating or supporting more than 9,000 direct construction and related jobs, according to the Jacob France Institute. In June 2015, Governor Hogan announced that he will not build the Red Line.
06.26.2017	Baltimore, MD (June 26, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) report that the Senate’s TrumpCare bill would leave 22 million more Americans uninsured by 2026, including 15 million Americans who would lose their Medicaid coverage:“This CBO Report confirmed what we already know. The Senate’s TrumpCare bill is just as ‘mean’ as the House’s, and it has no ‘heart.’ “President Trump was elected after promising the American people that “everyone will be taken care of,” but it is now clear that the only people who will be taken care of are millionaires and billionaires. Just last week, he bragged about hiring Wall Street to run our economy, so we should not be surprised that the President is now selling out the health of the American people to pad the pockets of his wealthy friends. “TrumpCare can never have ‘heart’ because it is not a healthcare bill; it is a tax cut for the millionaire class and cut to the safety net for our most vulnerable neighbors. Of all the President’s broken promises, this is certainly the most shameful and possibly, most deadly. The American people deserve better than this.” Background: Despite recent attempts by Republicans in Congress to question the veracity and integrity of the CBO’s multiple analyses of TrumpCare, a 2015 Commonwealth Fund report found that the CBO’s Affordable Care Act forecasts were “reasonably accurate.” The CBO predicted that under the ACA, the percentage of uninsured Americans under the age of 65 would drop to 11 percent—the uninsured rate fell to 10 percent. The CBO predicted that by 2016, 10 million Americans would be covered under Medicaid expansion—the actual number is 14 million.
06.22.2017	Baltimore, MD (June 22, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the unveiling of the Senate’s version of TrumpCare:“After reading the bill unveiled in the Senate today, it is clear that Leader McConnell did not receive the President’s message about a healthcare bill with ‘heart.’ The Senate version of TrumpCare is even meaner than the House version and it undermines the long-term viability of Medicaid, placing at greater risk the most vulnerable members of our society. “Now the American people can see why this this Republican monstrosity was being hidden away, with no hearings, no amendments, and no debate. “If President Trump actually wants a bill with ‘heart,’ he should abandon this Republican legislation—which will result in millions of Americans losing their health insurance—and start working with Democrats to build on the success of the Affordable Care Act, which has set the standard for quality, access, and affordability for health care consumers. “Societies are judged by how they treat their citizens when they are most vulnerable, and few in our society are more vulnerable than our neighbors in need of healthcare. After all of President Trump’s promises to not cut Medicaid and bring ‘great healthcare’ to all, the American people deserve much more than what is in this bill.”
06.14.2017	Baltimore, MD (June 14, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on reports that an armed gunman ambushed the Members of Congress and staff practicing for the annual Congressional Baseball Game: “I am praying for a speedy recovery for Congressman Scalise and all those injured during the heinous ambush this morning. I am grateful for the swift response from our first responders—including the U.S. Capitol Police and the Alexandria City Police Department—whose bravery helped save many lives.”
06.07.2017	Baltimore, MD (June 7, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) announced that Ms. Ye Sun Park, a Senior at Centennial High School in Howard County, is the winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for the 7th Congressional District of Maryland. Ms. Park’s painting, entitled “Woman in Blue,” will be displayed at the U.S. Capitol for one year alongside the works of other young artists from across the country. The runner-up in the competition was Ms. Lalitha Madduri, a student at Mount Hebron High School, for her painting, “Mother.” “Every year I host the Congressional Art Competition, I am impressed by the talent and imagination of the young people in my district,” Cummings said. “I congratulate Ms. Park, Ms. Madduri, and the winners of the Curator Choice Awards, and I cannot wait to see the great work they create in the future.” Several young artists also received Curator’s Choice Awards: • American Visionary Art Museum: Quyen Kim Nguyen • Baltimore Museum of Art: Han Seung Chun • Contemporary Museum: Maria Rodriguez Cardona • Maryland Art Place: Katherine Horst • Maryland Institute College of Art: Lily Rokita • National Great Blacks in Wax Museum: Nariko Taylor • Walters Art Museum: Tricia Park Initiated by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and sponsored by the Congressional Institute, the Congressional Art Competition recognizes and encourages artistic talent in the nation. To participate, high school students submit entries to their Representative’s office, and each district selects a winning entry, which is then displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol.
06.02.2017	Washington, D.C. (June 2, 2017)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), along with Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen and Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), John Sarbanes (MD-03), John K. Delaney (MD-06), Andy Harris (MD-01) Anthony G. Brown (MD-04), and Jamie Raskin (MD-08) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation announced a $9 million grant award to the Maryland Transportation Administration (MTA) to install Positive Train Control (PTC) technology—a crash-avoidance rail-safety system that can automatically prevent collisions—along the MARC Train Penn Line, which connects Baltimore and Washington, DC: “Every day, thousands of Marylanders use the MARC trains to commute to work. This grant is a critical investment in Maryland’s infrastructure, which will allow the state to implement life-saving Positive Train Control technology on the MARC’s Penn Line and keep Marylanders safe.” The PTC system will cover a total distance of 77 miles from the Perryville, MD MARC Station to Union Station in Washington, DC.
05.26.2017	Washington, DC (May 26, 2017)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day, which is Monday, May 29, 2017: “As we observe another Memorial Day by spending time with our friends and families, let us all take a moment to acknowledge the gravity of the day. Memorial Day is more than a day for cook outs and beach trips. It is a day for us to honor the American men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice to defend the American way of life; and it is a day for us to honor the friends and families who have shared their loved ones with our nation. We are forever in their debt.”
05.25.2017	Baltimore, MD (May 25, 2017)— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings underwent a minimally invasive medical procedure on Wednesday at Johns Hopkins Hospital to treat aortic stenosis. The procedure, called Trans Arterial Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR), was used to correct narrowing of the aortic valve. The Congressman will remain in the hospital for a few days and will return to his normal schedule thereafter.
05.22.2017	Washington, D.C. (May 22, 2017)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued a statement on the Supreme Court’s ruling in Cooper v Harris. The decision found that two congressional districts in North Carolina were unconstitutional, because they were designed to dilute the votes of African American residents. “Today’s Supreme Court ruling is encouraging and sends a strong message that officials in North Carolina will not be allowed to try to ‘fix’ the vote based on racial discrimination. This ruling, and others like it, make clear that the President’s new voting commission should stop focusing on trying to prove the President’s completely unsubstantiated claim that millions of undocumented immigrants voted in the last election and instead focus on ways to prevent Republicans in states across the country from their overt attempts to suppress the rights of legitimate voters to cast their ballots. Congress must do everything in our power to protect the ability of American citizens to exercise their Constitutional right to vote.”
05.17.2017	Washington, D.C. (May 17, 2017)—Today, Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Bill Johnson (R-OH), Sander Levin (D-MI) and Brian K. Fitzpatrick (R-PA), and 70 House Members released a letter sent yesterday to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney urging him to maintain funding for the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) in the Trump Administration’s FY2018 Budget. According to press reports, President Donald Trump’s FY18 budget will propose drastic cuts to ONDCP, including completely eliminating the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) and Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Programs. The Members wrote: “For almost two decades, ONDCP has had a critical role in ensuring the nation’s drug policy is effective, accountable, and evidence-based. The Office and the programs it supports are uniquely positioned to address the causes and effects of the current opioid crisis with proven strategies and broad reach. For these important programs to remain effective, we believe they must continue to be funded fully and coordinated effectively. We are gravely concerned that any interruption would exacerbate the crises in our communities and we remain committed in working together to reverse the damaging effects that opioids and other drugs have had on American families.” With the deadly opioid epidemic tearing apart families and communities nationwide, the need for a coordinated, effective and accountable approach to substance abuse and drug trafficking is greater than ever. The National Institute of Drug Abuse reports that the number of overdose deaths from prescription opioids increased by a factor of 2.8 between 2002 and 2015. The number of heroin deaths increased by a factor of 6.2 in the same period. Since its creation in 1988, ONDCP has enjoyed bipartisan support for its mission of protecting public safety and promoting public health. The office’s National Drug Control Strategy has provided an important blueprint to guide and coordinate the efforts of federal, state, and local partners to ensure an evidence-based and accountable strategy to address the devastating impact of drugs on our communities. Congress created the HIDTA program in 1988 to promote coordination between federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies operating in areas determined to be critical drug trafficking regions of the United States. Law enforcement organizations working within HIDTAs assess drug trafficking issues and design specific initiatives to decrease the production, transportation, distribution, and chronic use of drugs and money laundering. In recent years, HIDTA seizures have yielded billions of dollars that transnational criminal organizations would have used to reinvest in the illegal drug trade. Instead, this cost-effective program has reinvested proceeds in efforts to further address the causes and effects of substance abuse. The DFC program reduces drug use through building a multi-sector coalition where schools, parents, health care, and youth-serving organizations work together to plan and implement a comprehensive set of evidence-based programs tailored to a community’s unique needs. More than 600 communities nationwide currently have Drug-Free Community coalitions. The program has consistently demonstrated reductions in past 30-day use of alcohol, tobacco, and prescription drugs. Click here and see below to read the letter. May 16, 2017 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Director, Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street Northwest Washington, District of Columbia 20503 Dear Director Mulvaney: We are writing to express our concern about reported severe reductions to the Office of the National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) in the fiscal 2018 budget that would put in jeopardy programs that provide needed assistance to state and local law enforcement and community coalitions to fight the growing opioid epidemic. As you know, ONDCP has played a critical role in coordinating the nation’s drug control efforts. Since 1988 this office has enjoyed bipartisan support for its mission of protecting public safety and promoting public health. The office’s National Drug Control Strategy has provided an important blueprint to guide and coordinate the efforts of federal, state, and local partners to ensure an evidence-based and accountable strategy to address the devastating impact of drugs on our communities. The need for a coordinated, effective, and accountable approach to substance abuse and drug trafficking is greater than ever. The National Institute of Drug Abuse reports that the number of overdose deaths from prescription opioids increased by a factor of 2.8 between 2002 and 2015. The number of heroin deaths increased by a factor of 6.2 in the same period. This epidemic is being felt in communities throughout the United States and the effects have been devastating. The High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program, overseen by ONDCP, has been a critical component of the National Drug Control Strategy. This program aids in the coordination of federal, state, and local drug task forces to disrupt or dismantle drug trafficking organizations. It also engages and provides support to state and federal prosecutors to convict individuals associated with drug trafficking organizations. In recent years, HIDTA seizures have yielded billions of dollars that transnational criminal organizations would have used to reinvest in the illegal drug trade. Instead, this cost-effective program has reinvested proceeds in efforts to further address the causes and effects of substance abuse. The office’s Drug Free Communities (DFC) Program has been similarly effective. Its approach to addressing local problems with community-driven solutions has consistently shown reductions in past 30-day use of alcohol, tobacco, and prescription drugs. The program is designed with strict accountability provisions to ensure the highest levels of local support in solving the substance abuse crisis each community faces. By law, there is a cap on the amount of money that can be spent on administrative and overhead expenses, which ensures that the maximum amount of funding goes to DFC coalitions that have the power to reduce youth substance use in their own communities. Coalitions are required to be in existence and fully functioning for a minimum of six months before they are eligible to apply, and they must have baseline data to show that they have full knowledge of local drug issues, as well as matching federal funding with dollar-for-dollar local funds. For almost two decades, ONDCP has had a critical role in ensuring the nation’s drug policy is effective, accountable, and evidence-based. The Office and the programs it supports are uniquely positioned to address the causes and effects of the current opioid crisis with proven strategies and broad reach. For these important programs to remain effective, we believe they must continue to be funded fully and coordinated effectively. We are gravely concerned that any interruption would exacerbate the crises in our communities and we remain committed in working together to reverse the damaging effects that opioids and other drugs have had on American families. We respectfully request clarification on the Administration’s intended actions to ensure the continuity of HIDTA and DFC and look forward to your response. Sincerely,
05.05.2017	Washington, D.C. (May 5, 2017)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on reports that President Donald Trump’s FY18 budget would propose drastic cuts to the Office of National Drug Control Policy, including completely eliminating the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) and Drug-Free Communities Programs: “President Trump promised the American people that he would solve the opioid epidemic, so I hope these reports are not an indication of his Administration’s intentions. The Office of National Drug Control Policy, including the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas program and the Drug-Free Communities program, are some of the important tools federal, state and local law enforcement agencies have to fight the opioid epidemic. The programs allow agencies to share resources and best practices to address problems like heroin use and drug trafficking in our communities. “Many communities in my district, and across the country, will be harmed if we do not invest in these programs. We must have a comprehensive plan to tackle this crisis. There are lives at stake.” Congressman Cummings, whose congressional district includes much of Baltimore, is one of the strongest supporters in Congress of the HIDTA program. Historically, the Washington/Baltimore region has been plagued with drug trafficking. By 1998, heroin use had overtaken cocaine use in the region, and in 2000, the Drug Enforcement Administration found that Baltimore had the highest per capita rates for heroin use in the entire country. Congress created the HIDTA program in 1988 to promote coordination between federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies operating in areas determined to be critical drug trafficking regions of the United States. The Washington/Baltimore area was designated as a HIDTA in 1994. Law enforcement organizations working within HIDTAs assess drug trafficking issues and design specific initiatives to decrease the production, transportation, distribution, and chronic use of drugs and money laundering. In recent years, the work of the Washington/Baltimore HIDTA has led to thousands of drug seizures, fugitive captures, and firearms taken off the streets.
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. (May 4, 2017)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the House passage of TrumpCare: “Today’s vote on TrumpCare was a loss for the American people and a moral failure on the part of my Republican colleagues. “The American people are organized against TrumpCare. My constituents called, they emailed, they came to my office and to town halls to share their stories of life before the ACA, and to tell me that they have no interest in going back. I know that my Republican colleagues heard from their constituents as well—they should listen to them. “Who is this bill meant to help? The majority of the American people oppose it; groups representing seniors, hospitals, and doctors oppose it; and until two days ago, many Republican House Members opposed it. “If my colleagues are interested in improving healthcare for all Americans, they should work with Democrats to improve upon the progress we have made. Instead, they have twisted arms to rush this flawed bill to the House floor. If this bill is signed into law, we all lose, but none more than the working poor and those in chronic need of care. This bill is a truly shameful and unacceptable answer to Americans’ health care needs.” Many residents in Maryland’s Seventh Congressional District are better-off because of protections in the Affordable Care Act, some of their stories follow: • “My son got sick in his second year of college, and had to come home for a semester for medical treatments. I was lucky that the part of Obamacare kicked in in December, just in time so he could withdraw from classes without failing. If it hadn't been for Obamacare, his medical bills would have bankrupted me, I would have lost my house, his education - everything! ” – Rosalie, C. from Columbia, MD • “I have two daughters recently graduated from college who are just starting to make their way in the world. Because I can now carry them on my health coverage until they are 26, they are able to save more of their small salaries for things like retirement and their future education or domiciles.” – Peter G. from Columbia, MD • “My wife and I own a small business on Main Street in Ellicott City. We have two daughters and twelve years ago, I had cancer. My part-time employer, who provided insurance, changed hourly requirements to keep insurance just before my diagnosis, so we were on COBRA during my treatment. We had to keep the plan we had, which got more and more expensive. After 5 years, we could switch plans without preexisting limitations. We had to go with the lowest-cost plan we could get which had a very high deductible. My wife was diagnosed with breast cancer not long after that. She went through surgery in July, started chemo in September, which finished in January. Radiation started after that and finished in April. We had 2 calendar years of deductibles to pay since treatment covered 2 years. That was about $20,000 in medical bills. Once we were able to sign up for an ACA plan, we were able to get a plan with hardly any deductible and we paid far less per month. Cancer requires years of follow-up care. Had Obamacare not been there for us, we would have lost our business. My wife’s MRIs, blood tests and prescriptions are now very affordable for us. Our children still have their parents. We kept our store, which has been in Ellicott City for 28 years. We will be reopening in a few weeks after the flood closed us in July. We are thankful every single day for the ACA. Thank you for fighting for our health care!” – Steven M. from Columbia, MD • “Our family of four participates in the Maryland healthcare exchange. Both my husband and I are self-employed. I am a nurse working in international development as a contractor. He has a small business selling gardening and landscaping supplies. We depend on our subsidy to afford the coverage. If we did not receive the subsidy, we would have to drop our insurance and make hard choices about when to seek care for ourselves and our children. We do not qualify for Medicaid, but do qualify for a subsidy. Our income is approximately $60,000 per year. Without the subsidy the premium for a silver plan is $1000 per month -$12,000 per year. That is 20% of our income!!” – Suzanne B. from Baltimore, MD • “My children are 21, 19 and 17. Having insurance that covers my children until they are 26 is one of the best things that happened. One of my daughters has asthma and is in need of frequent care for her condition. If we are not allowed to keep this benefit it will be very detrimental to our family because my children are in college and don't have jobs that offer benefits.”— Lenora T. from Baltimore, MD • “Before the Affordable Care Act my daughter was without any health insurance. She had turned 18 in 2007 and was dropped off my health plan. She was a full-time student and worked part-time doing retail, but she was tempted to go to school part-time and work full-time so she can get health care through her job. When the Affordable Care Act came 2009, I was able to add her back on to my health plan and she was able to finish college as a full-time student.” – Lisa C. from Parkville, MD • “I am grateful for the provisions of ACA that require insurance companies to cover those of us with pre-existing conditions. Though my asthma is under control, has never required me to be hospitalized and has only needed outpatient nebulizer treatment twice in the 25 years since it was diagnosed, before ACA, I was denied coverage due to it.” – Nancy S. from Catonsville, MD
04.19.2017	Washington, D.C. (Apr. 19, 2017)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), issued the following statement marking the 2nd anniversary of Mr. Freddie Gray’s death: “Like many in our community, I still mourn the death of Mr. Freddie Gray. His family, friends and loved ones will always be in my prayers. Mr. Gray moved many in our City to demand a better Baltimore for all residents and he moved us to act. “I have been proud to see our community, faith, and business leaders take steps to improve our police department, expand economic opportunity for our neighbors living in historically underserved communities, and give more of our young people a chance to become all God meant for them to be. “We must continue to cast our gaze forward as we implement the consent decree for the Baltimore City Police Department and we must continue to work toward becoming a city where all residents are valued, respected and provided the opportunity to thrive and prosper.”
04.07.2017	Washington, D.C. (Apr. 7, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement after President Donald J. Trump ordered the U.S. military to conduct airstrikes on a military airfield in Syria: “This week the world got a glimpse into the fear and horror that millions of Syrians live with every day. The Assad regime’s most recent use of chemical weapons against his own people—including many young children—is a crime against humanity. While last night’s airstrikes in Syria were a proportional response to an unforgivable crime, missiles alone will not resolve the conflict in Syria. I am calling on President Trump to immediately rescind his ban on Syrian refugees and to share his strategy regarding the civil war in Syria with Congress and with the American people. We must have an honest, open debate on how to best address this complex issue. The stakes are too high.”
04.05.2017	Washington, D.C. (Apr. 5, 2017) — Today, U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen and Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-MD) issued the following statement after Judge James Bredar denied the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) request for a 90-day continuance on the implementation of the consent decree between DOJ and the Baltimore City Police Department: “This ruling is a win for the people of Baltimore. The Justice Department’s attempt to delay the implementation of the consent decree would have greatly impeded our progress in rebuilding trust between the community and police. The consent decree has the strong support of both the Mayor and Police Commissioner of Baltimore.” “Last year’s ‘pattern or practice’ report on BPD, which detailed years of systemic civil rights violations, was a call to action for everyone in Baltimore. “We are now on the path to much-needed and long-overdue reforms, which we hope will make BPD a model for the nation. The Justice Department and Attorney General Sessions should be supporting our efforts, not seeking to undermine them.” Background Yesterday, the Members sent a letter to Attorney General Sessions urging him to rescind his request to delay the consent decree. In May 2015, all Democrats in Maryland’s congressional delegation sent a letter to Lynch in support of then-Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake’s request to have the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division open a federal “pattern or practice” investigation of BPD. On November 21, 2016, the Members sent a letter to Rawlings-Blake, Pugh and Lynch to inquire on the status of the consent decree negotiations after hearing growing concern from the community about the status of and delay in drafting the decree. The City began negotiating the consent decree with a stated goal of having it completed by November 1.
04.04.2017	Washington, D.C. (Apr. 4, 2017)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) joined Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) to introduce the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would strengthen the Equal Pay Act of 1963 by allowing women to challenge pay discrimination and hold employers accountable. U.S. Senator Patty Murray introduced the companion legislation in the Senate.“I am proud to join Congresswoman DeLauro and Senator Murray to introduce this bill, which would help us finally close the wage gap,” Cummings said. “We should not be a country that allows employers to pay women less than their male co-workers for doing the same job.” Equal Pay Day symbolizes the date when women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. Despite making up half the workforce, more than five decades after the passage of the Equal Pay Act of 1963, American women still make only 80 cents, on average, for every dollar earned by a man. The gap is even wider for women of color, with African American women making 63 cents on the dollar, and Hispanic women making only 54 cents, on average, compared with white men. The Paycheck Fairness Act would strengthen and close loopholes in the Equal Pay Act of 1963 by holding employers accountable for discriminatory practices, ending the practice of pay secrecy, easing workers’ ability to individually or jointly challenge pay discrimination, and strengthening the available remedies for wronged employees.
04.04.2017	Washington, D.C. (Apr. 4, 2017)— Today, U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen with Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions objecting to the request by the U.S. Department of Justice to delay finalizing the consent decree that was agreed to by DOJ and the City of Baltimore to address systemic civil rights violations. The agreement followed an exhaustive federal pattern-and-practice investigation. “We are gravely concerned that the Justice Department will retreat from its obligation to protect the federal civil rights of the citizens of Baltimore,” the Members wrote in their letter. “We urge the Justice Department to withdraw its request for a delay in proceedings and to continue working with Baltimore City and BPD as scheduled. We stand ready as a Congressional delegation to work closely with the Justice Department to rebuild public trust in the Baltimore City Police Department through these much-needed and long-overdue reforms.” The text of the letter follows. April 4, 2017 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Sessions: We write to express our strong opposition to any delay in the final consideration and implementation of the consent decree between the U.S. Department of Justice and the Baltimore City Police Department (BPD). We understand that Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh, Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis, and numerous civil rights groups also oppose the Justice Department’s request for a delay out of concern that postponement could further erode the trust between the local government and the citizens of Baltimore. We are gravely concerned that the Justice Department will retreat from its obligation to protect the federal civil rights of the citizens of Baltimore. Shortly after the death of Freddie Gray in police custody and the subsequent unrest in Baltimore, Mayor Rawlings-Blake requested that the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division open a federal pattern or practice investigation of the Baltimore City Police Department. We supported her request and urged the Justice Department to continue its criminal and civil rights investigation. The Justice Department responded by opening a pattern or practice investigation in May 2015. As part of this investigation, the Justice Department produced an exhaustive report in August 2016. The report provides a troubling‎ account of the “systemic deficiencies in BPD’s policies, training, supervision, and accountability structures” contributing to “a pattern or practice of conduct that violates the Constitution or federal law.” In particular, the report details a pattern of illegal stops, searches, arrests and use of excessive force that disproportionately impacted Baltimore’s African-American communities. Given the Justice Department’s August 2016 report, we do not believe that the problems addressed by the Baltimore consent decree can be characterized as “the misdeeds of individual bad actors.” Your March 31st memorandum and the Justice Department’s recent motion for a continuance put the important work by the parties of that consent decree at risk. The Justice Department’s position will impact the timely and efficient implementation of the consent decree, which is fully supported by the City and BPD. We owe it to the dedicated professional law enforcement officers of the BPD to bring this matter to a just, prompt conclusion. Therefore, we urge the Justice Department to withdraw its request for a delay in proceedings and to continue working with Baltimore City and BPD as scheduled. We stand ready as a Congressional delegation to work closely with the Justice Department to rebuild public trust in the Baltimore City Police Department through these much-needed and long-overdue reforms. We look forward to your timely response. cc: The Honorable Catherine Pugh, Mayor of Baltimore
03.22.2017	Washington, D.C. (Mar. 22, 2017) — Today, U.S. Senators Chris Van Hollen and Ben Cardin joined Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes and John Delaney (all D-MD) in introducing a resolution honoring Henrietta Lacks for her contributions to medical research as part of Women's History Month. Lacks, an African-American woman, died of cervical cancer in 1951. For more than six decades, her cells have been used by medical researchers in some of medicine’s most important breakthroughs, including the development of the polio vaccine, along with treatments for cancer, HIV/AIDS, leukemia and Parkinson’s disease. “Some people’s contributions are measured by the number of lives they touched, and others by lives they saved. You can measure the contributions of Henrietta Lacks in both ways, and the totals will continue to increase far into the future, as more and more families are spared the loss of their loved ones owing to the medical advances that Ms. Lacks' cells enabled,” said Senator Cardin. “Women’s history is American history, which is why I am proud to join with my colleagues during this Women’s History Month to celebrate the immortal life of Henrietta Lacks.” “This resolution recognizes Henrietta Lacks for the lifesaving contributions her unique cells have made for medical research and millions of people across the world,” Senator Van Hollen said. “Mrs. Lacks' cells have been one of the most vital tools in developing treatments and cures for many diseases, from polio to Parkinson's disease. For too long her story went untold, and I'm honored to highlight her important contribution.” “I am proud to introduce this resolution to honor Henrietta Lacks’ contributions to medicine and to the world,” Congressman Cummings said. “I look forward to more Americans learning about the key role Mrs. Lacks’ cells have played in groundbreaking medical discoveries, including development of the polio vaccine, treatments for HIV/AIDS, leukemia, and Parkinson’s disease—improving the quality of life of millions of people around the world.” “I can think of few Marylanders – or even Americans – more deserving of this recognition than Henrietta Lacks,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I am so proud of the life-saving contributions this Turner’s Station resident has made to medicine and society and that she will continue to make for generations to come. I encourage my colleagues to pass this resolution as quickly as possible as we honor women’s history month.” “Henrietta Lacks made one of the most consequential contributions to the study of science and medicine,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “It’s an honor to introduce this resolution along with my Maryland delegation colleagues and recognize the groundbreaking and lifesaving medical advances that Ms. Lacks’ cells have paved the way for, including numerous vaccines and treatments for some of the world’s most debilitating diseases.” “It is extremely important that we recognize Henrietta Lacks and make sure that her contributions are not forgotten,” Congressman Delaney said. “Outside of the spotlight, she made a lasting impact on American medicine, advancing medical research into devastating diseases such as HIV/AIDS, leukemia and Parkinson’s. I applaud Congressman Cummings for his work to raise awareness of Henrietta’s story and hope that this resolution can help more people learn about the difference she made.” The House cosponsors of the resolution are Reps. Dwight Evans (D-PA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Alma Adams (D-NC), John Lewis (D-GA), Adam Smith (D-WA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Danny Davis (D-IL), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Robin Kelly (D-IL), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Judy Chu (D-CA), Stacey Plaskett (D-VI), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), David Scott (D-GA), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Betty McCollum (D-MN) and Bobby Rush (D-IL). Click here for a PDF of the resolution. The full text follows: Whereas Henrietta Lacks, an African-American woman born on August 1, 1920, in Roanoke, Virginia, was raised by her grandfather on a tobacco farm in Clover, Virginia; Whereas Henrietta Lacks married David ‘‘Day’’ Lacks in 1941 in Halifax County, Virginia, and they later moved to the Baltimore County, Maryland, community of Turner Station, to build a life for themselves and their five children: Lawrence, Elsie, David, Deborah and Joseph (Zakariyya); Whereas in 1951 Henrietta Lacks at the age of 31 was diagnosed with cervical cancer, and despite receiving painful radium treatments, passed away on October 4, 1951; Whereas medical researchers took samples of Henrietta Lacks’ tumor during her treatment and the HeLa cell line from her tumor proved remarkably resilient; Whereas Henrietta Lacks died eight months after her cancer diagnosis, leaving behind her children, husband and ‘‘immortal cells’’ that would change the world; Whereas HeLa cells were the first immortal line of human cells, doubling every 24 hours, dividing and replenishing indefinitely in a laboratory, and successfully growing outside of the human body for longer than 36 hours; Whereas Henrietta Lacks’ cells were unique, growing by the millions, commercialized and distributed worldwide to researchers, resulting in advances in medicine; Whereas the advances made possible by Henrietta Lacks’ cells and the revenues they generated were not known to her family for more than twenty years; Whereas an estimated 50,000,000 metric tons of HeLa cells have been distributed around the world to become the subject of more than 74,000 studies; Whereas Henrietta Lacks’ prolific cells continue to grow and contribute to remarkable advances in medicine, including the development of the polio vaccine, as well as drugs for treating the effects of cancer, HIV/AIDS, hemophilia, leukemia, and Parkinson’s disease; Whereas Henrietta Lacks’ cells have been used in research that has contributed to our understanding of the effects of radiation and zero gravity on human cells; Whereas Henrietta Lacks’ immortal cells have informed research on chromosomal conditions, cancer, gene mapping, and precision medicine; Whereas Henrietta Lacks’ legacy has been recognized around the world through memorials, conferences, museum exhibitions, libraries, print and visual media; Whereas Henrietta Lacks and her family’s experience is fundamental to modern bioethics policies and informed consent laws that benefit patients nationwide by building patient trust and protecting research participants; Whereas the Lacks family entered a groundbreaking, HeLa Genome Data Use Agreement in 2013 with the medical, scientific, and bioethics communities, giving them a role in regulating the HeLa genome sequences and discoveries; Whereas Women’s History Month is celebrated in March to pay tribute to the many contributions women have made to the United States experience; and Whereas Henrietta Lacks and her immortal cells have made a significant contribution to global health, scientific research, quality of life, and patient rights: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That Congress during Women’s History month— (1) celebrates the life of Henrietta Lacks, an African-American woman who unknowingly changed the face of medical science, contributing to lasting, worldwide improvements in health; (2) honors Henrietta Lacks as a hero of modern medicine for her contributions to the medical discoveries resulting from her HeLa cells, which helped make possible some of the most important medical advances of the last century; and (3) recognizes Henrietta Lacks’ legacy, which has contributed to developments in bioethics and patient rights that benefit all people in the United States.
03.08.2017	Washington, D.C. (Mar. 8, 2017)—Today, U.S. Representatives Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), and 51 House Members sent a letter to Vice President Mike Pence urging the Trump Administration to cease its “investigation” into the voter fraud myth and instead investigate the widespread issue of voter suppression. Cummings hand-delivered the letter to the White House during a meeting today with President Trump. The Members wrote, “All Americans deserve a voice in our elections and the freedom to cast their votes without interference. However, restrictive voter suppression laws and intimidation tactics threaten that process. There are serious concerns about election laws being passed and considered by states across the country and their impact on the ability of eligible voters to access the ballot box.” The letter requested that the Vice President appoint voter suppression experts to his task force and requested a response from him in two weeks. The Members continued, “We firmly believe that it would be a disservice to our nation to neglect mounting concerns over voter suppression.” In January, President Trump tweeted that he would launch a “major investigation” of voter fraud, and he later appointed Vice President Pence to lead an “investigation” into the issue. On February 8, Kilmer, Sewell, Cummings, and scores of other House Members sent a letter calling on the President to investigate voter suppression as part of any investigation his Administration conducts into voting irregularities in the 2016 presidential election. Vice President Pence has reportedly begun selecting members of his voter fraud task force. Voter fraud is practically nonexistent. A 2007 Brennan Center report found that voter fraud incident rates were only between 0.0003% and 0.0025%. In 2014, the Washington Post investigated voter fraud and found 31 credible instances from 2000 to 2014 out of more than 1 billion votes cast. The Department of Justice examined votes cast between 2002 and 2005, finding that just 0.00000013% of the votes cast resulted in voter fraud convictions or guilty pleas. Many Republicans agree that widespread voter fraud does not exist. For example: • House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) said: “I’ve seen no evidence to that effect. I’ve made that very, very clear,” when asked about the President’s claims. • Senator John McCain (R-AZ) said: “Look, there’s no evidence of that and I think that those who allege that have to come up with some substantiation of the claim.” • Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) said: “I haven’t seen evidence of that.” • Representative Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) said: “On the voter fraud issue, that really happens at the county level. I don’t see any evidence.” Although there is bipartisan agreement that widespread voter fraud does not exist, statehouses nationwide have used this myth to pass more restrictive voting requirements. In 2014, a federal court in Wisconsin found that more than 300,000 registered voters in the state did not have the proper ID needed to vote because of a law signed by the Governor. In another ruling in 2014, a federal court found that more than 600,000 registered voters in Texas at the time did not have the voter ID that the state newly required to vote. North Carolina has eliminated same-day voter registration and cut off an entire week of early voting. In Florida, a law bars anyone with a felony from voting unless they go to the state capital and request clemency. A total of 14 states had restrictive new voting laws in place for the first time in a presidential election last year. Click here for a PDF of the letter, and the full text follows: Dear Vice President Pence: We write to follow up on our letter to President Trump dated February 8, 2017. In that letter, 78 Members of Congress requested that any investigation that President Trump’s administration conducts into voter irregularities in the 2016 presidential election include a thorough investigation and analysis of voter suppression and disenfranchisement. As of this date, we have not yet received a response from the President. However, we have learned that you are organizing a task force on voter fraud, and so we write to you directly to renew our call for a careful and fulsome examination of voter suppression. We are attaching our prior letter here for your review in full. All Americans deserve a voice in our elections and the freedom to cast their votes without interference. However, restrictive voter suppression laws and intimidation tactics threaten that process. There are serious concerns about election laws being passed and considered by states across the country and their impact on the ability of eligible voters to access the ballot box. Specifically, we write today to respectfully request that instead of investigating the myth of voter fraud, your task force thoroughly investigate and analyze the reality of voter suppression across our nation. However, if you intend to move forward with building a task force to examine voter fraud, we respectfully request that: (1) you ensure that the scope of that task force specifically includes a thorough investigation and analysis of voter suppression and disenfranchisement across our nation; and that (2) your task force specifically include members with special expertise in voting rights, access to the ballot box, disenfranchisement, and voter suppression laws, especially new voting laws enacted in states across the nation since the 2013 Supreme Court decision in Shelby County v. Holder. We firmly believe that it would be a disservice to our nation to neglect mounting concerns over voter suppression. We respectfully request your response to the above requests by Wednesday, March 22, and we hope to work together with you to remedy widespread voter disenfranchisement across our country. Sincerely,
03.06.2017	Washington, D.C. (Mar. 6, 2017)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on President Trump’s second attempt to ban Muslims and refugees: “Following a series of defeats in court for his first un-American Muslim ban, President Trump is attempting to revise his unconstitutional policy. But the American people should not be fooled by the President’s second attempt: his policy still bans immigrants only from Muslim-majority countries, it still cruelly blocks refugees, it is still un-American, and it still will harm American national security interests more than help them.” Last month, several news outlets reported that an internal Department of Homeland Security memo found that citizenship was an “unlikely indicator” for terror threats within the United States, contradicting President Trump’s claims that his Muslim ban will protect Americans from acts of terrorism. During an interview on FOX News last month, Senior White House Policy Adviser Stephen Miller said that the revised Muslim ban would have the “same basic policy outcome.”
03.01.2017	Washington, D.C. (Mar. 1, 2017) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer, Anthony Brown, John K. Delaney, Andy Harris, Jamie Raskin, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John P. Sarbanes (all D-MD) sent a letter to Rod Rosenstein, U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland, and his counterpart at the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), Gordon B. Johnson, Special Agent in Charge, Baltimore, urging them to use “the full resources of the Justice Department to investigate and prosecute hate crimes and violence in the state of Maryland.” As recent as Monday, another wave of threats to Jewish day schools and institutions occurred across the country, including Jewish day schools in Rockville and Annapolis, and a Jewish Community Center in Owings Mills. The delegation wrote, “In Maryland, bomb threats have disrupted classroom activities as well as events at Jewish community centers, coupled with the rise of neo-Nazi propaganda. These hate-filled threats are intended to strike fear across the country and represent a troubling trend that we must bring to an end. … Each threat needs to be treated with the utmost seriousness as we band together to discourage such vicious language and activity.” The full letter is below and can be found at this link. March 1, 2017 Mr. Rod J. Rosenstein U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland U.S. Department of Justice 36th S. Charles Street, 4th floor Baltimore, MD 21201 Mr. Gordon B. Johnson Special Agent in Charge, Baltimore Federal Bureau of Investigation 2600 Baltimore Drive Baltimore, MD 21244 Dear U.S. Attorney Rosenstein and Special Agent in Charge Johnson: We write to express our grave concern about the recent rise in the number of anti-Semitic and religious discrimination incidents in the state of Maryland and the need for a strong federal response. In Maryland, bomb threats have disrupted classroom activities as well as events at Jewish community centers, coupled with the rise of neo-Nazi propaganda. These hate-filled threats are intended to strike fear across the country and represent a troubling trend that we must bring to an end. Leaders from the national level to the neighborhood level must speak out forcefully against this kind of intolerance. This is not only a concern of Jewish communities. Religious-based threats, vandalism and threats of violence, whether anti-Semitic or targeted at Muslim-Americans or other religions, are not only criminal but fan the flames of extremism that tears apart societies. Each threat needs to be treated with the utmost seriousness as we band together to discourage such vicious language and activity. We ask you to use the full resources of the Justice Department to investigate and prosecute hate crimes and violence in the state of Maryland when jurisdiction exists to protect federal civil rights, including the resources available from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Civil Rights Division, and Community Relations Service. We urge you to work closely with state and local law enforcement authorities to ensure close cooperation on investigation and prosecution of hate crimes and to improve training and reporting of such crimes to the federal government. We pledge our full cooperation in these efforts. Thank you for your consideration. We look forward to your timely response and working closely with your offices to protect the civil rights and civil liberties of all Marylanders. Sincerely, Cc: Attorney General Jeff Sessions, DOJ Jim Comey, FBI Director Brian Frosh, Maryland Attorney General
02.28.2017	Washington, D.C. (Feb. 28, 2017)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress: “In the 40 days since he was sworn in, President Trump has shown that he will be a champion for Wall Street, not the American people. “By this point in his presidency, President Obama had already signed legislation to help ensure equal pay for women, expand children’s access to health insurance, and bring our economy back from the brink of collapse. “Instead of building on the progress our nation has made in the last eight years, President Trump is going backwards and returning to the failed trickle-down economic policies of the past. President Trump has made it easier for Wall Street to prey on Americans’ hard-earned retirement savings; appointed people to key posts in his administration who want to slash Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid; and declared war on Americans’ right to health care. “While he is rolling back our progress, the American people are waiting on President Trump to keep his promises. Where is his alternative to the Affordable Care Act that will provide even better and more affordable health care for everyone? Where is his plan to invest in our nation’s infrastructure? Where is his plan to help Americans living in urban areas like Baltimore? “The President tried to spin these failures as victories tonight, but I see the state of our union every morning as I leave my house. I see that many of my constituents are fearful and are questioning if they belong in America. I see families who are wondering what will happen to their health care. I see seniors who are wondering what will happen to Medicare and Social Security. And I see immigrant children living in fear of raids that will take away their parents. “It is time for President Trump to start representing all Americans. He must keep his promises to fight for middle-class families and workers, and he must ensure that all Americans—regardless of their race, gender identity, sexual orientation, religion or ethnicity—know that they are welcome in this country.”
02.28.2017	Washington, D.C. (Feb. 28, 2017)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump signed an executive order on Historically Black Colleges and Universities: “As a proud Howard University graduate, a member of Morgan State University’s Board of Regents and father of two Howard alumni, I know the vital role Historically Black Colleges and Universities play in preparing young people to become leaders in their communities. I also know that HBCUs need more than empty rhetoric and photo-ops. “While President Trump was posing for photos, his Secretary of Education was appropriating the rich history of these institutions to forward her crusade against public schools. She called them ‘pioneers when it comes to school choice,’ ignoring the fact that for most of this nation’s history, HBCUs were the only choice for African Americans. “HBCUs were created because racist admission policies refused to admit African American students. While segregation has ended, structural racism still exists in society today. That is why HBCUs still matter. If President Trump is serious about helping HBCUs, he must also be serious about removing the structural barriers African Americans still face, and he should put his money where his pen is by urging his colleagues in Congress to increase federal funding to HBCUs.”
02.16.2017	Washington, D.C. (Feb. 16, 2017)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s press conference: “I have no idea why President Trump would make up a story about me like he did today. Of course, Senator Schumer never told me to skip a meeting with the President. “I was actually looking forward to meeting with the President about the skyrocketing price of prescription drugs. What I have been doing for the past several weeks is working closely with my partner on these efforts, Senator Bernie Sanders. My goal was to finalize our proposal to allow HHS to negotiate lower drug prices so I could present it to the President. The President has said many times that he supports this proposal, so I wanted to have our bill ready to get his support. “I also sincerely have no idea why the President made this claim in response to an unrelated question about the Congressional Black Caucus. I am sure members of the CBC can answer these questions for themselves. “The skyrocketing price of prescription drugs is an issue that affects every American family—not just people of color—and I hope the President will make good on his promise to finally allow HHS to negotiate lower drug prices on behalf of American families. I look forward to meeting with him on this issue and others.” After being elected President, Donald Trump warned that the pharmaceutical industry is “getting away with murder.” He has said that Americans could save hundreds of billions of dollars if Medicare were allowed to negotiate prices directly with drug companies. “We don’t do it,” he said. “Why? Because of the drug companies.” He also said: “We need new bidding procedures for the drug industry.” He added: “Pharma has a lot of lobbyists and power. There is very little bidding on drugs.”
02.08.2017	Washington, D.C. (Feb. 8, 2017)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s attempts to silence Senator Elizabeth Warren as she read the words of the late Coretta Scott King during Senate Democrats’ talk-a-thon about Senator Jeff Sessions’ (R-AL) nomination for Attorney General: “Last night, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell attempted to silence not only Senator Elizabeth Warren, but the late Coretta Scott King. It was a shameful attempt to stifle the thorough debate on President Trump’s nominees that the American people expect and deserve. “I applaud Senator Warren and my Democratic colleagues in the Senate for fighting on behalf of the millions of Americans who have demanded that the next U.S. Attorney General be committed to upholding our most fundamental constitutional rights. “In the battles to come, both in Washington and in communities nationwide, I urge my colleagues to follow Senator Warren’s lead—as she persisted last night, so must we. We do not have the right to remain silent.”
02.07.2017	Washington, D.C. (Feb. 7, 2017)—Today, Reps. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Mia Love (R-UT), Raúl Labrador (R-ID), John Conyers (D-MI), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY) and Karen Bass (D-CA) introduced the Maintaining dignity and Eliminating unnecessary Restrictive Confinement of Youths Act of 2017 (MERCY Act). The MERCY Act would prohibit the solitary confinement of juveniles who are tried in the federal system and held in pretrial facilities or juvenile detention facilities, barring some extremely exceptional temporary circumstances. Sens. Cory Booker (D-NJ), Rand Paul (R-KY), Mike Lee (R-UT), James Lankford (R-OK), Richard Durbin (D-IL), and Bob Casey (D-PA) introduced the bill in the Senate. “When our youth are incarcerated, they are often already forced to reckon with the stark reality of the consequences of their actions—such as being separated from their friends and family and grappling with uncertain futures,” Cummings said. “Compounding incarceration with solitary confinement can break a young person’s spirt beyond repair, and it can have devastating long-term impacts on their mental and physical health. The MERCY Act will take a strong step toward eliminating this barbaric practice, so that we can ensure our youth have a chance to be rehabilitated and become contributing members of their communities.” “Our corrections system should not just administer justice but also aim to rehabilitate – not create new or exacerbate existing problems,” Love said. “Unfortunately, extended solitary confinement is linked to a host of long-term psychological issues. By ending its long-term use, this legislation preserves the dignity of individuals and protects their mental health. I am proud to join with my colleagues in introducing this legislation and look forward to helping move these reforms forward.” Labrador said, “Reforming our criminal justice system demands a focus on long-term outcomes. Solitary confinement of juveniles presents serious risk to the mental and physical health of young offenders who will return to our communities. We must ensure that incarceration practices don’t hinder their development as we work to set them on a path to become responsible, law-abiding members of society.” Conyers said, “We must reinforce actions taken by President Obama last year with respect to solitary confinement of juveniles in the federal system by enacting legislation to address this serious issue. As he noted, solitary confinement has the potential to lead to devastating, lasting psychological consequences, and this is particularly so with respect to juveniles. Over time, we have come to recognize these negative impacts and it is time that Congress act. Pursuing smarter strategies for dealing with challenges posed by individual prisoners, especially juveniles, will lead to more effective prison administration, a reduction in recidivism, and safer communities. ” “I am glad to see meaningful criminal justice reform incorporate the valuable insights offered by the MERCY Act in the pursuit of policy change to remedy the inhumane and harsh treatment suffered by juveniles and youth involved in our justice system,” Jackson Lee said. “I am delighted to be an original co-sponsor of this critical legislation and much needed effort to alleviate the cruel, brutal and inhumane conditions of confinement that prevent adolescent rehabilitation and participation in reentry programming. As I have often stated in the past, ‘meaningful criminal justice reform must look at all the ways the system touches the lives of our young people and communities and recognize that restoring their vulnerable population requires trauma-informed and age appropriate care. This legislation is step toward catapulting this nation into action on criminal and juvenile justice reform.” “Our criminal justice system is broken, especially when it comes to how we approach juvenile offenders – focusing on retribution instead of rehabilitation,” Maloney said. “Holding children and adolescents in solitary confinement is barbaric, detrimental to their health and can be extremely harmful to their development both mentally and physically. The MERCY Act takes an important step towards breaking the cycle of incarceration and gives young offenders the opportunity to become contributing members of our schools and community after they have served their time.” “The MERCY Act rightly calls attention to the need for smart reform and trauma-informed care for all justice-involved youth and is a necessary piece of legislation that aims to eliminate harmful and dangerous confinement practices for this vulnerable population. It is time we start addressing the underlying issues of trauma and abuse, as well as the emotionally damaging triggers of adolescent behaviors in a humane and medically informed way. The bottom line here is that cruel and inhumane conditions of confinement for youth in America must stop,” Bass said. The solitary confinement of young people is a serious and widespread problem in the United States. Each day, in jails and prisons across America, youth under the age of 18 are held in solitary confinement often for weeks or months at a time. In 2011 alone, more than 95,000 youth were held in prisons and jails, and a significant number were held in solitary confinement. In 2013, the Department of Justice found that 47 percent of juvenile detention centers locked youth in solitary confinement for more than four hours at a time, and some held youth for up to 23 hours a day with no human interaction. When subjected to solitary confinement, adolescents are often denied access to treatment and programming that would meet their psychological, developmental, and rehabilitative needs. Because youths are still developing, solitary confinement often seriously harms their mental and physical health, as well as their development. The Maintaining dignity and Eliminating unnecessary Restrictive Confinement of Youths Act (MERCY Act): • Bans Juvenile Solitary Confinement. The MERCY Act bans the use of “room confinement” in juvenile facilities, except as a temporary response to a behavioral issue that poses serious and immediate risk to any individual. • Requires Use of Less Restrictive Techniques. The bill ensures that before a juvenile is placed in room confinement, the staff member must use less restrictive techniques, including de-escalation techniques or discussions with a qualified mental health professional. • Encourages Transparency. The bill mandates that the juvenile be informed of why the room confinement placement occurred and that release will occur upon regaining self-control or after a certain period of time in solitary confinement. It also requires that the juvenile’s attorney and parents be notified when certain actions are taken. • Places Time Limits on Usage of Confinement. The MERCY Act limits solitary confinement on juveniles that pose a risk of harming others to no more than 3 hours and to juveniles who pose a risk of harm to themselves to no more than half an hour. It requires that juveniles be removed from room confinement once the risk of harm subsides. • Sets Minimum Conditions of Confinement. The bill ensures that the room used for room confinement in exceptional circumstances have adequate space, lighting, heating, cooling, ventilation, and access to water, toilet facilities, and hygiene supplies. • Requires Post-Confinement Services. After the maximum period of confinement, the bill mandates that juveniles be transferred to a facility where services can be provided. • Requires an Analysis. The MERCY Act requires that the Attorney General submit a detailed report to Congress on uses of force, restraints, and room confinement for juveniles.
02.03.2017	Washington, D.C. (Feb. 3, 2017) – Members of the Maryland Congressional delegation, led by U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.), have written to Governor Larry Hogan (R-Md.) urging him to protect the needs of his constituents by speaking out against the repeal of the Affordable Care Act without a viable replacement. The letter, signed by Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Representatives Steny Hoyer, Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes, John K. Delaney, Anthony G. Brown and Jamie Raskin, urges the governor to write to the President of the United States, the Majority Leader of the United States Senate, and the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives on behalf of Marylanders who would be affected by the repeal of the ACA. “As you know, Maryland’s uninsured rate has dropped significantly as a result of the ACA – from 10.2 percent in 2013 to 6.6 percent in 2015, with over 400,000 Marylanders gaining health care coverage. These individuals and families are now at risk of losing that insurance. While you have been vocal about defending Maryland’s All Payer Model, a goal we all share, it is absolutely critical that you also go on record defending the expansion of coverage,” the members wrote in their letter. “Wholesale repeal of the ACA will result in more uninsured patients which will drive up costs for the entire system and could put the All Payer Model at risk. To properly defend one, you must also defend the other,” they added. “Both Democratic and Republican governors across the country have said they oppose the repeal of the ACA. We ask you to stand with us and them in keeping the promise of affordable, accessible, high quality health care for Marylanders.” The full text of the letter is below and can be found here. February 3, 2017 The Honorable Larry Hogan Governor of Maryland 100 State Circle Annapolis, MD 21401 Dear Governor Hogan: As members of the Maryland Congressional Delegation, we are extremely concerned about current Republican proposals to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The ACA expanded coverage to 20 million Americans, including 400,000 individuals in Maryland, provided vital consumer protections in health insurance plans, and created thousands of healthcare-related jobs. For these important reasons, we encourage you to add your voice to those who are forcefully and publicly opposing efforts to simply repeal the ACA, by, among other measures, sending a letter to the President of the United States, the Majority Leader of the United States Senate, and the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. As you know, Maryland’s uninsured rate has dropped significantly as a result of the ACA – from 10.2 percent in 2013 to 6.6 percent in 2015, with over 400,000 Marylanders gaining health care coverage. These individuals and families are now at risk of losing that insurance. While you have been vocal about defending Maryland’s All Payer Model, a goal we all share, it is absolutely critical that you also go on record defending the expansion of coverage. Wholesale repeal of the ACA will result in more uninsured patients which will drive up costs for the entire system and could put the All Payer Model at risk. To properly defend one, you must also defend the other. A repeal of the ACA would affect millions in Maryland— not just those who gained health coverage. That’s because the ACA was successful in reforming predatory practices by insurance companies that were used to exclude millions of consumers from purchasing affordable, quality health insurance. Often referred to as the Patient’s Bill of Rights, these consumer protections require insurance companies to cover emergency services, adults and children with preexisting conditions, and preventive services with no cost-sharing, as well as eliminate annual and lifetime limits and allow children to stay on their parents’ plan until they turn 26. Repealing the ACA will not only dissolve these patient protections, it will eliminate critical financial assistance such as premium tax credits and cost-sharing reductions. Congressional Republicans have proposed either eliminating premium tax credits entirely or replacing them with fixed, flat amounts that don’t account for income, age or plan cost like they do under the ACA. This would reduce people’s ability to afford comprehensive coverage and would hit lower and moderate-income families the hardest. In 2015, 70 percent of the consumers who enrolled in private plans through the Maryland Health Connection were eligible for premium tax credits, and 50 percent were eligible for cost-sharing reductions or subsidies so this would have a devastating impact on many of our constituents. Our state’s economy would also suffer if the ACA is repealed with the loss of critical federal funding and thousands of jobs. In 2012, the Hilltop Institute at the University of Maryland estimated that the ACA with Medicaid expansion would add nearly 27,000 jobs in all sectors of Maryland’s economy. But the State of Maryland actually surpassed those initial estimates and stands to lose approximately 52,000 jobs in 2019 if the ACA’s premium tax credits and Medicaid expansion provisions are repealed. Eliminating Medicaid expansion would strip billions of dollars in Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) funds from Maryland. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Maryland would lose an estimated $1.9 billion in federal Medicaid funding in 2019 and $23.4 billion between 2019 and 2028. Further, turning Medicaid into a block grant or per capita cap program will affect the state’s ability to provide comprehensive, affordable health coverage for millions of otherwise uninsured low-income Marylanders and would also weaken the state’s ability to address public health emergencies and other crises that require quick and immediate action. According to estimates, states would see a reduction of almost $170 billion in federal funding in the tenth year of the plan—a 33 percent cut to state Medicaid budgets. Without a doubt, repealing the ACA and eliminating comprehensive, affordable coverage for the 400,000 Marylanders who have gained insurance along with critical consumer protections will have dire consequences for our state. But promoting the repeal of the ACA without a proposal that safeguards the progress we have made in helping millions gain quality, affordable coverage is unacceptable. Both Democratic and Republican governors across the country have said they oppose the repeal of the ACA. We ask you to stand with us and them in keeping the promise of affordable, accessible, high quality health care for Marylanders. Sincerely,
02.01.2017	Washington, D.C. (Feb. 1, 2017)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court: “Last year, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Republicans refused to perform their constitutional duty to advise and consent on President Obama’s nominee to the Supreme Court, Judge Merrick Garland. President Trump had an opportunity to unite our nation around a consensus pick like Judge Garland. Instead, he has nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch, whose record on the bench puts him outside the legal mainstream. “Now more than ever, our nation needs an independent Supreme Court that will defend the Constitution—not protect the interest of corporations and the powerful. “Judge Gorsuch has consistently sided with corporate interests over working families, and he has spoken publicly and often about his contempt for ‘the Left’ and ‘liberals.’ I am not confident that if confirmed, Judge Gorsuch would defend marginalized communities’ right to equal protection. This gives me grave concerns. We cannot allow this to become the new normal. “Before any vote is held on his confirmation, I urge my colleagues in the Senate to examine Judge Gorsuch’s record extremely carefully to ensure that he will defend the Constitution and working families. The American people deserve nothing less.”
02.01.2017	Washington, D.C. (Feb. 1, 2017)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement commemorating the beginning of Black History Month: “From Frederick Douglass to #BlackGirlMagic, African American history is American history. “I look forward to Black History Month every year, because it is an opportunity for our nation to celebrate the many ways African Americans have shaped America. “This month, we will tell and retell the stories of African Americans who are too often forgotten. We will tell the stories of people like Ms. Juanita Mitchell, who worked for the Baltimore NAACP, and helped me and my friends integrate Riverside Pool when I was 10 years old. “I have been proud to see our young people take to the streets to voice their displeasure with the direction of our country in recent weeks. For generations, countless African Americans have spoken up when they see injustice, and it is in their memory that we fight to protect our progress today. Not just for ourselves, but for generations yet unborn.”
01.18.2017	Washington, D.C. (Jan. 18, 2017)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement announcing his decision to attend the inauguration of President-Elect Donald J. Trump: “I plan to attend President-Elect Trump’s inauguration. This is a decision each Member must make for himself or herself. Like many of my colleagues, I have been fighting my entire life to create a more equal society for all Americans, so I certainly understand why some of them have come to the conclusion that they cannot attend. “There are so many people who came before me who struggled so that African Americans could be full participants in our democracy. I believe that I honor their sacrifice by asserting my democratic right to attend an inauguration. “The inauguration is bigger than President-Elect Trump. It is a chance for the world to witness our nation’s greatest ritual: the peaceful transfer of power. As millions of Americans witness the event, I want them to know that there will be Members of Congress present who will be vigilant to ensure that the Trump Administration is held to the highest ethical standards. Our democracy is the strongest in the world because our powerful executive is checked by an equally powerful legislative branch. “All Members of Congress—Republicans and Democrats serving in the House and Senate—swore to uphold the Constitution and protect the American people. It is our responsibility to do everything in our power to make sure that our federal agencies operate the way they were intended, and in an efficient and effective manner. “In two days, President-Elect Trump will control the world’s most powerful military and largest nuclear arsenal, and he will be the steward of the world’s largest economy. I fear that during his Administration, our political institutions will suffer a crisis of legitimacy. Many of our federal agencies, including the CIA and the FBI, will be tested. “Unfortunately, House Republicans have made clear that they have no intention of checking the Trump Administration. Instead, they have become contortionists in their efforts to avoid doing their jobs and have coordinated with the Trump campaign in their attacks on our nation’s top ethics officials. “Congress cannot sit by as a President fails to rectify his many conflicts of interest and refuses to acknowledge his impending violations of the Emoluments Clause. We must act as the last line of defense for our democracy, press Republicans to do their jobs, and hold President-Elect Trump accountable to the American people and the rule of law. We must also guard the progress that was made under President Obama by turning our protest into policy, and advancing legislation that will uplift the lives of the American people.”
01.16.2017	Washington, D.C. (Jan. 16, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement honoring the legacy of civil rights icon Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.: “Today, we celebrate Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s life, legacy, and his contributions to creating a more free, more fair America. We also celebrate the thousands of Americans who joined him in the Civil Rights Movement. “Dr. King’s dream was for every American citizen to have equal access to opportunity, without being hindered by race, gender, or class. Today, we must take pride in our progress, but we must work to create what Dr. King called the Beloved Community—a community founded on equal opportunity, justice and love for our neighbors.” “We must work to ensure that every child in America receives a high-quality education. We must work to ensure that all women receive equal pay for equal work. We must work to ensure that all Americans have an opportunity to lift themselves into the middle class.”
01.12.2017	Washington, D.C. (Jan. 12, 2017) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, and Congressmen John Sarbanes and Dutch Ruppersberger (all D-MD) in issuing the following statement after Baltimore City Mayor Catherine Pugh and U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch announced the finalization of a consent decree between the U.S. Department of Justice and Baltimore City Police Department: “Last summer’s DOJ report—which detailed systemic, repeated violations of the constitutional rights of Baltimore City residents—confirmed what many already knew to be true: the sacred trust between the Baltimore City Police Department and the people they are sworn to protect is in desperate need of repair. “We are very pleased to hear that the consent decree will be filed in court today, and applaud everyone who worked diligently these past several months to ensure that these negotiations move forward with the urgency they demand. “We look forward to learning more about the contents of this important document, and hope that it will provide the roadmap for reform the BPD needs. We must ensure that the basic human rights of every Baltimore City resident are respected and upheld by the police officers charged with keeping them safe. “In the months and years to come, it will be on us all to ensure that the BPD and the City fulfill their obligations. It will also be on us all to ensure that our brave officers in the BPD have the resources and support they need to best serve our City. We stand ready as partners with Baltimore City, the BPD and the people of Baltimore to begin a new chapter in the relationship between the police and the community.”Background On November 21, the Members sent a letter to Rawlings-Blake, Pugh and Lynch to inquire on the status of the consent decree negotiations after hearing growing concern from the community about the status of and delay in drafting the decree. The City began negotiating the consent decree with a stated goal of having it completed by November 1. In May 2015, all Democrats in the Maryland’s congressional delegation sent a letter to Lynch in support of then-Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake’s request to have the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division open a federal “pattern or practice” investigation of BPD.
01.11.2017	Washington, D.C. (Jan. 11, 2016) — Today, Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN), and Steve Cohen (D-TN) sent a letter to Congressmen Bill Shuster (R-PA) and Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, to request a hearing on school bus safety.“Despite a decent safety record, accidents still happen and they jeopardize the lives of our students,” the Members wrote. “Recent fatal school bus crashes in Maryland and Tennessee have raised urgent questions about the oversight of commercial school bus operators, including the adequacy of current procedures for assessing drivers’ medical fitness for duty and the safety history of companies that operate school buses.” In November, six people were killed when a school bus crashed into a car, “then struck a pillar” in a cemetery and finally collided head-on with a public transit bus in Baltimore, MD. The National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) preliminary report on the accident found that “The school bus driver had a history of hypertension, diabetes and seizures” and “In the past five years, had been involved in at least 12 crashes or incidents while operating a school bus or personal vehicle.” Three weeks later, in Chattanooga, Tennessee, a school bus crash killed six children. According to media reports, the driver in the accident was involved in at least one previous accident while operating a school bus, and “The private company that owned the bus has had 142 crashes with injuries and three fatalities in the past two years.” An NTSB report on that accident is expected shortly. The Members continued, “We urge the Committee to utilize its authority over the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to probe what more can be done to protect the nation’s schoolchildren, and whether any changes to federal law are warranted. We ask that you convene a hearing early in the 115th Congress to provide Members an opportunity to examine this critical safety issue.” Click here for a PDF of the letter. The full text follows: The Honorable Bill Shuster Chairman Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 2165 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC The Honorable Peter DeFazio Ranking Member Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 2164 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC Dear Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio: We write today to ask that the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure convene a hearing early in the 115th Congress to consider safety in the operation of school buses. In their overview of School Bus Safety, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) wrote that, “Every day across the country, nearly 500,000 buses travel a combined 260 million miles, carrying more than 25 million students to and from school and activities.” Despite a decent safety record, accidents still happen and they jeopardize the lives of our students. Recent fatal school bus crashes in Maryland and Tennessee have raised urgent questions about the oversight of commercial school bus operators, including the adequacy of current procedures for assessing drivers’ medical fitness for duty and the safety history of companies that operate school buses. On November 1, 2016, six people were killed in Baltimore, Maryland when a school bus crashed into a car, “then struck a pillar” in a cemetery, and finally collided head-on with a public transit bus. The NTSB launched an investigation of this accident and, on December 7, 2016, issued a preliminary report. In that report, the NTSB stated that “The school bus driver had a history of hypertension, diabetes, and seizures,” and “In the past five years, he had been involved in at least 12 crashes or incidents while operating a school bus or personal vehicle.” In addition, the NTSB found that although the school bus driver “held a current medical certificate,” he “was no longer authorized to operate a commercial motor vehicle” because that certificate “was not on file with the Maryland Motor Vehicle Administration.” On November 21, 2016, a school bus crash in Chattanooga, Tennessee, killed six children. Media reports indicate that the driver in that accident had had at least one previous accident while operating a school bus, and that “The private company that owned the bus has had 142 crashes with injuries and three fatalities in the past two years.” The NTSB has launched an investigation of this accident and, on December 1, 2016, the NTSB announced that it expected to publish a preliminary report “within the next few weeks.” While the NTSB investigations of these horrific crashes are ongoing, the facts in the cases that have come to light raise serious concern. We urge the Committee to utilize its authority over the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to probe what more can be done to protect the nation’s schoolchildren, and whether any changes to federal law are warranted. We ask that you convene a hearing early in the 115th Congress to provide Members an opportunity to examine this critical safety issue. Sincerely,
01.10.2017	Washington, D.C. (Jan. 10, 2017)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on President Barack Obama’s farewell address: “Tonight, President Obama exhibited the same poise and steady leadership he has exhibited since he was inaugurated in 2009. “During my entire career in Congress, I have never seen any president face the levels of obstruction that President Obama faced from congressional Republicans. They have stymied, blocked, and tried to torpedo nearly everything he has tried to do. Despite these roadblocks, the President kept his focus on who he was fighting for—not who he was fighting against. “In the darkest days of the Great Recession, our nation’s economy was in freefall. As a result of failed Republican economic policies, financial institutions were going bankrupt one after another, we were losing more than 700,000 jobs per month, and unemployment reached a high of 10%. “I remember very well the hearings we had in the Oversight Committee when Alan Greenspan admitted that he made a mistake by trusting our financial institutions to do the right thing. We heard testimony from the head of Lehman Brothers, and we heard from the credit rating agencies about the abuses in which they engaged. “President Obama turned our nation around. He pressed for a stimulus package that halted the bleeding. Working with a Democratic Congress, he stemmed the losses. He signed the Dodd-Frank bill, he passed the ACA, he enacted student loan reform, and he saved the auto industry. Since that time, the unemployment rate declined from 10% to 4.7%. We have had 75 consecutive months of job growth. And 20 million Americans now have the security of having health insurance. “President Obama lifted this nation from financial ruins and saved us from another Great Depression. Millions of Americans are better off today than they were eight years ago. “As President Obama begins his life outside the White House, remaining silent may not be an option when our nation is faced with issues that will affect generations yet unborn. If those moments arise, I urge him to continue speaking boldly. I also urge our new leaders to heed the President’s call to action. We must do all we can to protect our progress so future generations are not fighting the same fights tomorrow that we are today.”
12.23.2016	Washington, D.C. (Dec. 23, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement commemorating the 2016 holiday season: “In the coming days, millions of American families will come together to celebrate the holiday season and the end of another calendar year. I am grateful to have spent another year serving my constituents in Maryland’s Seventh Congressional District. “2016 was a difficult year for our nation. There have been more than 1,000 bias-related incidents in the weeks following the election, and many Americans are uncertain about the future. In the face of these trials, I am reminded of the great progress our nation has made in my lifetime, and I promise to continue fighting to protect that progress. “I wish every American a safe, happy and healthy holiday season. Let us all come together to create a more fair, more just society for generations yet unborn.”
11.28.2016	Washington, D.C. (Nov. 28, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) announced the winners of his 2016 Congressional App Challenge, Mr. Will Cervi, Ms. Priyanka Kargupta and Mr. Rees Draminski, all students at Mount Hebron High School. The students won for creating an app called Foodspin, which allows users to locate local restaurants. “I look forward to hosting the Congressional App Challenge every year because it inspires many students my district to be creative and build an application on the platform of their choice,” Cummings said. “I was very impressed by Priyanka, Rees and Will’s demonstration video. I look forward to seeing the great careers they will undoubtedly have.” The contest was open to high school students in the Seventh Congressional District of Maryland and is designed to promote innovation and engagement in coding and computer science. Students competed against their peers by creating an application or “app,” for mobile, tablet or computer devices. Submissions were judged on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The four judges who helped pick the winners were Ms. Sharon Kramer, Career and Technology Coordinator with Howard County Public Schools, Dr. Jayfus Doswell, Chief Executive Officer of Juxtopia, LLC and Ms. Lindsey Jones and Mr. Jordan Snyder, both Distance Learning Specialists with the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. A video of the students demonstrating their app is available here. Foodspin will be featured on the House of Representatives website and will be displayed at the U.S. Capitol alongside winning applications from Congressional districts nationwide.
11.23.2016	Washington, D.C. (Nov. 23, 2016)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement to commemorate Thanksgiving: “The Thanksgiving holiday allows us to reflect on the things that matter most. The holiday season draws us closer to family and friends as we share a Thanksgiving meal and give thanks for the blessings in our lives. “Today, I thank my neighbors in the 7th district of Maryland for granting me the honor of representing them; I am honored to have their trust.” “As we give thanks for our blessings in life, it is imperative that we think of others—those who are displaced and recovering from economic hardships, veterans still seeking work, and the children who will shape our future. We must always extend our support to those who are too often unheard.”
11.22.2016	Washington, D.C. (Nov. 22, 2016) — U.S. Senators Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin, Senator-Elect Chris Van Hollen and Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings, Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-MD) sent a letter yesterday to Attorney General Loretta Lynch, Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake and Mayor-Elect Catherine Pugh to inquire on the status of the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the City of Baltimore’s consent decree negotiations. The Members wrote, “We appreciate that it is no small task to ensure the decree fully addresses the DOJ recommendations and includes workable implementation steps. However, we are hearing growing concern from the community about the status of and delay in drafting the decree. We share those concerns. It is absolutely imperative that decisive, steady, urgent progress toward crafting a meaningful consent decree be made a top priority by all involved.” Following the release of the DOJ Civil Rights Division’s report on the “pattern or practice” investigation into the Baltimore City Police Department in August, the DOJ and the City began negotiating a consent decree with a goal of having the decree completed by November 1, 2016. The Members continued, “We are writing to request: (1) an update on the status of the consent decree; and (2) an updated timeline for its completion. We also write to strongly urge you to redouble your efforts to ensure that a meaningful decree is completed and approved as soon as possible.” Click here for PDF of the letter, the full text follows: The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 The Honorable Stephanie Rawlings-Blake Office of the Mayor 250 City Hall, 100 N. Holliday Street Baltimore, MD 21202 The Honorable Catherine Pugh 2901 Druid Park Drive, Suite 200C Baltimore, MD 21215 Dear Attorney General Lynch, Mayor Rawlings-Blake, and Mayor-Elect Pugh, We thank you for your ongoing commitment to ensuring that the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the City of Baltimore work together to improve policing in our community through the DOJ’s “pattern or practice” investigation. The findings released by the DOJ Civil Rights Division in its report this summer, as well as subsequent input from the Baltimore City community, have reaffirmed that the Baltimore City Police Department (BPD) is in dire need of reform and that the relationship between the BPD and the community is in disrepair. We understand that the City of Baltimore and the DOJ are negotiating a consent decree as the next step in the process of this investigation, and had been working toward a goal of November 1, 2016. However, that date passed almost three weeks ago, and a draft consent decree has still not yet been released. We appreciate that it is no small task to ensure the decree fully addresses the DOJ recommendations and includes workable implementation steps. However, we are hearing growing concern from the community about the status of and delay in drafting the decree. We share those concerns. It is absolutely imperative that decisive, steady, urgent progress toward crafting a meaningful consent decree be made a top priority by all involved. We are writing to request: (1) an update on the status of the consent decree; and (2) an updated timeline for its completion. We also write to strongly urge you to redouble your efforts to ensure that a meaningful decree is completed and approved as soon as possible. We appreciate the significant time and energy required to prepare for the transition of a mayoral administration, but it is absolutely necessary that the consent decree be a top priority for all at this crucial time. The safety of our community is at stake. Thank you again for your devotion to the people of Baltimore. We are eagerly awaiting an update. Sincerely,
11.17.2016	Washington, D.C. (Nov. 17, 2016)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) lauded the Department of Treasury Community Development Financial Institutions Fund for providing four organizations in his district $275 million in tax credits. The tax credits were awarded under the New Markets Tax Credit Program to Harbor Bankshares Corporation and Urban Action Community Development, LLC, both in Baltimore, Urban Research Park CDE, LLC in Hunt Valley, and ESIC New Markets Partners LC in Columbia.“I applaud the Obama Administration for awarding tax credits to these organizations so they can invest in jobs, community facilities and affordable housing for struggling families in Maryland and throughout the country,” Cummings said. The New Markets Tax Credit Program, established by Congress in December 2000, permits individual and corporate taxpayers to receive a non-refundable tax credit against federal income taxes for making equity investments in vehicles known as Community Development Entities (CDEs). CDEs that receive the tax credit allocation authority under the program are domestic corporations or partnerships that provide loans, investments, or financial counseling in low-income urban and rural communities. The tax credit provided to the investor totals 39 percent of the cost of the investment and is claimed over a seven-year period. The CDEs in turn use the capital raised to make investments in low-income communities. CDEs must apply annually to the CDFI Fund to compete for New Markets Tax Credit Program allocation authority. The 120 organizations receiving awards nationally were selected from a pool of 238 applicants that requested approximately $17.6 billion in allocation authority.
11.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) joined Congressman David N. Cicilline (D-RI) and 168 House Members to send a letter asking President-elect Donald Trump to rescind alt-right leader Steve Bannon’s appointment as White House Chief Strategist. Although Republican members of the House were invited to sign Cicilline’s letter, none did so. “We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few,” the Members wrote. Click here for a PDF of the letter. The full text and list of signers follows: Dear President-elect Trump: Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, “Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.” Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist. Since the election there have been a number of incidents across the country in which minorities, including Muslim Americans, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Jewish Americans, have been the targets of violence, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Bannon’s appointment sends the wrong message to people who have engaged in those types of activities, indicating that they will not only be tolerated, but endorsed by your Administration. Millions of Americans have expressed fear and concern about how they will be treated by the Trump Administration and your appointment of Mr. Bannon only exacerbates and validates their concerns. As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was “the platform for the alt-right,” a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a “Renegade Jew,” suggested “Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,” declared that the “Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage,” and praised the alt-right as a “smarter” version of “old-school racist skinheads.” Disturbingly, leading white nationalists like former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, American Nazi Party Chairman Rocky J. Suhadya, Richard Spencer, Peter Brimelow, and Brad Griffin have praised the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We believe it should concern you that civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, are widely opposed to Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. Once again, we strongly urge you to rescind this appointment immediately and build a diverse White House staff who are committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity and tolerance. Sincerely, David N. Cicilline (RI-1) Alma Adams (NC-12) Pete Aguilar (CA-31) Karen Bass (CA-37) Joyce Beatty (OH-3) Xavier Becerra (CA-34) Ami Bera (CA-7) Donald Beyer (VA-8) Sanford Bishop (GA-2) Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1) Madeleine Bordallo (Guam) Brendan Boyle (PA-13) Robert Brady (PA-1) Julia Brownley (CA-26) Cheri Bustos (IL-17) G.K. Butterfield (NC-1) Michael Capuano (MA-7) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) John Carney (DE-At large) Andre Carson (IN-7) Matt Cartwright (PA-17) Kathy Castor (FL-14) Joaquin Castro (TX-20) Judy Chu (CA-27) Katherine Clark (MA-5) Yvette Clarke (NY-9) William Lacy Clay (MO-1) Emanuel Cleaver (MO-5) James Clyburn (SC-6) Steve Cohen (TN-9) Gerald Connolly (VA-11) John Conyers (MI-13) Jim Cooper (TN-5) Joe Courtney (CT-2) Joseph Crowley (NY-14) Elijah Cummings (MD-7) Danny Davis (IL-7) Susan Davis (CA-53) Peter DeFazio (OR-4) Diana DeGette (CO-1) John Delaney (MD-6) Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) Suzan DelBene (WA-1) Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) Ted Deutch (FL-21) Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) Michael Doyle (PA-14) Tammy Duckworth (IL-8) Donna Edwards (MD-4) Keith Ellison (MN-5) Eliot Engel (NY-16) Anna Eshoo (CA-18) Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) Dwight Evans (PA-2) Sam Farr (CA-20) Bill Foster (IL-11) Lois Frankel (FL-22) Marcia Fudge (OH-11) Ruben Gallego (AZ-7) John Garamendi (CA-3) Gwen Graham (FL-2) Al Green (TX-9) Gene Green (TX-29) Raul Grijalva (AZ-3) Luis Gutierrez (IL-4) Janice Hahn (CA-44) Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1) Alcee Hastings (FL-20) Denny Heck (WA-10) Brian Higgins (NY-26) James Himes (CT-4) Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15) Michael Honda (CA-17) Jared Huffman (CA-2) Steve Israel (NY-3) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8) Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Hank Johnson (GA-4) Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) William Keating (MA-9) Robin Kelly (IL-2) Joseph Kennedy (MA-4) Dan Kildee (MI-5) Derek Kilmer (WA-6) Ron Kind (WI-3) Ann Marie Kuster (NH-2) James Langevin (RI-2) Rick Larsen (WA-2) John Larson (CT-1) Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander Levin (MI-9) John Lewis (GA-5) Ted Lieu (CA-33) Dave Loebsack (IA-2) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) Nita Lowey (NY-17) Ben Ray Lujan (NM-3) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1) Stephen Lynch (MA-8) Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Doris Matsui (CA-6) Betty McCollum (MN-4) Jim McDermott (WA-7) James McGovern (MA-2) Jerry McNerney (CA-9) Gregory Meeks (NY-5) Grace Meng (NY-6) Gwen Moore (WI-4) Seth Moulton (MA-6) Patrick Murphy (FL-18) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Grace Napolitano (CA-32) Richard Neal (MA-1) Richard Nolan (MN-8) Donald Norcross (NJ-1) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) Beto O'Rourke (TX-16) Frank Pallone (NJ-6) Bill Pascrell (NJ-9) Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10) Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) Scott Peters (CA-52) Chellie Pingree (ME-1) Mark Pocan (WI-2) Jared Polis (CO-2) David Price (NC-4) Mike Quigley (IL-5) Kathleen Rice (NY-4) Cedric Richmond (LA-2) Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) Raul Ruiz (CA-36) Tim Ryan (OH-13) Linda Sanchez (CA-38) John Sarbanes (MD-3) Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) Adam Schiff (CA-28) Kurt Schrader (OR-5) Bobby Scott (VA-3) Jose Serrano (NY-15) Terri Sewell (AL-7) Albio Sires (NJ-8) Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25) Adam Smith (WA-9) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Mark Takano (CA-41) Bennie Thompson (MS-2) Mike Thompson (CA-5) Dina Titus (NV-1) Paul Tonko (NY-20) Norma Torres (CA-35) Niki Tsongas (MA-3) Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Marc Veasey (TX-33) Nydia Velazquez (NY-7) Timothy Walz (MN-1) Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) Maxine Waters (CA-43) Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) Peter Welch (VT-At large) Frederica Wilson (FL-24) John Yarmuth (KY-3)
11.09.2016	Washington, D.C. (Nov. 9, 2016)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the results of the 2016 presidential election:“I congratulate President-elect Trump on winning the electoral college, and I thank Hillary Clinton for her decades of service to the American people. “I have always believed that we as a nation fare best when our eyes are focused on the road in front of us, rather than looking in the rear-view mirror. The campaign was difficult and hard-fought, but now is the time for us to look forward, not back. Now is the time to work together as a nation, not as two parties competing against another. Now is the time to unite as Americans not merely to find common ground, but to aspire to lift our nation to higher ground. “President-elect Trump said last night that he wants to unite our country; I take him at his word. It is now more important than ever that Congress does the very important business that the American people sent us to Washington to do: passing laws that uplift all Americans. “The President-elect and I may not agree on all things, but we both are determined to grow our economy and create more jobs to lift up America's working families. I am especially encouraged about Mr. Trump's expressed desire to increase infrastructure spending and begin repairing our roads, bridges, train stations and airports. I look forward to working with him on these issues and all matters that protect our rights and improve our lives.”
10.17.2016	Washington, D.C. (Oct. 17, 2016)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the passing of John Paterakis: “I join all my neighbors in mourning the loss of John Paterakis—one of Baltimore’s greatest philanthropists and business leaders. Throughout his life, John was a champion of Baltimore, from building one of the largest bakeries in America to giving generously to help programs in the city he loved. His vision, drive and service to the community represented the best of Baltimore. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Roula, his children, and his loved ones.”
10.07.2016	Washington, D.C. (Oct. 7, 2016)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Senator Ben Cardin, Rep. Chris Van Hollen, Rep. John Sarbanes, and Rep. Donna Edwards (all D-MD) sent a letter urging Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Director Richard Cordray to follow Maryland’s lead to develop a final rule that will protect consumers from predatory lenders. “As representatives of Maryland, a state with strong payday loan regulations, we believe our State’s experiences can help inform the development of a rule that provides the strongest possible protections for consumers,” the Members wrote. “A strong national lending standard would ensure improved protections for all borrowers from predatory online lenders.” In June, the CFPB proposed a rule that would require small-dollar lenders to ensure that their borrowers have an ability to repay the loan while meeting other living expenses and without renewing the loan. It would also close many loopholes in state laws exploited by small-dollar lenders. The Maryland Members offered three recommendations to strengthen the proposed rule: Every covered loan should be subject to the ability-to-repay requirement; The standard for determining basic living expenses should be objective; and Violations of state consumer lending laws should be deemed unfair, deceptive, and abusive acts of practices under federal law. While Marylanders are protected from payday lenders in their state, online lenders are still able to take advantage of residents. One lender’s website notes that “Maryland is one of the few states in America that have [sic] very strict regulations when it comes to payday lending,” but “the internet is open for business 24/7 and is full of payday lenders just waiting to offer you a payday loan.” A strong federal rule will further protect residents of Maryland and other states from these predatory tactics. The full letter follows: Oct. 7, 2016 The Honorable Richard Cordray Director, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 1700 G Street N.W. Washington, D.C. 20552 Dear Director Cordray: We are writing to comment on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (Bureau) proposed rule titled “Payday, Vehicle Title, and Certain High-Cost Installment Loans,” Docket No. CFPB-2016-0025. As representatives of Maryland, a state with strong payday loan regulations, we believe our State’s experiences can help inform the development of a rule that provides the strongest possible protections for consumers. The loans that would be subject to the Bureau’s proposed rule (collectively “covered loans”) are harmful to borrowers. According to the Center for Responsible Lending, the typical payday loan is for just $350, but the borrower will renew the loan eight times and pay more than $450 in fees. Research also shows that the typical car title loan borrower renews a loan eight times, eventually paying back more than three times the amount borrowed. One in five title loan borrowers ultimately has a vehicle repossessed. Not only are individual borrowers harmed by these loans, communities as a whole are harmed by payday and car title lending. When borrowers pay exorbitant fees to out-of-state payday loan companies, those dollars will not be reinvested in the community. When borrowers pay payday loan fees, they reduce their consumption of goods and services, which in turn reduces the income of local businesses, the wages of their employees, and the number of employees hired. One study found that payday and car title lending together cost the Florida economy more than $380 million and more than 2,000 jobs in 2012. In Maryland, residents are protected by state statutes that require lenders of covered loans to register with the State Commissioner of Financial Regulation, and limit covered loans to a maximum 33% interest rate. Auto title loans are effectively prohibited. According to the Center for Responsible Lending, Maryland borrowers save nearly $253 million annually from lower fees thanks to these statutes. We are pleased the Bureau recognizes that strong and effective rules, and especially state rate caps, are imperatives to protecting small-dollar borrowers. The Bureau notes it “believes that the fee and interest rate caps in these States would provide greater consumer protections than, and would not be inconsistent with, the requirements of the proposed rule.” Because interest rate caps are effective at protecting borrowers, we appreciate the Bureau’s decision to apply the proposed rule to all short-term loans with a total cost of credit exceeding 36%. In the draft rulemaking, the Bureau has proposed a strong rule that would implement a nationwide ability-to-repay standard. Under this standard, small-dollar lenders would be required to ensure that borrowers can make payments on the loans they receive while meeting their other major financial obligations and basic living expenses without having to take out additional loans. This standard is critical to ensuring borrowers do not get trapped in an endless cycle of debt. While we believe the proposed rule takes critical steps to protect consumers from abusive practices, we offer the following three recommendations to strengthen the proposed rule. Every covered loan should be subject to the ability-to-repay requirement. The proposed rule’s ability-to-repay requirement would not apply to all loans provided by predatory lenders. For example, under the proposed rule, lenders would be permitted to originate up to six short-term loans to a borrower in a 12-month period without conducting an ability-to-repay analysis. High-interest, limited underwriting loans are precisely the types of loans the Bureau should regulate. As such, the Bureau should require an ability-to-repay analysis before any covered loan can be originated. The standard for determining basic living expenses should be objective. While the proposed rule’s ability-to-repay requirement would prohibit lenders from originating covered loans to borrowers who cannot afford loan payments and also meet basic living expenses, the rule does not detail how basic living expenses are to be calculated. Without an objective definition, lenders may grossly under-calculate the basic living expenses of borrowers. This test in the Bureau’s proposal has the capacity to greatly affect Marylanders. Although Maryland has enacted a rate cap of 33 percent, there may be instances in which even one loan at that relatively low rate would violate a strong basic living expenses test. As such, the Bureau should require that all lenders use the same objective standard for determining basic living expenses. Violations of state consumer lending laws should be deemed unfair, deceptive, and abusive acts or practices (UDAAP) under federal law. Strengthening the proposed rule by deeming state violations to be UDAAP violations would enable state financial regulators to enforce their own laws more effectively and consistently. Deeming would apply the entire body of UDAAP law to state cases to guide determination of the acts or practices that meet the legal standard (including decisions by the Bureau) instead of leaving these matters to be resolved by state courts using standards that could vary from state to state and even from locale to locale. Even though Maryland’s statutes protect its residents, Marylanders will benefit by the implementation of a strong federal rule that incorporates the three improvements recommended above. Although the State’s statutes have helped protect Marylanders from exorbitant interest rates, they have not been able to prevent all forms of usurious lending from reaching residents through online venues. One site acknowledges that “Maryland is one of the few states in America that have very strict regulations when it comes to payday lending,” but notes that “the internet is open for business 24/7 and is full of payday lenders just waiting to offer you a payday loan.” Another site that markets payday loans to Marylanders online offers annual percentage interest rates that “range from 200% to 1386%.” These sites are providing or facilitating loans despite Maryland case law prohibiting their behavior. While the State’s Commissioner of Financial Regulation may bring cases against sites like these that offer loans to Maryland residents that violate Maryland law, the sheer number of online storefronts operating across jurisdictions makes policing by state regulators difficult and time-consuming. A strong national lending standard would ensure improved protections for all borrowers from predatory online lenders. We applaud the Bureau for its work on the Payday Lending Rule and appreciate its consideration of our comments. Sincerely,
10.06.2016	Washington, DC (October 6, 2016) – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski, with U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John P. Sarbanes (all D-Md.), have written to Howard County Sheriff James F. Fitzgerald asking him to resign his position in the wake of a detailed report from the Howard County Office of Human Rights. The full letter follows. October 6, 2016 Howard County Sheriff James F. Fitzgerald 8360 Court Ave Ellicott City, MD 21043 Dear Sheriff Fitzgerald: We were appalled to see the report from the Howard County Office of Human Rights detailing how you have created a hostile and abusive work environment for the nearly 70-person department you oversee. As federal elected officials with responsibilities for the people of Howard County, we urge you to prioritize the needs of the residents of the county you serve, as well as the officers under your command, and resign your office. The people of Howard County and its Sheriff’s office deserve leadership that understands that bullying, racism, sexism and anti-Semitism should have no place in American law enforcement. We find the behavior outlined by the Office of Human Rights unacceptable and an affront to the people who elected you and to the law enforcement officers of Howard County who serve this community with honor despite such toxic leadership. At a time when trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve has been strained in Maryland and nationwide, we hope you will do the right thing and allow the Howard County Sheriff’s Office to heal and move forward with new leadership that can demonstrate respect for all law enforcement personnel and the entire Howard County community. Sincerely,
10.03.2016	Washington, D.C. (October 3, 2016)—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), a founding Member of the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus, delivered the Congressional Black Caucus’ (CBC) Message to America on the importance of voting rights in the United States. Cummings is investigating Election Assistance Commission (EAC) Executive Director Brian Newby’s unilateral decision to grant the requests of Georgia, Kansas and Alabama to modify the federal voter registration form to require proof of citizenship in those states. Last week, Cummings questioned Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp about the justification for Georgia’s request; Cummings also urged Newby to rescind his unilateral action after it was revealed that he failed to weigh the potential for voter disenfranchisement in the three states. Last month, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued an order temporarily halting and reversing Newby’s action. Click here to watch Cummings’ CBC Message to America. A full transcript follows: Hello. I am Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, and I am proud to represent the people of Maryland’s Seventh Congressional District. I am pleased to deliver this week’s Congressional Black Caucus Message to America: Protecting Our Progress at the Ballot Box. The CBC was founded in 1971, and in the decades since, we have earned our reputation as the “conscience of the Congress.” For more than 40 years, the CBC has fought to protect and expand the right to vote for all Americans. So my friends, it is in that spirit, with days until our nation elects its next President that I bring to your attention blatant attempts to deny our community access to the ballot box. Thousands of African Americans marched, protested, fought and even died to ensure that every American had a voice in our democracy. Urging Congress to pass the Voting Rights Act in the spring of 1965, one week after Congressman John Lewis marched across the Edmund Pettus Bridge, President Lyndon Johnson said: “…all Americans just must have the right to vote. And we are going to give them that right.” President Lyndon Johnson was right. The right to vote is one of our most fundamental rights as Americans. It ensures that we each have a voice in this democracy. After the Voting Rights Act was enacted, African Americans were finally able to fully and freely participate in elections, and we’ve seen real change as a result over the years. African Americans were elected to serve and represent their communities at the state, local and national levels. And decades later, I will never forget the pride I felt watching Black Americans turn out to the polls in record numbers to elect our nation’s first African American president in 2008. In 2012, for the first time in any U.S. presidential election, eligible African Americans voted at a higher rate than white Americans. So I was disheartened when, in 2013, the Supreme Court’s ruling in Shelby v. Holder rolled back many of the protections that have guaranteed access to the ballot box for African Americans. In finding the formula at work in the Voting Rights Act to be out of date, the Supreme Court unfortunately removed one of the most effective tools the federal government has used to prevent states from passing laws that unfairly keep people from the ballot box. It should come as no surprise that Republican-controlled state governments nationwide saw this as their opportunity to pass some of the most egregious voter suppression legislation since Jim Crow. In one of the most appalling examples, only weeks after the Supreme Court’s Shelby Decision, the Republican-controlled North Carolina legislature passed a voter suppression omnibus that restricted early voting; required voters to present photo identification at the polls; and eliminated same-day voter registration. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit thankfully recognized this law for what it was, and struck it down, saying it “targeted African Americans with almost surgical precision.” While the court protected the rights of African Americans in North Carolina for this election, there are still new voter suppression laws on the books in 14 other states that will be in effect for the first time in a presidential election this fall. Voters in all those states will now face significant hurdles to accessing the ballot box. It is clear that we cannot rely solely on the courts. Congress must act. It is time for Speaker Paul Ryan to bring legislation to restore and update the pre-clearance provision of the Voting Rights Act to the House floor. We know that there is bipartisan support for this legislation. The proliferation of voter suppression legislation in the wake of the Supreme Court’s Shelby decision is proof that the protections of the Voting Rights Act are still very much needed in this nation today. As President Johnson told Members of Congress in 1965: “…all Americans just must have the right to vote.” He was right then, and he is right today. This isn’t about the 2016 election. This is much bigger than that. Many people died for the right to vote, and it is Congressional malpractice to sit by and watch that right dissolve. We must protect our progress not just for ourselves, but for generations yet unborn. Thank you.
09.28.2016	Washington, D.C. (September 28, 2016)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the passing of former President of Israel Shimon Peres: “Today I join the Israeli people in mourning the loss of President Shimon Peres—a founding father of Israel, crusader for peace and statesman. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones. “President Peres dedicated his life to ensuring the safety and prosperity of Israel, and through more than 60 years in public life, he showed the world that through bold vision and compassion, we can build a better tomorrow for our children. “The world is a better place because of President Peres. May we all seek to follow his example by dreaming big, fighting for what we believe in and truly embracing our neighbors.”
09.13.2016	Washington, D.C.(Sept. 13, 2016) — Today, U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), Chris Van Hollen (MD-08), John P. Sarbanes (MD-03), Donna F. Edwards (MD-04), and John Delaney (MD-06) issued the following statement applauding the announcement of a new Maryland Academy for Innovation in National Security. The announcement was made this morning by University of Maryland, Baltimore President Jay Perman and University of Maryland, College Park President Wallace Loh, who were joined by University System of Maryland Chancellor Robert Caret, at one of the two Maryland sites that are being proposed for the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) new, consolidated headquarters. The new academy is a partnership between UMB and UMD, which will allow two of Maryland’s premier research universities to work strategically and collaboratively with the FBI. In making today’s announcement, Presidents Perman and Loh, Chancellor Caret, national security experts, and education officials participated in a “Whistle Stop,” riding the MARC train and the Metro to Greenbelt to highlight the efficient transportation options in Prince George’s County. “We are very excited about this new national security partnership between the University of Maryland, College Park and the University of Maryland, Baltimore. From proximity to Washington and transit connections to world-class institutions of research and higher education and premier cyber security and defense facilities, there is no doubt that Maryland has the two best sites for the FBI’s new, consolidated headquarters. The creation of this new academy further strengthens our bid by providing the FBI with yet another asset that will benefit its current workforce, train its future workforce, and advance the FBI’s mission. We are also pleased that today’s event highlighted the efficient transit options that make Maryland’s sites convenient for the FBI and its employees. We thank Dr. Perman, Dr. Loh, and Chancellor Caret for their commitment to creating a strategic partnership with the FBI, as well as Mayor Emmit Jordan for hosting today’s event in Greenbelt.”
09.11.2016	Washington, D.C. (September 11, 2016)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement marking the 15th anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks: “Fifteen years ago today, our nation endured a great tragedy that took the lives of thousands of women, men and children in Washington, New York and Pennsylvania. “Like every American, I was struck by the images on my television on the morning of September 11, 2001. We must never forget this day, and we must treat it with great reverence and solemnity. “We must never forget the bravery of our first responders. Rather than running away from the crumbling buildings at Ground Zero, our first responders ran toward them. Rather than running away from the Pentagon as it burned, our first responders ran toward it. And first responders nationwide mobilized and prepared for the worst on that day, ready to run toward the danger to protect all of us. “We must never forget how our nation came together in the days and months following the attack. Every American—regardless of race, creed, sexual orientation or religion—turned our pain into purpose, promising to support all the victims of the attacks, their families, and our brave first responders. We must keep that promise. “Today, let us all take time to reflect on this day in our nation’s history. A day of great pain and sadness brought out the best qualities in our nation. As we did in the days following the attacks, let us go beyond seeking common ground, and seek higher ground together.”
09.02.2016	Washington, D.C. (September 2, 2016)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement in recognition of Labor Day: “The hard-working men and women that make up our workforce are America’s greatest resource. Today, we celebrate them and the labor movement, which has fought tirelessly to protect the rights of American workers. “If America is going to continue being a shining city upon a hill, we in Congress must work to provide our workers with more opportunity, not less. We must raise the federal minimum wage so no worker lives in poverty; we must guarantee that men and women are paid an equal wage for equal work; and we must ensure that the future of American workers is secure in retirement. “America is already great, but if we invest in our workers, we can make it even greater.”
09.01.2016	Washington, D.C. (September 1, 2016)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) received a briefing from Baltimore City Police Commissioner Kevin Davis on the Department’s aerial surveillance program. Last week, following reports of the previously-unknown program, Cummings requested a briefing from Commissioner Davis. The Congressman issued the following statement after the briefing: “I thank Commissioner Kevin Davis for providing me with a detailed briefing on the aerial surveillance program implemented by the Baltimore City Police Department in January. In our meeting, I expressed my concerns regarding the secret implementation of the program, and I urged the Commissioner to welcome a robust public discussion to determine how we can balance public safety and the constitutional right to privacy of every Baltimore resident. If we are going to rebuild the relationship between the police and the community, transparency must be paramount.”
08.26.2016	Washington, D.C. (August 26, 2016)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on Women’s Equality Day, which celebrates the anniversary of the ratification of the 19th Amendment, granting women the right to vote: “96 years ago today America took a step toward becoming a more fair society by ratifying the 19th Amendment. As we celebrate the progress we made on that day and in the years since, let us continue working to close the wage gap, guaranteeing paid family leave and expanding affordable child care, and respecting a woman’s right to choose. Congress needs to empower all women to fully participate in our economy, pursue their dreams and reach their full potential, because when women succeed, America succeeds.”
08.25.2016	Washington, D.C. (August 25, 2016)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on Baltimore City Police Department’s aerial surveillance program: “Today I spoke with Commissioner Kevin Davis and he will be providing me with a thorough review of the program. “That this program has been operating for months in secret is concerning. The DOJ report emphasized trust, and you cannot have trust without transparency. We must vet this program—with the help of organizations like the ACLU and NAACP Legal Defense Fund—to determine if there is a violation of people’s constitutional rights. “I am going to continue gathering information to examine if we can balance the investigative, public safety and law enforcement benefits of this program with the constitutional rights of the people of Baltimore.”
08.22.2016	Washington, D.C. (August 22, 2016)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement mourning the passing of groundbreaking journalist George E. Curry “My thoughts and prayers are with George E. Curry’s family and friends as they mourn his passing. “George was one of the most well-respected, fair and talented journalists in America—blazing a trail for African Americans in newsrooms nationwide. His contributions to the Civil Rights Movement were immeasurable, reporting African Americans’ struggles and triumphs to the entire country. He told our stories when many were afraid to do so. “George mentored countless African American journalists during his career, and inspired many others. Like all of his readers, I will miss George’s incredible wit and his astute commentary.”
08.10.2016	Washington, D.C. (August 10, 2016) — Today, the Department of Justice (DOJ) issued a report on its “pattern or practice” investigation into allegations of brutality and misconduct by the Baltimore City Police Department (BPD). Following the death of Mr. Freddie Gray in April of last year, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) and all Democrats in Maryland’s congressional delegation sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch in support of Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake’s request that the DOJ investigate allegations of civil rights violations by the BPD. Cummings issued the following statement after the release of the report:“This report validates what so many residents in Baltimore City already know to be true – that the trust between our law enforcement officers and the communities they serve has been repeatedly violated and is in desperate need of repair. It also underscores just how much damage we must undo, and how much work is ahead of us. “It troubles me to read how frequently the Baltimore City Police Department has engaged in various disturbing patterns or practices, including excessive use of force and unjustified and severe disparities in the rates of stops, searches, and arrests of African Americans. The statistics are simply astounding, and the unconstitutional violations of our citizens’ rights are unacceptable. “But as troubling as this report is, the first step in fixing a problem is to understand it, so I am grateful for the Department of Justice’s hard work bringing to light the severity of the systemic issues facing the BPD. The DOJ also importantly outlined the sources of these issues, including failures in training and equipping officers, collecting data, and holding officers accountable. I look forward to the DOJ’s forthcoming suggestions on how the BPD can make the improvements necessary to solve these problems. “I commend Commissioner Kevin Davis for taking an open and constructive approach to the DOJ’s review, and for proactively implementing policy reforms to improve the BPD, including updating the use-of-force policy and requiring that new recruits spend their first three months in the community in order to learn about Baltimore City’s people and history. “I am confident that Commissioner Davis will continue to reform our police department under the helpful guidance of the DOJ. This must be a transformative moment that leads to a movement to make the BPD a model for the nation. “All Baltimore City residents deserve a police department that they trust will respect and serve them and I intend to monitor the progress of this review in the months and years ahead to ensure that the BPD works tirelessly to regain the public’s confidence.”
08.06.2016	Washington, D.C. (August 6, 2016)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement mourning the passing of Congresswoman Helen Delich Bentley: “I send my thoughts and prayers to Helen’s family and friends as they mourn her passing. “I have known Helen Bentley for over 25 years. Helen was more than a great congresswoman, she was my mentor and close friend. Under her leadership, the port of Baltimore remained one of the best in the world, so when I became Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, she was the first person I turned to for guidance. She was a tremendous resource and selflessly assisted me in getting acclimated to the new role. “She served on the board of the Maritime Industries Academy High School with me for nearly a decade, where she consistently demonstrated her commitment to ensuring that inner-city students received a meaningful education. “I visited Helen several weeks ago and her last words to me were, ‘Keep fighting for our children.’ I will miss my friend dearly. I will miss her inspirational words and her guidance. “Maryland and the nation have lost a true humanitarian.”
08.06.2016	Washington, D.C. (August 6, 2016)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement commemorating the 51st anniversary of the Voting Rights Act of 1965: “Fifty-one years ago today, President Lyndon B. Johnson affirmed the right to vote as the foundation of American democracy by signing the Voting Rights Act. As we have seen in the years since the Supreme Court’s ruling in Shelby County v. Holder in 2013, we must remain vigilant and fight to protect the right to vote from states that seek to silence entire communities. “Last week, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit struck down North Carolina’s voter restriction laws, writing that ‘the new provisions target African Americans with almost surgical precision.’ While I am hopeful that the courts will continue to uphold our most fundamental right as citizens by striking down state voter restriction legislation, we cannot rely solely upon the courts to solve this problem. Congress must act. “Today, months before our nation elects our next President, I am calling upon Speaker Paul Ryan to put country before politics and immediately act on legislation to restore the Voting Rights Act to ensure that all Americans have a voice in our democracy. “Congress must vote so that every American can vote.”
07.31.2016	Washington, D.C. (July 31, 2016)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) joined Howard County Executive Alan Kittleman on a tour of Main Street Old Ellicott City to assess flood damage caused by yesterday’s storms. Cummings said: “Last night’s severe flooding devastated countless businesses and residents in Ellicott City. I applaud our brave first responders for their swift action to save dozens of residents stranded in their homes and their cars. Recovering from this disaster will be long and difficult, but I am certain that together we will rebuild all the areas impacted by the storms.” This morning, Cummings urged Governor Hogan to request federal assistance from the Obama Administration to aid in recovery. “I urged Governor Hogan to request federal disaster assistance from the Obama Administration and he agreed. I told him that I will work with our state’s congressional delegation to ensure that Ellicott City receives the resources necessary to rebuild,” Cummings said. Cummings speaks with Ellicott City residents evacuated during July 30, 2016 flood
07.19.2016	Baltimore, MD (July 19, 2016) – Today, Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings and John Sarbanes (both D-MD) and Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawling announced a new agreement between the U.S. Department of Energy, the Maryland Clean Energy Center and the City of Baltimore to increase access to solar energy for low-income households. In addition to expanding the city’s clean energy capacity, the agreement will improve access to home weatherization and help lower energy bills. Importantly, by increasing solar energy access and capacity, it will support job training for unemployed or underemployed community members to become a part of the renewable energy industry workforce. The announcement featured a live solar installation led by nonprofit GRID Alternatives. The installation is one of GRID’s 31 solar installation projects in partnership with the City, Baltimore Energy Challenge, Morgan State University, Coppin State University and local job training groups. “The Obama Administration has helped more Americans than ever before power their homes with solar energy, which has helped American families lower their electric bills, while expanding job opportunities in renewable energy. But even as the cost of solar energy is decreasing, access is still cost prohibitive for many American families, and too many Americans do not have the training needed to enter the industry,” Congressman Cummings said. “This innovative partnership will help solve both these problems for Baltimore residents. It will give families access to solar technology to save them money on their energy bills, and it will also support job training for our neighbors who want to become solar installation technicians.” “No one program or initiative can fully ameliorate the deep-seated and long-term inequality plaguing many communities within our city, but this new initiative is an important step in addressing the persistent poverty and the lack of economic opportunity that exists in too many Baltimore neighborhoods,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “These types of programs will not only help families reduce their electric bills, but also help train many unemployed and underemployed Baltimoreans to become solar installation technicians. Moving forward, we need to put more programs in place like this one and continue looking for ways to bring well-paying jobs and economic opportunities to Baltimore.” "I'm excited to formalize this partnership with the U.S. Department of Energy and the Maryland Clean Energy Center, which will increase access to solar installations for low-income families, support high-paying, sustainable jobs and establish Baltimore City as a Clean Energy Hub," said Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. "The outcomes of this MOU will help accelerate the adoption of energy efficiency and solar projects for low income home owners, business owners, local government, non-profit and faith-based institutions,” said David Foster, Senior Advisor at the U.S. Department of Energy. "MCEC sees an important role in this partnership of clearing any hurdles that could impede project financing," said Katherine Magruder, Executive Director of the Maryland Clean Energy Center. “As an added bonus, we will help homeowners reduce their energy costs and train a ready workforce for future jobs."
07.18.2016	Washington, D.C. (July 18, 2016)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the verdict in State of Maryland v. Brian Rice: “Today Judge Barry G. Williams found Mr. Brian Rice not guilty of all charges. I thank Judge Williams for ensuring a fair process for all parties involved in this trial. I thank every Baltimore resident for respecting Judge Williams’ rulings and for expressing any frustrations constructively by engaging in peaceful protests. “Like every city in America, Baltimore must continue to find ways to improve the relationships between our communities and police departments. While recent attacks on law enforcement in Dallas, Baton Rouge and in our own city have been painful reminders of the dangers our officers face on the job daily, we must continue making reforms to our police department. “I am pleased that Commissioner Kevin Davis has worked to implement several reforms, including a commitment to recruiting the best officers to join the Baltimore Police Department; a mandate that all recruits spend more than 3 months engaging in community policing when they join the force; a plan to teach all recruits about Baltimore’s history and culture; and an updated and clearer use of force policy. “I look forward to further reforms at the Baltimore Police Department. I believe that such reforms will go a long way toward creating and fostering a healthy relationship between police and the entire Baltimore community. We must turn toward each other, and not against each other.”
07.13.2016	Washington, D.C. (July 13, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued a statement on the Senate confirmation of Enoch Pratt Free Library Chief Executive Officer Dr. Carla D. Hayden to be Librarian of Congress. Dr. Hayden is the first African American and first woman to lead the Library of Congress. “History was made today with Dr. Carla Hayden’s unprecedented confirmation to lead the Library of Congress. As the Chief Executive Officer of the Enoch Pratt Free Library, Dr. Hayden transformed an aging system into a world class institution of information and technology,” Cummings said. “Her broad, bipartisan support in the Senate is a testament to her unquestionable qualifications. Like she did with the Pratt Library, I am sure Dr. Hayden will uphold the rich traditions of the Library of Congress while bringing innovation and creative leadership to a national treasure.”
07.08.2016	Washington, D.C. (July 8, 2016)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the attack on police officers in Dallas, Texas:“Last night, during a peaceful protest, brave police officers in Dallas were targeted and murdered in a despicable act of terror. I am horrified by this display of violence, and I condemn it with every fiber of my being. I join all Americans in mourning the deaths of these officers. “While we do not yet have a motive for this attack, we do know that it was another act of hatred fueled by high-powered weapons. “As the son of two preachers, I rely on my faith during times of distress, so today I will be praying for our entire nation as we continue working to create a society that values every life.”
07.07.2016	Washington, D.C. (July 7, 2016)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement in response to the recent deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile: “I join the families, friends and communities of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile in mourning the loss of what could have been. Once again, my heart aches at seeing the lives of Black men cut short at the hands of those who pledged to serve and protect them. Stories of people of color killed while in police custody have become all too common, and it is beyond time for America to address the role of race in this country and its effects on policing. I will be following both cases closely to ensure that we get answers about the circumstances that led to the deaths of these men, and to make sure that justice is served. “As I told Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey at today’s Oversight Committee hearing, this morning I woke up to my wife crying while watching the videos of what happened in Baton Rouge and Minnesota. At today’s hearing, I urged the FBI Director to watch them as well. There are many excellent police officers in this country and I am grateful for that. But we cannot continue to allow our Black men to be slaughtered. It is so painful. I am fortunate that as a 65-year-old African-American man moving toward the twilight of my life in this country, I have not been harmed by the police. But I will tell you that I have been stopped what has felt like 50 million times, and I urged the Director to help us get a hold of these issues of policing in our nation.” Click here for a video of Cummings’ exchange with FBI Director James Comey.
07.03.2016	Baltimore, MD (July 3, 2016) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released the following statement after the passing of Holocaust survivor and Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Elie Wiesel: “I join the world in mourning the loss of a brilliant messenger of peace. After experiencing the horrors of man’s inhumanity to man, Elie Wiesel rose above hatred and bigotry to become a voice of morality and human dignity for the world. He spent his life helping us see the best in each other, and we are all better for it. My prayers are with Elie Wiesel’s family. May he rest in peace.”
06.29.2016	Washington, D.C. (June 29, 2016) – Today, Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, Dutch Ruppersberger, and John Sarbanes (all D-MD) marked the National Day of Action for Commonsense Gun Violence Prevention at Cathedral of the Incarnation in Baltimore. The Representatives were joined by Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh, Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis, Baltimore City Health Commissioner Dr. Leana Wen, survivors of gun violence, families of victims, and faith leaders. “I was proud to join my colleagues on the House floor last week to say ‘enough is enough,’ and I am proud to continue the fight during today’s National Day of Action,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is time for Republican lawmakers to treat gun violence like the scourge on our country that it is. The American people have had enough, and so have I.” "Our message today is simple: no more business as usual in the House of Representatives until we get an up-or-down vote on common sense gun safety measures," said Congressman Van Hollen. "Today we stand with children who have seen the horror of gun violence firsthand, with mothers and fathers who have lost their sons and daughters to senseless violence, and with the vast majority of Americans who are fed up with moments of silence that are never followed by action. We will continue to demand action until the 'people's House' acknowledges the will of the American people and votes on measures to save lives and prevent the next tragedy." “We aren't asking for much - just a chance to vote on common sense reforms that Americans overwhelmingly support to help keep guns out of the hands of terrorists and criminals,” said Congressman Ruppersberger. “Ensuring national security is the most important job of Congress. This issue is no different.” “Today, I was proud to join Marylanders – and the national, bipartisan chorus of Americans – who are continuing the fight for commonsense gun safety laws,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “For too long, big money special interests like the NRA have blocked Congress from taking action to reduce gun violence in American communities. But today, we’re coming together and standing up to say enough is enough.” Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh said, “Virginia Tech. Newtown, Connecticut. Nine in a church, 23 in a restaurant, 26 in an elementary school, now 49 in a nightclub. The faces in the memorial photos are what change. The weapons are the common denominator. As we hear about mass shooting after mass shooting, in state after state – I am more convinced than ever that the common sense safety regulations we have in Maryland need to be in place across the country. Congress must act.” “Gun violence is an epidemic that has impacted too many lives across the country and especially in big cities,” said Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis. “We must work tirelessly and in partnership to deter those who want to illegally arm themselves with guns, and arrest and prosecute those who choose to illegally possess guns with the specific intent of harming our communities.” “As an ER doctor who has treated patients dying of gunshot wounds and as the City of Baltimore’s doctor, I have no doubt that gun violence is a public health crisis,” said Baltimore City Health Commissioner Dr. Leana Wen. “Unlike so many medical ailments that do not have a cure or a vaccine, with gun violence, we have the power to make change, prevent injury, and save lives.” The National Day of Action for Commonsense Gun Violence Prevention comes after Democrats sat on the House floor for 26 hours last week to demand that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans allow an immediate vote on two bipartisan, common sense gun violence prevention bills to help keep guns out of dangerous hands: • The bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to expand and strengthen our background check system; and, • The bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ bill to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists. House Republicans have voted 14 times to block consideration of the bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ legislation. Republican leaders adjourned the House early for the Fourth of July recess, leaving Washington without bringing these bipartisan gun violence prevention bills to the floor for an up-or-down vote.
06.23.2016	Washington, D.C. (June 23, 2016)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the Supreme Court decision in Fisher v. Texas: “It is clear that our country has not yet overcome the legacy of slavery and segregation that led to the creation of affirmative action policies in the 1960s, and it is a policy that is as relevant today as it was then. Today’s ruling proves that not only is affirmative action still necessary to promote racial equality in America, it is constitutional.”
06.23.2016	Washington, D.C. (June 23, 2016)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the verdict in State of Maryland v. Caesar Goodson: “Three cases have been heard in the death of Mr. Freddie Gray, and throughout, Judge Barry G. Williams has shown himself to be a tough, fair adjudicator. Today, after weighing the evidence presented by Mr. Goodson’s defense attorneys and the prosecution, he found Mr. Goodson not guilty on all charges. I know that many of our neighbors will be disappointed and frustrated by today’s verdict, and I understand those emotions. But we must continue to channel our energies into efforts to improve our city for all residents, and continue to improve our police department’s practices and procedures to ensure that the policing of our streets is conducted professionally, safely, and fairly in all parts of our city. Baltimore’s future does not rest on the outcomes of the trials surrounding Mr. Freddie Gray’s death. Baltimore’s future rests on every one of us.”
06.22.2016	Washington, D.C. (June 22, 2016)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement after joining House Democrats to stage a sit-in against congressional inaction on gun violence: “Every year, tens of thousands of Americans die as a result of gun violence. In some states, firearms take more lives than car accidents. “The American people are fed up with inaction and so am I. It is time for House Republicans to treat gun violence like the scourge on our country that it is. “Our thoughts and prayers aren’t enough. Our moments of silence aren’t enough. We must act, and I am proud to sit with my colleagues to urge a vote on legislation to prevent gun violence. Enough.”
06.12.2016	Washington, D.C. (June 12, 2016)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the tragic mass shooting at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida: “The shooting in Orlando was a tragic act of hatred and terror, and I grieve for the victims of this senseless crime and their loved ones. “We must not, and we cannot, let fear win because these attacks are intended to tear us apart as a nation. Instead, we must continue to love each other and cherish the shared values that make us Americans. “In the wake of yet another tragedy enabled by guns, we must come together to prevent dangerous people from getting their hands on dangerous weapons.”
06.04.2016	Washington, D.C. (June 4, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the passing of boxing legend and human rights activist Muhammad Ali: “My prayers are with Muhammad Ali’s friends and family as they mourn his death. “As a child, I was inspired by the way he moved in the ring, but the man he was outside the ring has inspired me even more. “Ali stood on his principles at a time when many people in our country were telling him not to, and for that display of courage, we are all grateful. He represented the best of what makes us Americans—courage, confidence, grace and humility. “His picture hangs in my office as a daily reminder that even when it is difficult to do so, we must all do what we believe in, and we must do what is right. “Last night the world lost its Champion. May he rest in peace.”
06.02.2016	Washington, D.C. (June 2, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) sent a letter to Maryland Governor Larry Hogan urging him to act on his commitment to examine barriers affecting formerly-incarcerated Marylanders. In December, Hogan announced that his administration would convene a multi-agency working group to examine and recommend changes to regulations and laws that create unnecessary collateral consequences for formerly incarcerated individuals in Maryland. “As we are coming up on the six-month anniversary of your announcement, I had hoped that the group’s work would be well underway,” Cummings wrote. “However, based on the last information I was able to receive from your office at the beginning of April 2016, members of the collateral consequences working group had not yet been designated.” In December 2014, the Vera Institute of Justice released a report, stating that: “Research shows that recidivism is reduced and communities are made safer not by rendering the millions of people with criminal records second class citizens, but by supporting their transition and reintegration into the community.” In Maryland, there are over 1,000 provisions that create legal barriers for those with criminal records, according to the American Bar Association’s National Inventory of Collateral Consequences of Conviction. These consequences prevent many Maryland residents from voting, gaining employment, starting a business or obtaining student loans. Cummings is a leader in the fight in Congress to help formerly-incarcerated Americans reenter society. In September of last year, he introduced the bipartisan, bicameral, Fair Chance Act, which would delay questions about applicants’ criminal histories until later in the federal hiring process. Last month, following a House letter co-led by Cummings urging President Obama to act, the Office of Personnel Management proposed a rule to delay questions about criminal records until later in the hiring process for tens of thousands of federal government positions. Cummings urged the Governor to build on the work accomplished at the federal level, and to make Maryland a national leader in reentry, concluding, “I truly hope that the lack of new information on your collateral consequences working group does not mean a lack of progress behind the scenes. I respectfully request an update on your efforts since your announcement in December, as well as a proposed timeline for your actions moving forward. I am sure you would agree that our communities and their residents cannot afford to wait any longer.” Click here to view the letter, the full text follows: June 2, 2016 The Honorable Larry Hogan Governor of Maryland 100 State Circle Annapolis, MD 21401 Dear Governor Hogan: I am writing to request an update on your initiative to examine barriers faced by Maryland citizens with criminal records. As you may recall, I wrote to you in December 2015 to commend your December 16, 2015 announcement that you would convene a multi-agency working group to examine and recommend changes to regulations and laws that create unnecessary collateral consequences for formerly incarcerated individuals. As we are coming up on the six-month anniversary of your announcement, I had hoped that the group’s work would be well underway. However, based on the last information I was able to receive from your office at the beginning of April 2016, members of the collateral consequences working group had not yet been designated. I understood that you planned to ramp up your work on this effort once the legislative session ended, but since April, my office has not heard of further progress. This is why I am writing you now to request an update on the progress of this working group and to urge you to make this effort a top priority. On the federal level, I have been working hard to reform our reentry policies. For example, in September 2015, I introduced the bipartisan Fair Chance Act (H.R. 3470), which would delay questions about applicants’ criminal histories until later in the federal hiring process, and I have cosponsored other bills that break down barriers facing those with criminal records. I have also written to the Obama Administration on the issue. In April I co-led 50 of my House colleagues in sending a letter to the President urging him to take executive action to solidify fair chance hiring policies through federal regulations. I have been so pleased to see President Obama’s Administration make significant progress on reentry issues these past several months. Not only did the Administration recognize the first-ever National Reentry Week, but it backed up that announcement with action. Among other developments, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development issued new guidance that protects those with criminal records from unfair housing discrimination. The U.S. Office of Personnel Management published a proposed rule to solidify fair chance hiring policies for tens of thousands of jobs in the competitive service and career senior executive service. The U.S. Department of Education has also urged colleges and universities to remove barriers that prevent those with criminal records from pursuing higher education. It is because of this remarkable progress at the federal level that I have had such high hopes for what can be done in Maryland. As I have mentioned in the past, according to the American Bar Association’s National Inventory of the Collateral Consequences of Conviction, Maryland has at least 1,000 provisions that create “legal sanctions and restrictions imposed upon people because of their criminal record.” Especially after your announcement in December, I have been encouraged that our state is poised to do what President Obama’s Administration has done: examine the laws and regulations on the books, and determine where they can be improved to reduce recidivism, benefit public safety, and help those individuals returning to our communities. I truly hope that the lack of new information on your collateral consequences working group does not mean a lack of progress behind the scenes. I respectfully request an update on your efforts since your announcement in December, as well as a proposed timeline for your actions moving forward. I am sure you would agree that our communities and their residents cannot afford to wait any longer. Thank you again for your attention to this very important initiative. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress
05.27.2016	Washington, D.C. (May 27, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement recognizing Memorial Day: “I feel a strong sense of gratitude when I think of the fallen soldiers who paid the ultimate price to defend our nation. “This Memorial Day, and every day, the friends and families of our nation’s fallen should know that their sacrifice has not gone unnoticed or unappreciated. We can never repay them, but we can honor their courage by continuing to fight to preserve our democracy for generations yet unborn. “While we honor the memories of the fallen, we cannot forget the many who return. We must ensure that they receive the medical care, employment, housing, and support they deserve. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to ensure that our veterans have access to the resources they need.”
05.23.2016	Washington, D.C. (May 23, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the verdict in State of Maryland v. Edward Nero: “Every American has the right to a trial decided by a jury of their peers or a trial decided by a judge. Mr. Edward Nero chose to forgo a jury and exercised his right to have Judge Barry G. Williams decide his case. Today, Judge Williams—after hearing the evidence presented by the prosecution and Mr. Nero’s defense attorneys—issued a not guilty verdict in this trial; I thank him for his service. “Like many Baltimore residents, I was personally struck by Mr. Freddie Gray’s death, and I know that we will all continue to struggle with the strong emotions it invokes in us. “Following Mr. Gray’s death, the citizens of Baltimore demanded justice, and it is clear that the wheels of justice are turning. I commend the Baltimore City State’s Attorney’s Office for its efforts to pursue justice, and I thank everyone who has worked on Mr. Nero’s trial. “Justice has always relied on trust in the judicial process, and that is what I call on all of Baltimore’s residents to do because there will be more trials in the death of Mr. Freddie Gray. We cannot control the outcome of any of these trials, but what we can control is our work to continue healing our community. “With eyes toward the future, we must continue working to reform our criminal justice system—in Maryland and nationwide—and we must continue to invest in our young people. Baltimore is a city on the rise, but the question is: will we all rise together? “I believe that we are on the road to creating a city that uplifts all of its residents. Today’s verdict should not take us off course, instead, it should remind us of the importance of the road ahead.”
05.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Members from communities that have been hardest hit by the growing opioid crisis joined together today to introduce legislation calling for more than $1 billion in funding to combat the epidemic. Led by Representatives Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Ben Ray Luján (NM-3), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Joe Kennedy III (MA-4), Derek Kilmer (WA-6), and Anne McLane Kuster (NH-2), the Opioid and Heroin Abuse Crisis Investment Act has the support of 90 House Democrats and reflects President Obama’s budget request for much-needed resources to increase treatment programs that will help address the drug crisis. In 2014, 47,055 people died from drug overdose, with opioid overdose accounting for 28,000 deaths, an increase of 200 percent since 2000. With 78 people dying from overdoses of heroin and prescription opioids per day—and deaths from the opioid epidemic surpassing the number of Americans killed in motor vehicle accidents each year—more resources are needed for prevention, treatment, and recovery. “Growing up in Baltimore, I saw the destructive nature of opioid and heroin addiction, which destroys lives and tears apart families and communities. We can no longer afford to ignore this public health and safety crisis,” Congressman Elijah E. Cummings said. “While I fully support the package of opioid bills moving through the House of Representatives as a first step, it will take actual funding to attack this crisis—funding that these bills unfortunately do not provide. The bill we introduced today will give our partners on the frontlines the funding they need to fight this epidemic by supporting treatment and recovery, as well as programs to monitor and disrupt the flow of opioids into our communities.” “The drug crisis is tearing apart the fabric of communities in New Mexico and across the country,” Congressman Ben Ray Luján said. “While there are many dedicated individuals who are working as hard as they can to help our friends and neighbors who are struggling with drug abuse, it is painfully clear that the only way we can make significant progress is by putting in the resources that will make treatment and prevention more accessible and affordable. Right now, too many people who want help and need help simply cannot get it. This legislation, with a commitment to provide robust funding, represents a much-needed step forward that will save lives.” “When I worked for nonprofit agencies committed to addressing substance abuse, I saw how addiction devastates families,” said Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard. “If America is serious about fighting the opioid crisis, if American families are serious about saving the lives of our friends, neighbors, and loved ones, then we must make the necessary robust investments in effective treatment and prevention measures. That is exactly what our bill seeks to do.” “Every single day, an average of three families in Massachusetts lose a father, mother, brother, sister or child to addiction,” said Congressman Joe Kennedy III. “Without providing the necessary funding, our response to the opioid crisis gripping communities across our country is a half-step at best. While I am encouraged by the bipartisan support for the bills passed in the House this week, any serious policies and programs need real resources behind them to be effective. I’m hopeful both sides of the aisle in both chambers of Congress can come together in the coming weeks to fully address an increasingly urgent crisis.” “Wherever you live too many folks have felt the impact of heroin and opioid abuse,” Congressman Derek Kilmer said. “This scourge has led to overcrowded jails, overwhelmed medical professionals and emergency responders, and families who simply want to do more to help their loved ones. I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing a bill that invests in programs and professionals that are on the ground helping those struggling with addiction and working to provide lifesaving care.” “Across the Granite State and around the nation, far too many Americans struggling with addiction are unable to find necessary treatment options. Our law enforcement officials do not have the resources they need to fight this epidemic and get these drugs off our streets, and community stakeholders and advocates working to tackle this epidemic need our support to get their jobs done. That’s why I’m proud to support this bill, which will provide over $1 billion dollars to fight the opioid epidemic. We cannot wait to fund these efforts; far too many lives across the nation depend on it,” said Congresswoman Annie Kuster, who is the co-founder of the Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. Earlier this year, President Obama called for action to address this crisis and the need for more resources. The comprehensive Opioid and Heroin Abuse Crisis Investment Act reflects the President’s plan, which calls for $1.16 billion to combat the roots of the current epidemic by providing: • $930 million to support cooperative agreements with States to expand access to medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorders; • $50 million to expand access to substance use treatment providers; • $12.5 million for DEA heroin enforcement; • Studies of real-world medication-assisted treatment; • Advancing safe opioid prescribing guidelines; • Enhancement of prescription drug monitoring programs; and • Treatment for prisoners, Second Chance Act grant program funding, and residential substance abuse treatment programs. This legislation stands in stark contrast to House Republicans’ action on the opioid crisis, which prescribes solutions but offer no support. In a week that has seen votes on bipartisan legislation to authorize drug treatment and prevention programs, House Republicans have blocked efforts to provide any additional funding to combat this epidemic. Without additional resources to support new and existing programs, too many people will continue to face challenges accessing care. The full text of the bill is available here. In addition to the lead sponsors, the bill is cosponsored by: Pete Aguilar, Karen Bass, Don Beyer, Earl Blumenauer, Brendan Boyle, Corrine Brown, Julia Brownley, G.K. Butterfield, Lois Capps, Michael Capuano, Tony Cárdenas, Katherine Clark, Yvette Clarke, William Lacy Clay, Steve Cohen, Gerald Connolly, John Conyers, Joe Courtney, Danny Davis, Peter DeFazio, John Delaney, Rosa DeLauro, Debbie Dingell, Tammy Duckworth, Donna Edwards, Anna Eshoo, Elizabeth Esty, Marcia Fudge, Ruben Gallego, Alan Grayson, Al Green, Gene Green, Luis Gutiérrez, Alcee Hastings, Denny Heck, Michael Honda, Steve Israel, Sheila Jackson Lee, Hakeem Jeffries, Henry “Hank” Johnson, Marcy Kaptur, William Keating, Dan Kildee, Ron Kind, Rick Larsen, John Larson, Brenda Lawrence, Barbara Lee, Sander Levin, John Lewis, Ted Lieu, Dave Loebsack, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Stephen Lynch, Sean Patrick Maloney, Doris Matsui, Betty McCollum, James McGovern, Gregory Meeks, Seth Moulton, Grace Napolitano, Richard Neal, Donald Norcross, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Bill Pascrell, Stacey Plaskett, Mike Quigley, Cedric Richmond, Raul Ruiz, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Tim Ryan, Loretta Sanchez, John Sarbanes, Albio Sires, Jackie Speier, Eric Swalwell, Bennie Thompson, Dina Titus, Paul Tonko, Niki Tsongas, Chris Van Hollen, Juan Vargas, Peter Welch, John Yarmuth.
04.21.2016	Washington, D.C. (April 20, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the Treasury Department’s announcement that Harriet Tubman will be the new face of the $20 bill, and five women and civil rights heroes will be incorporated in future designs of the $10 bill: “It is long past time we do more to honor the contributions of women in American history, especially women of color. I applaud Secretary Lew’s announcement that the redesigned $20 bill will feature Harriet Tubman. I encourage the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve to work with urgency to implement this change. “Placing Harriet Tubman on our U.S. currency is a fitting tribute to a woman who fought to make the values enshrined in our Constitution a reality for all Americans. “Harriet Tubman was called the Moses of her people, and it was a name hard-earned. “Born in Maryland, she escaped slavery and courageously fought for the freedom of other slaves before the Civil War. She continued to battle injustice and inequality until her death. “I am pleased that in addition to making Harriet Tubman the face of the new $20 bill, five different women and civil rights heroes will now be incorporated in future designs of the $10 bill.” Last year, Cummings and Congressman John Katko (R-NY), introduced the bipartisan Harriet Tubman Tribute Act to require the Secretary of the Treasury to place Harriet Tubman’s likeness on a Federal Reserve Note by 2017.
04.20.2016	Washington, D.C. (Apr. 20, 2016)—Today, Reps. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) and Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) led 50 House Members in sending a letter to President Obama urging him to take steps to solidify fair chance hiring policies in the federal government. Fair chance hiring helps level the playing field for those reentering society after incarceration and can include “banning the box,” or prohibiting questions about criminal histories early in the hiring process. “As we move toward National Reentry Week, we write to ask that your Administration take additional action soon to solidify ban the box policies at the federal level,” the Members wrote. Currently, federal law does not prevent federal employers from asking a formerly-incarcerated person about their past crimes at any stage of a job interview. Last May, Cummings, Scott, and more than 70 House Members, led by Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), sent a letter to the President urging him to adopt “ban the box” policies in federal hiring. In November, President Obama announced that he would take action to help level the playing field for formerly-incarcerated individuals seeking employment with the federal government. In today’s letter, the Members urged the President to carry out that action through regulations and extend “ban the box” policies to federal contractors as well. “We urge OPM to ensure that federal agencies fully incorporate the 2012 arrest and conviction enforcement guidance issued by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) into the federal hiring process. The EEOC guidance encourages employers to use a ‘targeted screen’ and individual assessment to prevent the exclusion of qualified applicants or employees with a criminal background and eliminate disparate impact…” they wrote. “As you know, federal contractors employ nearly 25 percent of the nation’s workforce. Your Administration has the opportunity to drive fair chance hiring policies forward by making it clear that companies contracting with the federal government must also implement these policies.” Last September, Cummings led the House introduction of the bipartisan Fair Chance Act, which would require all three branches of the federal government and its prime contractors to wait to ask about the criminal histories of job applicants until they receive a conditional offer of employment. More than 70 million Americans who have criminal histories are faced with the daunting task of securing employment. They face improbable odds in obtaining jobs as a result of arrests or convictions. Studies show that a criminal record reduces the likelihood of a callback or job offer by nearly 50 percent for men. African-American men with criminal records have been 60 percent less likely to receive a callback or job offer than those without records. For individuals trying to turn the page on a difficult chapter in their lives, criminal convictions pose a substantial barrier to employment. The full letter is available here and set forth below. April 20, 2016 President Barack H. Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to commend the unprecedented efforts undertaken by your Administration to support formerly-incarcerated individuals’ successful reentry into society. We also write to ask for your continued leadership on this issue, especially as it relates to “banning the box,” or removing questions about an individual’s criminal history from the early stages of the hiring process. We are grateful for your leadership in supporting individuals reentering their communities. Specifically, we laud the reentry grants awarded by the Department of Education to support the education and successful reintegration of individuals who have been incarcerated. We also applaud the recent announcement by the Department of Housing and Urban Development that when a housing provider imposes a blanket ban on individuals with a criminal history, it has a disparate impact on the basis of race, and is a violation of the Fair Housing Act. On November 2, 2015, we were also pleased to hear you state that you were “taking action to ‘ban the box’ for the most competitive jobs at federal agencies” and that you believed the federal government “should not use criminal history to screen out applicants before we even look at their qualifications.”[1] Since then, you have undertaken an important effort by promoting the Fair Chance Business Pledge, which recognizes private sector employers such as Starbucks, Uber, and Under Armour, for taking steps to eliminate employment barriers for formerly-incarcerated persons. As we move toward National Reentry Week, we write to ask that your Administration take additional action soon to solidify ban the box policies at the federal level. First, as recommended by the Federal Interagency Reentry Council in June 2013, we ask that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) “make the federal government a model employer” by issuing regulations that adopt the ban the box policy.[2] In that endeavor, we urge OPM to ensure that federal agencies fully incorporate the 2012 arrest and conviction enforcement guidance issued by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) into the federal hiring process. The EEOC guidance encourages employers to use a “targeted screen” and individual assessment to prevent the exclusion of qualified applicants or employees with a criminal background and eliminate disparate impact.[3] As you know, as many as one in three Americans have some type of criminal record and each year more than 600,000 inmates are released from federal and state prisons.[4] Another nine million cycle through local jails.[5] These stark numbers underscore the need for programs to help reintegrate individuals who have been incarcerated into their communities. Studies confirm that sustained employment of the formerly incarcerated reduces recidivism, thereby strengthening public safety.[6] Second, we ask you to promote fair chance hiring by taking executive action to extend ban the box policies to federal contractors. To date, twenty-two states and more than 100 localities have taken steps to remove barriers to employment for ex-offenders, including seven states, the District of Columbia, and twelve cities and counties whose policies reach private employers.[7] Additionally, companies like Starbucks, Home Depot, Target, Bed Bath & Beyond, institutions like Johns Hopkins University, and many more entities have led the way in implementing fair chance hiring policies. As you know, federal contractors employ nearly 25 percent of the nation’s workforce.[8] Your Administration has the opportunity to drive fair chance hiring policies forward by making it clear that companies contracting with the federal government must also implement these policies. On November 2, 2015, you also explained that “Congress should pass legislation that builds on today’s announcement.”[9] We agree, and have been working diligently with our colleagues in Congress to advance the Fair Chance Act (H.R. 3470), which would extend ban the box policies to all three branches of the federal government and prime federal contractors. However, without a clear path forward for the legislation, we are respectfully calling upon you to drive these issues forward with executive action. We are grateful for your dedication and attention to reentry issues that have gone unaddressed for so long. We urge you to build on your Administration’s record on fair chance hiring by committing the federal government to do its part to become a “model employer.” Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely,
04.09.2016	Washington, D.C. (April 9, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) announced that Ms. Jini Kim, a Senior at Mt. Hebron High School in Howard county, is the winner of the 2016 congressional Art Competition for the 7th District of Maryland. Ms. Kim’s painting, entitled “Entangled Fantasia,” will be displayed at the U.S. Capitol for one year alongside the works of other young artists from across the country. “I am delighted to showcase the artistic talent of the young people in my district,” Cummings said. “This competition is a wonderful opportunity for students to develop and express their creativity through the arts.” The runner-up for the honor was Ms. Grace Ebacher-Rini, a student at Hereford High School, for her painting, “Portrait of Young Nathan.” Several young artists also received Curator’s Choice Award: • American Visionary Art Museum: Onesha Smith • Baltimore Museum of Art: Xiaoyao “Joyce” Qu • Contemporary Museum of Baltimore: Daisha Bryant • Maryland Art Place: William Fern • Maryland Institute College of Art: Desiree Thaniel • National Great Blacks in Wax Museum: Megan Threatte • Walters Art Museum: Lucy Irwin Initiated by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and sponsored by the Congressional Institute, the Congressional Art Competition recognizes and encourages artistic talent in the nation. To participate, high school students submit entries to their Representative’s office, and each district selects a winning entry, which is then displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. Congressman Cummings (left) stands with winner, Ms. Jini Kim (center).
03.18.2016	Washington, D.C. (March 18, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) announced the winner of his 2015 Congressional App Challenge, Mr. Kevin Zheng. Zheng, a Senior at Glenelg High School, won by creating a game called Save The Chesapeake, to teach users the importance of maintaining the health of the Chesapeake Bay.“This challenge engages students in STEM education by allowing them to create an application on a platform of their choice,” Cummings said. “I was very impressed with Kevin’s demonstration video and his commitment to conserving our natural resources for future generations.” The three judges who helped pick the winner of the challenge were Dr. Jayfus Doswell, Chief Executive Officer of Juxtopia, LLC, Dr. Ali Emdad, Associate Dean of Morgan State University Earl Graves School of Business and Management, and Dr. Robert Gabrys, Director of Education with the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. A video of Mr. Zheng demonstrating his game is available here. Click here to view the 2015 Congressional App Challenge winners from all 50 states.
03.17.2016	Washington, D.C. (March 17, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on Sagamore Development’s master plan to develop Port Covington:“It's hard not to get excited about this kind of large, mixed-use project that promises thousands of jobs for Baltimore residents. I am hopeful that with Plank's vision and Sagamore's expertise, implementation of this project will support Baltimore’s urgent community development priorities and bring much needed infrastructure improvements that will benefit the entire City.”
03.14.2016	Washington, D.C. (March 14, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) introduced a resolution honoring Henrietta Lacks for her contributions to medical research. “There will never be another Henrietta Lacks. This phenomenal woman left a legacy of generosity and humility with her contributions to medicine and her family,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am proud to introduce this resolution today to recognize Mrs. Lacks’ life and acknowledge her remarkable place in history. Her immortal cells have been instrumental to medical breakthroughs ranging from development of the polio vaccine to treatments for HIV/AIDS, leukemia, and Parkinson’s disease, improving the quality of life of millions of people around the world.” “The Lacks family is honored and grateful to pay tribute to our beloved Henrietta Lacks for Women’s History month. She is among the many women who have shaped both history and the future,” said Victoria Baptiste, the great granddaughter of Henrietta Lacks. “She was a medical whisper, unknowingly contributing to science that has made the impossible possible. We are delighted that now her story is being shouted to the world.” Lacks, an African-American woman, died of cervical cancer in 1951. For more than six decades, her cells have been used by medical researchers in some of medicine’s most important breakthroughs, including the development of the polio vaccine, along with treatments for cancer, HIV/AIDS, leukemia and Parkinson’s disease. This evening, at 5:00pm in room 485 of the Russell Senate Office Building, Cummings will deliver remarks at a reception hosted by the Susan G. Komen Foundation honoring Lacks’ contribution to medical research. The resolution is cosponsored by Reps. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (D-FL), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Danny Davis (D-IL), Charlie Rangel (D-NY), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), John Delaney (D-MD), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Linda Sanchez (D-CA), Stacey Plaskett (D-VI), Tim Ryan (D-OH), and Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA). Click here for a PDF of the resolution. The full text follows: Recognizing the Life and Legacy of Henrietta Lacks in Honor of Women's History Month. Whereas, Henrietta Lacks, an African-American woman born on August 1, 1920, in Roanoke, Virginia, was raised by her grandfather on a tobacco farm in Clover, Virginia; Whereas, Henrietta Lacks married David “Day” Lacks in 1941 in Halifax County, Virginia, and later moved to the Baltimore County, Maryland community of Turner Station, to build a life for themselves and their five children: Lawrence, Elsie, David, Deborah and Joseph (Zakariyya); Whereas, in 1951 Henrietta Lacks at the age of 31 was diagnosed with cervical cancer, and despite receiving painful radium treatments, passed away on October 4, 1951; Whereas, medical researchers took samples of Henrietta Lacks’ tumor during her treatment and the HeLa cell line from her tumor proved remarkably resilient; Whereas, Henrietta Lacks died eight months after her cancer diagnosis, leaving behind her children, husband and her “immortal cells” that would change the world; Whereas, HeLa cells were the first immortal line of human cells, doubling every 24 hours, dividing and replenishing indefinitely in a laboratory, and successfully growing outside of the human body for longer than 36 hours; Whereas, Henrietta Lacks’ cells were unique, growing by the millions, commercialized and distributed worldwide to researchers, resulting in advances in medicine; Whereas, the advances made possible by Henrietta Lacks’ cells and the revenues they generated were not known to her family for more than twenty years; Whereas, an estimated 50 million metric tons of HeLa cells have been distributed around the world to become the subject of more than 74,000 studies; Whereas, Henrietta Lacks' prolific cells continue to grow and contribute to remarkable advances in medicine, including the development of the polio vaccine, as well as drugs for treating the effects of cancer, HIV/AIDS, hemophilia, leukemia, and Parkinson's disease; Whereas, Henrietta Lacks’ cells have been used in research that has contributed to our understanding of the effects of radiation and zero gravity on human cells; Whereas, Henrietta Lacks’ immortal cells have informed research on chromosomal conditions, cancer, gene mapping, and precision medicine; Whereas, Henrietta Lacks’ legacy has been recognized around the world through memorials, conferences, museum exhibitions, libraries, print and visual media; Whereas, Henrietta Lacks and her family’s experience is fundamental to modern bioethics policies and informed consent laws that benefit patients nationwide by building patient trust and protecting research participants; Whereas, the Lacks family entered a groundbreaking, HeLa Genome Data Use Agreement in 2013 with the medical, scientific, and bioethics communities, giving them a role in regulating the HeLa genome sequences and discoveries; Whereas, Women’s History Month is celebrated in March to pay tribute to the many contributions women have made to the American experience; Whereas, Henrietta Lacks and her immortal cells have made a significant contribution to global health, scientific research, quality of life, and patient rights; Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives during Women’s History month: (1) celebrates the life of Henrietta Lacks, an African-American woman who unknowingly changed the face of medical science, contributing to lasting, worldwide improvements in health; (2) honors Henrietta Lacks as a hero of modern medicine for her contributions to the medical discoveries resulting from her HeLa cells, which helped make possible some of the most important medical advances of the last century; and (3) recognizes Henrietta Lacks’ legacy, which has contributed to developments in bioethics and patient rights that benefit all Americans.
03.02.2016	Washington, D.C. (March 2, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement recognizing Women’s History Month:“I feel a tremendous sense of gratitude when I think of the women who I’ve been blessed to have in my life, and the courageous women who have worked to make America more equal for all Americans“I feel it when I think of women like my friend and colleague, Senator Barbara Mikulski—the longest-serving woman in the history of the United States Congress. For nearly four decades, Senator Mikulski has given a voice to not only women, but many underrepresented communities in Maryland and nationwide. “This Women’s History Month, and every month, we must continue fighting to improve the lives of women, because when women succeed, America succeeds. That includes working to close the pay gap, because all American women deserve equal pay for equal work; it includes fighting for affordable childcare so women no longer have to opt out of the workforce because daycare costs more than rent; and it includes stopping the continuous attacks on women’s health.“The only way America can reach its full potential is by advancing policies that promote women’s full participation in our workforce and bring opportunity to all Americans.”
02.24.2016	Washington, D.C. (February 24, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement nominating Baltimore’s Enoch Pratt Free Library Chief Executive Officer Dr. Carla D. Hayden for Librarian of Congress. If confirmed by the U.S. Senate, she would be the first African American and first woman to lead the Library of Congress: “I can think of no better public servant for the position of Librarian of Congress than Dr. Carla Hayden. For more than 20 years, Dr. Hayden has served as Chief Executive Officer of the Enoch Pratt Free Library in Baltimore, one of the oldest free public library systems in the United States. “Under her leadership, the Pratt Library has transformed from an aging system into a world class, 21st century institution of information and technology. “A champion for bridging the digital divide, Dr. Hayden has developed library branches throughout Baltimore City where communities can come together to learn, share information and exchange ideas. “Dr. Hayden possesses the experience and character to uphold the rich traditions of the Library of Congress, while bringing innovation and creative leadership to one of our nation’s treasures, and I support her historic, groundbreaking nomination.”
02.24.2016	Washington, D.C. (Feb. 23, 2015) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) joined Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA), and 31 Members of Congress to introduce legislation in the House to provide a 3.9% raise to federal workers plus 1.4% in lost locality pay. The Federal Adjustment of Income Rates Act (FAIR Act) would provide the pay hike to all federal employees, including locality pay, in 2017. Original cosponsors of the bill are: Rep. Steny H. Hoyer, Rep. Donald S. Beyer Jr., Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton, Rep. Chris Van Hollen, Rep. Donna F. Edwards, Rep. John P. Sarbanes, Rep. John K. Delaney, Rep. Stephen F. Lynch, Rep. James P. McGovern, Rep. Raul M. Grijalva, Rep. Ben Ray Lujan, Rep. Matt Cartwright, Rep. Keith Ellison, Rep. Mark Takano, Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Rep. Jan Schakowsky, Rep. Madeleine Bordallo, Rep. Ed Perlmutter, Rep. Marcy Kaptur, Rep. Katherine Clark, Rep. Brendan F. Boyle, Rep. Joyce Beatty, Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney, Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger, Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Rep. Jerrold Nalder, Rep. Bill Keating, Rep. Gregory Meeks, Rep. Brenda Lawrence, Rep. John Yarmuth, Rep. Danny Davis. Connolly introduced similar legislation last year that would have provided federal employees a 3.8% pay increase for fiscal year 2016. The updated FAIR Act would ensure that federal employees serving across the country, in all 50 States and on behalf of constituents residing in every congressional district, earn a pay increase of 3.9%, plus a competitive locality pay adjustment of 1.4%, for fiscal year 2017. “Over the last six years, federal workers have seen a cumulative pay increase of just 3.3 percent,” said Congressman Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. “President Obama’s suggested increase of 1.6 percent is good, but it is not enough. This bill will ensure that our federal workers are fairly compensated, and it will help our government recruit and retain a highly-skilled workforce.” “No other group has been asked to sacrifice more than our federal workforce, who have endured years of pay freezes, increased retirement contributions, no locality pay, sequestration cuts, and a government shutdown,” said Congressman Gerald E. Connolly. “This bill is a down payment on trying to help restore some of the losses that have been incurred by our dedicated federal employees, and I hope demonstrates we value their public service.” “I am proud to represent 62,000 federal workers who reside in Maryland’s Fifth District,” said Congressman Steny H. Hoyer. “Our federal employees have faced furloughs and uncertainty because of a government shutdown, and they have contributed $138 billion toward deficit reduction. These employees deserve to be compensated fairly for the critical work they perform every day for our country. They deserve our gratitude, and I will continue to work on their behalf to make sure federal employees get the pay and benefits they have earned.” “Federal employees have been the perennial punching bag for many of our colleagues despite the high quality of their work under unprecedented circumstances,” said Congresswoman Norton. “Surely, it must be acknowledged that they have earned a pay raise as they have taken on much more work throughout these sequester years. Years of cuts, which have even eaten into pensions, have left federal employees far behind their private sector counterparts.” “The men and women of our federal workforce deserve a robust pay increase after years of eroding salaries,” stated Congressman Bobby Scott. “I commend Congressman Connolly for his leadership on this issue, and I look forward to working with him and others to make sure our federal employees know that we value their work and dedication to our nation and its citizens.” “Wages for civil servants lag far behind the private sector, and federal workers have made significant sacrifices in recent years,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “We must pay our federal workers a competitive wage to attract and retain top talent to carry out essential government services. This bill will honor our civil servants’ commitment to public service by working toward providing them a fair pay raise.” “The introduction of this legislation signifies an effort to push for a significant and real pay increase for our federal workers in calendar year 2017 that’s in sync with the 21st Century economy. I will continue to stand with our federal workforce, our retirees, and the federal employee unions who remain committed every day to serving and protecting the American public,” said Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards. “Americans want the best and brightest to serve our country,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “But if Republicans in Congress continue to denigrate public service and reduce the pay and benefits of our federal workers, then we will have a difficult time retaining and attracting top-talent to the public sector. That’s why I’m proud to co-sponsor the FAIR Act, which would reverse the recent indiscriminate and dangerous pay cuts to our federal workforce.” “America’s federal employees keep our country safe, advance new frontiers in science and research, and serve taxpayers each day,” said Congressman John K. Delaney. “America doesn’t work without a high-performing federal workforce and that starts with making sure their pay is competitive and appropriate. I am proud to defend federal workers against misguided attacks and proud to stand with my colleagues in supporting a pay raise for federal employees.” “Our federal workers endured years of pay freezes, furloughs, retirement benefit cuts, and a government shutdown,” said Congressman Beyer. “I am proud to again cosponsor this legislation to build on that success and commit to paying our civil servants for their vital contributions to millions of American families.” The FAIR Act has been endorsed by the Federal-Postal Coalition, comprised of 31 national organizations representing 5 million federal and postal workers and retirees: American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE); American Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees (AFSCME); American Foreign Service Association (AFSA); American Postal Workers Union (APWU); FAA Managers Association (FAAMA); Federal Managers Association (FMA); Federally Employed Women (FEW); International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF); International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW); International Federation of Professional & Technical Engineers (IFPTE); Laborers’ International Union of North America (LIUNA); National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association (NARFE); National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA); National Association of Assistant United States Attorneys (NAAUSA); National Association of Federal Veterinarians (NAFV); National Association of Government Employees (NAGE); National Association of Letter Carriers (NALC); National Association of Postal Supervisors (NAPS); National Association of Postmasters of the U.S.(NAPUS); National Council of Social Security Management Associations (NCSSMA); National Federation of Federal Employees (NFFE); National League of Postmasters (NLP); National Postal Mail Handlers Union (NPMHU); National Rural Letter Carriers’ Association (NRCLA); National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU); National Weather Service Employees Organization (NWSEO); Organization of Professional Employees of the USDA (OPEDA); Patent Office Professional Association (POPA); Professional Aviation Safety Specialists (PASS); Professional Managers Association (PMA); Senior Executives Association (SEA) A PDF of the legislation can be found here.
02.23.2016	Washington D.C. (Feb. 23, 2015) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin and U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Chris Van Hollen, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, Andy Harris and John Delaney to send a letter to President Obama expressed their strong support for Governor Larry Hogan’s request for a federal Disaster Declaration for Maryland being impacted by severe winter weather. “We are writing to express our shared support for Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the declaration of a major disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of a severe winter snowstorm which impacted our State beginning January 22, 2016. Given the massive impact that this storm had on the State’s resources, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve the provision of supplementary Federal assistance,” wrote members of the Delegation. The Disaster Declaration would make federal funding available to the State and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe winter storms and snowstorms in all Maryland counties and the City of Baltimore. As a result of the snowstorms, Maryland was in a state of emergency from January 22, 2016 to January 29, 2016 and the Maryland National Guard was called into service. The storm caused an estimated $34 million in damage across Maryland. The text of the delegation's letter of support is as follows: February 23, 2016 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our shared support for Governor Larry Hogan’s request for the declaration of a major disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of a severe winter snowstorm which impacted our State beginning January 22, 2016. Given the massive impact that this storm had on the State’s resources, we respectfully request that you expeditiously approve the provision of supplementary Federal assistance. Maryland suffered significant blizzard conditions throughout the storm, overwhelming the State’s capabilities to deal with its aftermath. Governor Hogan took appropriate action under Maryland law, declaring a State of Emergency for all Maryland counties and the City of Baltimore, calling the National Guard into State Service, and opening the State Emergency Operations Center for the duration of the event. Our State experienced record snowfalls, wind gusts as high as 55 MPH creating blizzard conditions, and coastal and tidal flooding. The Maryland Emergency Management Agency (MEMA), along with local jurisdictions and FEMA, conducted an extensive impact assessment February 2 – February 17. They collectively found that the event was of such severity and magnitude that effective response and recovery is beyond the capabilities of the State and affected local governments, and requires supplementary Federal assistance. Maryland has made extensive efforts to respond to this emergency. Governor Hogan, working with FEMA, has estimated the total cost to exceed $34 million. An expedited declaration of a disaster is necessary to help provide the resources needed by our State. We appreciate your consideration of Maryland’s request. Sincerely,
02.17.2016	Baltimore, MD (February 16, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement in response to Republicans’ threat to block a Supreme Court nomination by President Obama: “I am appalled that Republicans are even suggesting that the President should forgo his constitutional duty to put forth a nominee to replace Justice Scalia. I see it as another attempt by Republicans to nullify the votes of citizens. We’ve seen it in their efforts to suppress the vote; we’ve seen it in Flint, Michigan, where they took over the local government and put the lives of its residents at risk; and we are seeing it now as they threaten to block the President from doing his job with eleven months left in his term. I urge President Obama to ignore the Republicans’ partisan pettiness and submit a nominee at the earliest possible moment.”
02.13.2016	Washington, D.C. (February 13, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the death of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia: “My thoughts and prayers are with Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia's family and loved ones. Justice Scalia had a long, distinguished career and I thank him for his service to our nation.”
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. (February 2, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement recognizing Black History Month: “Every February our nation celebrates Black History Month by honoring the rich contributions that African Americans—the famous and the not so famous—have made to America. “We honor the contributions of African Americans like Baltimore’s Dr. Keiffer Mitchell, Sr., who dedicated his life to ensure that his patients in West Baltimore received care that they would not have received elsewhere; and we honor the contributions of African Americans like Julian Bond, who dedicated his life to ensuring fairness and equality for all Americans. “We honor the contributions being made today by activists in the Movement for Black Lives, who have brought attention to the vast inequities in our nation’s criminal justice system while reminding our nation that Black Lives Matter. “There are some in America who want to move our country backward, but when I think about the legacy of Dr. Mitchell, Mr. Bond and countless other African Americans, it is a reminder that we must protect our progress for ourselves and for generations yet unborn.”
01.18.2016	Washington, D.C. (January 18, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement honoring the legacy of civil rights icon Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.: “Today, we honor the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. We look back at the man whose calling led him to tirelessly promote political, economic and social justice for all Americans. “However, to truly honor Dr. King’s legacy, we must also look forward. We must dream of the world as it could be—fairer, more just and more equal—as Dr. King did. We must also work every day to make that dream a reality. “So on this Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, I urge all my fellow Americans to take time to remember the great legacy of Dr. King, and to recommit ourselves to building a society that lives up to Dr. King’s dream for us all.”
01.12.2016	Washington, D.C. (January 12, 2016)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement applauding President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Tonight President Obama laid out his vision for our country, not just for his final year in the White House, but for generations yet unborn. I have been very proud of his first seven years in office, and although I will miss having him as my President, I look forward to the progress we can accomplish together over the next year. “Since the President took office in 2009, the unemployment rate has been cut in half—from more than 10 percent to 5 percent—and our economy has added more than 8 million jobs. That is a phenomenal achievement that has helped our nation slowly but surely recover from the Great Recession. I was very pleased to hear the President explain how we can build on that progress to increase opportunity for all Americans and create brighter futures for our children—and our children’s children. “The Affordable Care Act has been a critical component in improving the lives of the American people. This landmark achievement now provides health insurance to roughly 22 million individuals who now have peace of mind knowing that they can get the care they need. Our challenge now is to curb the rising costs of prescription drugs to ensure all Americans have access to the life-saving medications they need. “Finally, I was especially encouraged to hear the President address the need for criminal justice reform. Events in Ferguson, Staten Island, Chicago, and my home of Baltimore have forced our nation to take a long, hard look at racial disparities in police encounters and practices that continue to lead to the tragic deaths of unarmed African Americans. We must seize on the bipartisan consensus in Congress—and nationwide. For America to live up to its noble ideals, we must have a fairer, more just criminal justice system. “I thank the President for his dedicated service to our country, for his many accomplishments in his first seven years as president, and for his incredible vision for moving our nation forward.”
01.12.2016	Washington, D.C. (January 12, 2016) — Today, the House Judiciary Committee unanimously approved the bipartisan Second Chance Reauthorization Act of 2015—legislation led by Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner and co-sponsored by Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) and others. The bill reauthorizes the Second Chance Act Grant Program, which supports non-profit organizations and state and local governments doing reentry work nationwide. The bill builds on the success of the original Second Chance Act of 2008 and continues to authorize funding to evaluate and improve reentry programming, including academic and vocational education for incarcerated individuals.“All too often, a criminal record in this country is like a life sentence,” said Congressman Cummings. “I am thrilled that the House Judiciary Committee has approved this bill. Second Chance Act grants support the non-profits and state and local governments doing crucial work on the ground helping formerly-incarcerated individuals become productive, contributing members of their communities. Successful reentry efforts simply would not be possible without them, and we must do all we can to support their work.” Each year, more than 700,000 men, women, and youth returning home from prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities have benefited from Second Chance Act grants providing career training, mentoring, family-based substance abuse treatment, and other evidence-based reentry programs. Additionally, a report from the National Reentry Resource Center highlights how numerous states have experienced drastic reductions in statewide recidivism rates as a result of robust reentry services made possible in part through Second Chance Act funding. Cummings is a leader in Congress’s bipartisan effort to fix America’s criminal justice system and reduce recidivism. Last week, Cummings and Rep. Sensenbrenner hosted a bipartisan documentary screening and discussion about reentry. Cummings is also the lead House sponsor of the bipartisan, bicameral Fair Chance Act—legislation to bring “ban the box” policies to the federal government. In December, Cummings addressed hundreds of attendees at the Council of State Governments Justice Center’s 2015 Second Chance Act Conference, urging them to continue their important work to help formerly-incarcerated individuals rebuild their lives.
01.05.2016	Washington, D.C. (January 5, 2016) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement lauding President Obama’s announcement of executive actions to expand criminal background checks to prevent gun violence in America: “Several years ago, I lost my nephew to gun violence, so I know the terrible toll it takes on families. I applaud President Obama for taking action that will make our communities safer, so fewer families will have to live with the pain of losing a loved one to gun violence. Every year, our country loses more than 30,000 people to gun violence. Last year, more than 900 people were injured by people using guns in Baltimore alone, and more than 300 of them died. It is time for Congress to follow the President’s lead and act on legislation to ensure that guns do not end up in the hands of criminals, domestic abusers, and individuals with severe mental illnesses.” The executive actions announced by the President today will make significant progress in the ongoing struggle to curb gun violence: • Strengthening background checks nationwide: The President’s executive actions provide new guidance on existing federal laws, clarifying that any individual in the business of selling firearms must obtain a license through the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and therefore conduct background checks on prospective gun purchasers. These actions also include new measures and resources to make the background check system more efficient and effective. • Protecting communities with bolstered enforcement: The executive actions take new steps to promote smart and effective enforcement– including a proposed increase in funding for more ATF agents, greater resources for tracking illegal online firearms trafficking and strengthened domestic violence outreach efforts. • Improving mental health services: The President is proposing increased investment to expand access to mental health care. Further, the executive actions remove barriers that prevent the reporting of relevant mental health information to the background check system. • Driving new research into gun safety: The executive actions direct the Departments of Defense, Justice and Homeland Security to conduct or sponsor research into new technology to make firearms safer. The President’s executive actions come after the Republican Congress has repeatedly refused to allow votes on commonsense, bipartisan gun violence prevention legislation – including acting on seven separate occasions to block a vote on a Republican Congressman’s proposal to close the outrageous terror gun loophole that allows suspected terrorists to buy deadly weapons across America. In March 2015, a bipartisan coalition of U.S. House Members introduced H.R. 1217 to strengthen background checks nationwide. The legislation, authored by Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA) and Rep. Peter King (R-NY), expands the existing background check system to cover all commercial firearm sales, including those at gun shows, over the internet or in classified ads while providing reasonable exceptions for family and friend transfers. Under the legislation, the current background check system would be expanded to require comprehensive, enforceable and life-saving background checks on all commercial gun sales. Studies show that background checks stop more than 170 felons, some 50 domestic abusers, and nearly 20 fugitives from buying a gun each day they are in use. However, no system is in place to prevent these same prohibited purchasers from buying identical guns at a gun show, over the internet, or through a newspaper ad with no questions asked – because background checks are not required for these kinds of sales. The King-Thompson bill closes these outrageous, dangerous loopholes.
12.21.2015	Washington, D.C. (December 21, 2015) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) sent a letter to Maryland Governor Larry Hogan to urge the Governor to “leave no stone unturned” in his Administration’s review of the barriers formerly-incarcerated Maryland residents face when trying to reenter society. “All too often, a criminal record is like a life sentence,” Cummings wrote. “For formerly-incarcerated individuals trying to rebuild their lives, a criminal record can be a barrier to accessing employment, housing, professional licensure, transportation, and the ballot box.” In December 2014, the Vera Institute of Justice released a report, stating that: “Research shows that recidivism is reduced and communities are made safer not by rendering the millions of people with criminal records second class citizens, but by supporting their transition and reintegration into the community.” In Maryland, there are over 1,000 provisions that create legal barriers for those with criminal records, according to the American Bar Association’s National Inventory of Collateral Consequences of Conviction. These consequences prevent many Maryland residents from voting, gaining employment, starting a business or obtaining student loans. Cummings urged the working group to thoroughly analyze all of Maryland’s regulations and laws that create these barriers, writing, “I encourage the group to leave no stone unturned in determining where and how these policies can be safely modified so that those with criminal records can fully contribute to their communities. Maryland can no longer afford to tolerate unnecessary obstacles for so many of its citizens seeking to move beyond their pasts.” Cummings is a leader in Congress’s bipartisan push to reform our nation’s criminal justice system and remove barriers to reentry. He is the lead House sponsor of the bipartisan, bicameral Fair Chance Act, which would bring fair chance hiring policies to the federal government by preventing agencies and prime federal contractors from asking about applicants’ criminal histories until the end of the hiring process. He is also an original cosponsor of the Second Chance Reauthorization Act, which provides grants to organizations doing reentry work in their communities; the Democracy Restoration Act, which would prohibit states from taking away federal voting rights due to criminal histories; and the REDEEM Act, which would provide a process for the sealing or expungement of some criminal records and loosen restrictions on benefits for ex-drug offenders. Click here to view the letter, the full text follows: December 21, 2015 The Honorable Larry Hogan Governor of Maryland 100 State Circle Annapolis, MD 21401 Dear Governor Hogan: I am writing to express my strong support for state-level efforts to reduce any negative and unnecessary collateral consequences associated with criminal records in Maryland. I was disappointed earlier this year when I learned that you vetoed legislation (HB 980) passed by the General Assembly of Maryland that would have allowed formerly-incarcerated Maryland citizens to vote as soon as they return to our communities. In order for those who have done their time to truly become contributing members of our society, we must secure their right to be active participants in our democracy. However, I have been encouraged to learn that you have convened a multi-agency working group to examine and recommend changes to regulations and laws that result in unnecessary collateral consequences for individuals with criminal records. I commend you for this effort, and look forward to monitoring its progress. All too often, a criminal record is like a life sentence. For formerly-incarcerated individuals trying to rebuild their lives, a criminal record can be a barrier to accessing employment, housing, professional licensure, transportation, and the ballot box. These collateral consequences can make it harder for those with criminal records to become contributing members of their communities, ultimately increasing their risk of recidivism. As the Vera Institute of Justice concluded in a report from December 2014: “Research shows that recidivism is reduced and communities are made safer not by rendering the millions of people with criminal records second class citizens, but by supporting their transition and reintegration into the community.” In November, President Barack Obama made a similar announcement about examining rules at the federal level that could be changed to help level the playing field for the formerly incarcerated seeking employment: The problem we’re trying to solve here is giving people a foundation through which they can then become productive citizens . . . The goal is to prevent crime. The goal is to make sure that folks are fairly punished when they break the law. But the ultimate goal is to make sure that folks are law-abiding, self-sufficient, good citizens. And everything we do should be designed towards that goal. And if we’re doing a good job there, then crime will go down and it will stay down. In addition to urging President Obama to carry out this work, I have introduced the Fair Chance Act (H.R. 3470), which would bring fair chance hiring policies to the federal level by preventing the federal government and prime federal contractors from asking about applicants’ criminal histories until the end of the hiring process. I have also supported bills that work to break down barriers facing those with criminal records, including the Second Chance Reauthorization Act (H.R. 3406), which provides grants to organizations doing reentry work in their communities; the Democracy Restoration Act (H.R. 1459), which would prohibit states from taking away federal voting rights due to criminal histories; and the REDEEM Act (H.R. 1672), which would provide a process for the sealing or expungement of some criminal records and loosen restrictions on benefits for ex-drug offenders. According to the American Bar Association’s National Inventory of the Collateral Consequences of Conviction, Maryland has at least 1,000 provisions that create “legal sanctions and restrictions imposed upon people because of their criminal record.” I encourage the group to leave no stone unturned in determining where and how these policies can be safely modified so that those with criminal records can fully contribute to their communities. Maryland can no longer afford to tolerate unnecessary obstacles for so many of its citizens seeking to move beyond their pasts. I am proud that Maryland has been a leader as one of the 19 states across the country that have taken steps to remove barriers to employment for qualified workers with criminal records. I look forward to learning about the working group’s efforts and its recommendations for the State of Maryland, and I plan to monitor its progress closely. Thank you again for your attention to this very important initiative. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. (December 16, 2015) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the mistrial declared today by Judge Barry G. Williams in State of Maryland v. William Porter: “It is my understanding that the jury in Officer Porter’s trial was deadlocked – unable to reach a unanimous verdict of either guilt or innocence on all four charges. This is why Judge Barry G. Williams declared a mistrial. “I have also been informed that the Baltimore City State’s Attorney’s Office intends to retry Officer Porter. There will also be the trials of the other officers who have been charged. “I know that many of my neighbors have been following this trial closely, and many may be disappointed by today’s outcome. Each of us will continue to struggle with the very raw, very real emotions the death of Mr. Freddie Gray invokes. “I commend Baltimore City State’s Attorney Marilyn Mosby in her efforts to pursue justice; the jurors for faithfully carrying out their civic duty; and all who have worked to ensure full and fair trials for each defendant involved. “With the eyes of the world on Baltimore City, we must ensure that any protests that take place are peaceful, and we must ensure that the process of healing our community continues. We must continue to channel our emotions into strong, positive change, so that, as a city, we truly see our young men of color before it is too late. “This is the road to more equal justice in our community.”
12.14.2015	Washington, D.C. (December 14, 2015) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) urged President of the Maryland Senate Thomas V. Mike Miller, Jr. and Maryland House Speaker Michael E. Busch to support universal voter registration legislation that has been pre-filed for the 2016 legislation session. In a letter to the Democratic leaders, Cummings wrote, “I write today to express my strong support for the creation of a Universal Voter Registration program that would automatically add to state voting rolls all Maryland residents who are eligible to vote.” Last week, State Senator Roger P. Manno (D-Montgomery) pre-filed legislation to implement Universal Voter Registration in Maryland. If passed, Maryland would be only the third state to adopt the policy. Cummings continued, “I also believe that Maryland should seize every opportunity to be a national leader in eliminating all impediments that stand between eligible citizens and the voting booth.” The Congressman noted that any Universal Voter Registration program must use data from several state sources, not just the Motor Vehicle Administration (MVA) in order to identify citizens eligible to vote. More than 9 percent of U.S. households—and 30 percent of Baltimore households—do not own a vehicle. “Many Maryland residents who do not own cars have never obtained a driver’s license and limiting a Universal Voter Registration program to the use of data collected by the MVA would exclude these individuals from the voter rolls,” Cummings wrote. Click here to view the letter, the full text follows: December 14, 2015 The Honorable Thomas V. Mike Miller, Jr. President of the Maryland Senate State House, H-107 Annapolis, MD 21401 The Honorable Michael E. Busch Maryland House Speaker State House, H-101 Annapolis, MD 21401 Dear President Miller and Speaker Busch: I write today to express my strong support for the creation of a Universal Voter Registration program that would automatically add to state voting rolls all Maryland residents who are eligible to vote. In a speech he gave earlier this year in Selma, Alabama, to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of Bloody Sunday, then-Attorney General Eric Holder warned that: It has been clear in recent years that fair and free access to the franchise is still, in some areas, under siege. Shortly after the historic election of President Obama in 2008, numerous states and jurisdictions attempted to impose rules and laws that had the effect of restricting Americans’ opportunities to vote—particularly, and disproportionately, communities of color. Numerous studies have documented the measures states have adopted to restrict citizens’ – particularly low-income and minority citizens’ – access to the voting booth. For example, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, as of this month, 36 states had adopted measures requiring residents to show a proof of identification at the polls, and these laws were in force in 32 states. Last year, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) issued a report concluding that voter identification laws have led to a statistically significant decrease in voter turnout. At the federal level, I support a range of legislation that would strengthen voting rights throughout the nation. For example, I am a cosponsor of the Voter Empowerment Act (H.R. 12), which would amend the Help America Vote Act and the National Voter Registration Act to improve all facets of the voting process. I also believe that Maryland should seize every opportunity to be a national leader in eliminating all impediments that stand between eligible citizens and the voting booth. For that reason, I believe the General Assembly should adopt legislation during the upcoming session that will create a Universal Voter Registration program. Such a program should utilize data from a variety of state sources, not just the Motor Vehicle Administration (MVA), to identify citizens who are eligible to vote. A recent study released by the University of Michigan’s Transportation Research Institute found that in 2012, more than 9% of U.S. households did not have a private vehicle, and in Baltimore, more than 30% of households lacked a vehicle. Many Maryland residents who do not own cars have never obtained a driver’s license and limiting a Universal Voter Registration program to the use of data collected by the MVA would exclude these individuals from the voter rolls. Thank you for your steadfast efforts to ensure that every eligible Maryland resident is able to cast a ballot. Please let me know if there is anything I can do to support the creation of a Universal Voter Registration program in our state. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress
12.10.2015	Washington, D.C. (December 10, 2015) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement condemning U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia’s comments in Fisher v. University of Texas: “Justice Antonin Scalia’s remarks regarding African American students’ ability to perform at elite universities are a disgraceful contemporary example of views that were typical of segregationists in pre-Civil Rights era America. “Justice Scalia’s comments suggest that because some Black students struggle academically at the University of Texas, then all Black students should be tracked to attend schools that are less academically rigorous. “His argument ignores the fact that many students of color do perform well at, and graduate from, the University of Texas every year. His argument begs the question about the many White students who struggle academically at the University of Texas. “If you carry Scalia’s argument to its logical conclusion, then White students should also be stereotyped as a racial group and tracked en mass to a ‘slower track.’ “Scalia’s reasoning is not only illogical, it is dangerous, shortsighted and detrimental for our increasingly diverse nation. “As recent events and an abundance of data show, the United States has not yet overcome the legacy of slavery and segregation that led to the creation of affirmative action in the 1960s. “Affirmative action is a policy that remains as relevant today as it was then. “African Americans and other people of color are taxpayers and deserve to have robust representation at state universities that they help to fund. “It is insufficient and disingenuous for courts to single out race as a disqualifying variable when so many other variables and preferences are deemed acceptable in the university admissions process.”
12.09.2015	Washington, D.C. (December 9, 2015) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings and Senator Ben Cardin (both D-MD) introduced the Witness Security and Protection Grant Program Act of 2015, legislation that directs the U.S. Attorney General to award competitive grants to state and local governments to establish and maintain short-term witness protection programs in cases involving homicides, violent felonies, serious drug offenses, gang related crimes or organized crime. “With the spikes in homicides we’ve been seeing this year in major cities like Baltimore, securing the safe cooperation of witnesses is more crucial now than ever,” Congressman Cummings said. “Without witnesses who feel safe working with police officers, the wheels of justice will come to a screeching halt. This legislation will help state and local governments provide the specific kinds of services needed to protect witnesses and ensure they feel safe enough to testify in court.” “Our criminal justice system is not working effectively when prosecutors are forced to choose between funding costly investigations and protecting witnesses,” said Senator Cardin. “This legislation will help ensure that prosecutors in Baltimore and elsewhere around the country at the state and local levels are equipped with the necessary resources to fight this epidemic that is poisoning our communities. Witnesses want to do the right thing and testify, but they need to know that they and their families are safe from harm.” In January, The Washington Post reported that since 2004, at least 37 people in Washington, D.C. and Maryland have been killed “for cooperating with law enforcement or out of fear that they might [cooperate].” In August, according to the New York Times, over 30 cities were reporting increases in violence from the year prior, and many large U.S. cities were seeing spikes in murders this year, including Baltimore, Maryland; New Orleans, Louisiana; Washington, D.C.; St. Louis, Missouri; and others. According to the Baltimore Sun, there was a total of 211 homicides in Baltimore in 2014, while the city has already suffered more than 300 homicides in 2015. Earlier this year, Rashaw Scott, a Baltimore man whose 16-month-old son was fatally shot, refused to cooperate with the investigation and had to be compelled to testify at the trial, illustrating the problems Baltimore law enforcement and prosecutors face in finding willing witnesses. The Witness Security and Protection Grant Program Act of 2015 would provide $150 million in competitive grants -- $30 million a year for five years -- to state, local and tribal governments to establish witness assistance programs. The bill also requires the Attorney General to collect data and best practices from the grantees and report this information back to Congress, States and other relevant entities. The Attorney General is also directed to ensure that, as practicable, grants are given to an equitable geographical distribution of programs throughout the country. Cummings and Cardin introduced similar legislation in the 113th Congress. Cummings has also led House efforts on the bill for more than a decade.
12.03.2015	Washington, D.C. (Dec. 3, 2015) — Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Senator Elizabeth Warren issued a staff report on the benefits of the child tax credit (CTC) and the earned income tax credit (EITC) for Maryland families. The staff report warns that unless Congress acts, the expiration of these tax credits will push millions of American families nationwide, and thousands in Maryland, into poverty. “Every child deserves an opportunity to grow and flourish, but childhood poverty robs millions of American children of that opportunity,” Cummings said. “If Congress is going to give Wall Street billions of dollars in tax breaks, we have the moral obligation to also make permanent the expanded child tax credit and earned income tax credit, which lift millions of American families out of poverty every year. In Maryland alone, the expiration of these tax credits could push 114,000 children into poverty.” “It is shameful that in 2015, in the richest country on Earth, millions of kids are growing up in abject poverty. ... but we know how to give these children a better start in life,” said Warren. “We hand out tax breaks to big corporations nearly every year, because Washington works great for these big corporations. But millions of working Americans will be plunged into poverty if we don’t extend their tax breaks too. Congress should make tax breaks for working families permanent – and it should expand them – before committing to any package of corporate tax giveaways.” Key findings of the report include: • Tens of thousands of Maryland families and children are at risk of losing tax credits: Statewide, 158,000 families and 315,000 children are at risk of losing tax credits if key provisions in the EITC or CTC expire. The expiration of these tax credits could push 243,000 people – including 114,000 children – into poverty in Maryland alone. • Cuts will cost middle- and low-income families with children the equivalent of months’ worth of groceries, utility bills, or car repairs: If the tax credit provisions expire, the average Maryland family that currently receives the benefit will lose about $1,200 a year. That’s enough for a single mother with two children to buy about nine weeks’ worth of groceries, cover the cost of needed car repairs, or pay about four months’ worth of utility bills. • Cuts will hurt the Maryland economy: Statewide, the expiration of these tax credits would mean a loss of $189 million that would have been spent in local businesses, helping to create jobs and drive economic growth throughout the region. Lost tax credits by region would include: • $162.3 million in the Washington, D.C. metro area • $87.5 million in the Baltimore-Columbia-Towson metro area • $16.4 million in the Salisbury metro area • $9.9 million in the Hagerstown-Martinsburg metro area • $2.7 million in the California-Lexington Park metro area • $3.5 million in the Cumberland metro area • $5.5 million in the non-metro areas of the state • Expanding the Earned Income Tax Credit would help 146,000 Maryland families and individuals, and boost the local economy by another $88.1 million: In addition to preventing the expiration of important tax credits, Congress has the opportunity to go further and expand the EITC for low-income workers. Cummings and Warren issued the report today at a Middle Class Prosperity Project forum titled, “The Effects of Poverty On Children’s Opportunities.” At the forum, Cummings and Warren were joined by several of America’s leading experts on poverty to discuss what it means for children to be poor in America today; the structural, social and economic factors that keep children and families in poverty; the unique and powerful role played by safety net programs in reducing poverty; and the importance of strengthening those programs as our economy recovers from the worst recession in decades. Cummings and Warren were joined at the forum by Sister Simone Campbell, the Executive Director of NETWORK; Kathryn Edin, Bloomberg Distinguished Professor in Sociology and Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and co-author of $2 a Day: The Art of Living on Virtually Nothing in America; and Robert Greenstein, President of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. “We need to transform our economy to prioritize the common good and support our people,” Sister Simone Campbell said. “The Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit need to be made permanent and expanded. We need living wages so that our people have enough to get by...We need Congress to strengthen programs that are designed to help hardworking families and individuals.” “In any given month roughly 1.5 million families with 3 million children were living on cash incomes so low—and in a poverty so deep—that we didn’t even think it existed in America—up 130 percent from just 15 years earlier. ....the ranks of the $2 a day poor show no signs of depleting, despite the strengthening economy,” Kathryn Edin said. “How should we respond to the plight of the $2 a day poor? ... First, give all the opportunity to work. … Second, all parents deserve the opportunity to raise their children in a place of their own. … Third, sometimes work won’t work, and we need a safety net that can truly catch poor families when they fall.” Click here to read the full report for the state of Maryland. Click here to read the reports for all 50 states.
11.17.2015	Washington, D.C. (November 17, 2015) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement in response to Maryland Governor Larry Hogan’s announcement that he is requesting that federal authorities cease the resettlement of Syrian refugees in Maryland: “I could not disagree more with Governor Hogan’s request to cease the resettlement of Syrian refugees in Maryland. Turning our backs on refugees fleeing the same senseless violence we witnessed in Paris is not just heartless, it is a betrayal of America’s values. Preserving the safety of Maryland’s residents and providing refuge for Syrians fleeing violence are not mutually exclusive; we can and must do both.”
11.11.2015	Washington, D.C. (November 11, 2015) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement honoring our nation’s veterans: “Today is a day to honor all of the brave men and women who have risked their lives to protect our nation. This Veterans Day, I encourage all Americans to reach out to veterans and thank them and their families for their sacrifices. “The foundation of America’s military is not ships or missiles; it’s not tanks or jets. The foundation of America’s military is the men and women who voluntarily serve. “I promise to continue fighting to ensure that our veterans receive high-quality care because they have earned our support, and we should be doing everything in our power to meet their needs.”
11.09.2015	Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) joined United States Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Chris Murphy (D-CT), and Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA), along with House Committee on Financial Services Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-CA), House Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA), and 11 other congressional leaders on college accountability sent a bicameral letter urging the Department of Education (ED) to grant immediate, class-wide relief to former Corinthian Colleges students following a recent federal district court ruling that the for-profit college chain broke federal consumer protection laws. On October 27, a federal judge for the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois issued a default judgment against Corinthian Colleges, finding that it violated the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (CFPA) ban on deceptive practices by misrepresenting job prospects and career services available to students to induce them into taking on debt. The company then engaged in predatory collections practices that directly interfered with the educational services for which students were paying. "The law gives the Department broad authority to discharge loans when schools break the law, and we urge you to act to ensure that students receive the relief to which they are entitled under the law," the members of Congress wrote. "(T)he Department should rely on the Northern District of Illinois' judgment as sufficient proof of Corinthian's unfair and deceptive practices, thus warranting a defense to repayment for Corinthian students. This federal court ruling gives the Department a clear basis for implementing full, immediate, class-wide discharge to Corinthian's former students who were the victims of harmful and deceptive practices." In addition to Senators Warren, Murphy, and Murray and Representatives Waters and Scott, the letter was signed by Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Jack Reed (D-RI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Al Franken (D-MN), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), & Edward J. Markey (D-MA), and Representatives Keith Ellison (D-MN), and Janice Hahn (D-CA). A PDF copy of the letter is available here.
10.28.2015	Washington, D.C. (October 28, 2015) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) applauded the Obama Administration for awarding three grants, more than $1 Million in total, to the Baltimore City Health Department, along with another $175,000 grant to fund a pilot of Safe Streets in the Sandtown-Winchester neighborhood. The grants, awarded by the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), will support ongoing community-based initiatives to help fight violence in the City. “I applaud the Department of Justice, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Obama Administration for their continued support of Baltimore,” Congressman Cummings said. “Thanks to the diligence and creativity of city leaders like Health Commissioner Dr. Leana Wen, these grants will broaden our City’s violence prevention efforts and help create a brighter future for our children.” The grants from the Administration are: • $999,564 from the DOJ Office for Victims of Crime to more effectively reach male survivors of violence and their families. During the three-year project period, these partners will convene a planning group to develop a culturally-relevant, trauma-informed curriculum for survivors, establish a standardized and multidisciplinary shooting response protocol, and implement a plan to increase public awareness of the effects of trauma and victimization. • $278,000 from the DOJ National Forum on Youth Violence Prevention to implement strategies and evidence-based programs to reduce youth violence. As a means of addressing school climate issues, the Baltimore City Health Department and the Baltimore Public School System aim to enhance the capacity of schools to successfully implement and sustain the school-wide positive behavioral interventions and support (PBIS) model. • $70,000 from the DOJ Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention to integrate the faith community into activities aimed at the prevention and reduction of youth violence and victimization within and around the Safe Streets Baltimore areas. Specifically, this funding will support a Faith Community Coordinator position to conduct outreach to Baltimore’s diverse faith-based community which serves and surrounds the Safe Streets areas. • $175,000 from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention through HHS to the National Association of County and City Health Officials in order to fund a pilot of Safe Streets in Sandtown-Winchester.
10.27.2015	Washington, D.C. (October 27, 2015) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) spoke (link is external) on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 1090, the Retail Investor Protection Act. The bill would prevent the Department of Labor (DOL) from finalizing the fiduciary rule needed to ensure that investment advisors and brokers place the financial interest of their clients ahead of their own. “…This Act would prevent the Department of Labor from finalizing a rule to establish a fiduciary standard for investment advisors until the Securities and Exchange Commission finalizes a rule first,” Congressman Cummings said. “In essence, the bill before us would prevent the Labor Department from finalizing any rule at all.” In March, Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chairman Mary Jo White said (link is external) it was her “personal view” that the agency should establish its own fiduciary rule, however, the agency still has not proposed a rule. Cummings cited a DOL study (link is external), released in April of this year, that found that Americans could lose more than $430 billion over the next 10 years without the rule. In March, Cummings and Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) hosted a forum—as part of their Middle Class Prosperity Project—that examined the loopholes used by advisors and brokers who profit from selling lousy products to their customers. The bill is opposed by dozens of organizations, including the AFL-CIO, the National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association, the Financial Planning Coalition and the Consumer Federation of America. The video of the Congressman's remarks can be viewed here (link is external). Below are Cummings’s remarks, as prepared for delivery: Thank you, Ranking Member Waters, for yielding me time and for your leadership on this issue. I rise today to oppose H.R. 1090, the so-called “Retail Investor Protection Act” which is anything but a protection for investors. Rather than protecting our constituents’ investments, this Act would prevent the Department of Labor from finalizing a rule to establish a fiduciary standard for investment advisors until the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) finalizes a rule first. In essence, the bill before us would prevent the Labor Department from finalizing any rule at all. The Administration has already indicated it would veto this measure if it passed the Congress. This past March, Senator Warren and I held a forum as part of our Middle Class Prosperity Project to consider the need for a strong fiduciary standard to protect Americans saving for retirement. We heard directly from Americans who had lost tens of thousands of dollars because they did not receive advice that was in their best interests. In some cases, people may not even realize they have placed their trust in advisors who are not fiduciaries and have no obligation to act in their best interest. One study found that Americans saving for retirement lose more than $43 billion on average each year because advisors don’t act in their clients’ best interests. The real solution, as we learned in our forum, is to have a strong Conflict of Interest rule to ensure the advice Americans receive – advice they receive as paying customers – directs their hard-earned retirement savings to investments that will work best for them. This House should not put roadblocks in the way of this common sense reform. I urge Members to oppose H.R. 1090.
10.26.2015	Washington, D.C. (October 26, 2015) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin and Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John P. Sarbanes (all D-Md.) to announce that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will rescind its plan to reduce rent subsidy levels for residents eligible for the federal Housing Choice Voucher Program in the Baltimore-Columbia-Towson region. The proposed change in policy from HUD, part of the agencies’ annual fair market rent update, received a detailed review following a meeting Senator Mikulski convened on Capitol Hill with U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Julian Castro along with members of the Maryland Delegation. “For many of my constituents, these vouchers are the difference between providing a home for their families and homelessness,” Congressman Cummings said. “I applaud HUD for rescinding its plan to cut housing vouchers for thousands of Baltimore residents.” “This is a win for Baltimore families who work hard but need a helping hand to find an affordable place to live,” Senator Mikulski said. “I went to bat so those who rely on housing assistance can afford to stay in their homes and communities. Today’s decision to reverse course on devastating cuts in rental support is a good first step, but HUD most do more to protect access to affordable housing for Baltimore families.” “HUD continues to find ways to support the City of Baltimore by continuing valuable programs designed to raise up our residents and support families who are struggling,” said Senator Cardin, who raised the Baltimore City issue with Secretary Castro during the recent delegation meeting. “I appreciate Secretary Castro for listening to our concerns and responding quickly to the urgent needs of Baltimore’s residents.” “Low-income families in Baltimore City want the same things all of us want for our own families – a safe and stable home environment,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “The announcement from Secretary Julian Castro regarding HUD’s Housing Choice Voucher Program is a critical step in ensuring families can stay in their own homes and continue to contribute to their communities.” “Thousands of Baltimore families rely on the federal Housing Choice Voucher Program,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “I’m thankful that Secretary Castro listened to our concerns and decided to maintain the program at its current levels for our city’s most vulnerable communities.” Under the current system, the HUD-determined limits for rents for Baltimore have been pegged to the 50th percentile of gross rents, based on data from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey. HUD had proposed to reduce the level for Baltimore to 40 percent of gross rents, which would have a negative impact on Baltimore families who rely on rental assistance. HUD has used the 50th percentile for Baltimore since 2010 as part of an effort to help families move away from high-poverty areas. The Housing Choice Voucher Program is the federal government's major program for assisting very low-income families, the elderly, and the disabled to afford decent, safe, and sanitary housing in the private market. Since housing assistance is provided on behalf of the family or individual, participants are able to find their own housing, including single-family homes, townhouses and apartments. Housing choice vouchers are administered locally by public housing agencies (PHAs). The PHAs receive federal funds from HUD to administer the voucher program. In September, Senator Mikulski led a letter to Secretary Castro signed by Senator Cardin and Representatives Cummings, Ruppersberger and Sarbanes calling on the Secretary to restore this critical housing rental assistance for families in Howard County and the Baltimore region. A copy of the letter is available here. (link is external)
10.07.2015	Washington, D.C. (October 7, 2015) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin and Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John P. Sarbanes (all D-MD) to announce that the Department of Housing and Urban Development has agreed to immediately end its plan to cut housing rental assistance for families in Howard County, particularly Columbia, under the federal Housing Choice Voucher Program. The announcement came after a meeting with HUD Secretary Julian Castro organized by Senator Mikulski. This agreement ensures that Howard County families will not be adversely impacted this year as the agency works towards a long-term solution. The proposed change in policy from HUD was included as part of the agencies’ annual fair market rent update. “I am reassured that Columbia’s housing vouchers will not be cut next year,” Congressman Cummings said. “However, families and housing providers deserve the certainty of knowing that the vouchers will not be cut in future years and we will continue to work closely with HUD to ensure that this objective is achieved and that Columbia remains an exceptional community that can be home to families from every walk of life.” “This is a win for all the families who work hard but need a helping hand to find an affordable place to live and a good school for their kids. And it’s a win for a community that has been committed to affordable housing for more than 50 years,” Senator Mikulski said. “I’m so pleased Secretary Castro has heard the concerns of the people and agreed to scrap the proposed cuts to housing rental assistance in Howard County. Families deserve a government on their side. And today they got one.” “The Housing Choice Voucher programs and initiatives like it are critical to promoting affordable housing in socio-economically diverse and opportunity-rich communities,” Senator Cardin said. “I’m glad that Secretary Castro has worked with us to find a solution to ensure that families in Columbia continue to get the assistance they need.” “I am pleased we were able to protect affordable housing for hardworking families in Howard County,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “Secretary Castro came to our meeting ready to work with the delegation to solve problems.” “I am pleased that Senator Mikulski and our congressional delegation responded swiftly to the County’s request and that HUD Secretary Julian Castro has agreed to delay implementation of the proposed guidelines. I am thankful to Senator Mikulski for her leadership and her pledge to remain involved,” said Howard County Executive Allan Kittleman. “As we look at planned growth for the County, our shared goal of providing diverse, integrated communities and affirmatively furthering fair housing remains a priority. I am committed to working together with our state’s congressional delegation and regional partners such as the Baltimore Metropolitan Council and Columbia Association to ensure a permanent sustainable solution is developed.” The Housing Choice Voucher Program is the federal government's major program for assisting very low-income families, the elderly, and the disabled to afford decent, safe, and sanitary housing in the private market. Since housing assistance is provided on behalf of the family or individual, participants are able to find their own housing, including single-family homes, townhouses and apartments. Housing choice vouchers are administered locally by public housing agencies (PHAs). The PHAs receive federal funds from HUD to administer the voucher program. In September, the Members sent a letter to Secretary Castro urging him to restore this critical housing rental assistance for families in Howard County. A copy of the letter is available here.
09.29.2015	Washington, D.C. (September 29, 2015) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) joined Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) to introduce H.R. 3635, the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act, which would secure retroactive pay for all federal employees during a federal government shutdown, regardless of furlough status. Congressman Rob Wittman (R-VA) is the lead Republican cosponsor. "I remind those Members of Congress determined to shut down the government that their political gamesmanship hurts federal workers, including many of my constituents, and the American people they serve. This legislation is the least we can do to help federal employees who are locked out of work through no fault of their own," said Rep. Elijah Cummings (MD-07). “Federal employees have financial obligations just like everyone else. Congress must not jeopardize their financial security yet again,” said Rep. Beyer (VA-08). “This bipartisan legislation ensures that these public servants are made whole if Congress cannot keep our government running.” Federal employee pay is suspended in the event of a funding lapse or government shutdown. Retroactive pay for all “essential” and “non-essential” federal workers must be approved by Congress. “The all-too-common uncertainty that plagues budget discussions in Washington is undermining the important work our federal employees carry out on behalf of their fellow citizens. It is critical to protect these public servants and their families from this uncertainty, and at the same time to bring accountability to the way Congress carries out its business. Long-term vision is necessary for ending this recurring cycle of governing by crisis,” said Rep. Rob Wittman (VA-01). Congressman Beyer’s 8th District and Congressman Wittman’s 1st District in Virginia are home to approximately 120,000 federal employees. The National Treasury Employees Union and the American Federation of Government Employees have each voiced their support for Beyer-Wittman’s Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act. “For the second time in two years, hundreds of thousands of federal employees are facing the possibility of being furloughed without pay or being required to work not knowing when they will get paid,” said NTEU National President Tony Reardon. “NTEU appreciates the work of Rep. Beyer and other sponsors of this bill to mitigate the impact on our members, who don’t deserve to yet again face uncertainty at work, and in their wallets.” AFGE National President J. David Cox, Sr. voiced his support for the legislation, saying: “AFGE thanks Representatives Don Beyer and Rob Wittman for their leadership in introducing the Retroactive Fair Pay Act of 2015. The prospect of another government shutdown is unsettling enough for employees, without the added threat of permanently lost income, falling behind on bills and other adverse financial consequences. This bipartisan legislation takes at least one concern off the table, so employees can focus like they always do on securing our borders, keeping terrorists off of airplanes, and caring for our nation’s heroes.” The bill had 64 bipartisan cosponsors when it was introduced today, including the entire national capitol region delegation. “I’m proud to represent tens of thousands of hardworking and dedicated federal employees in Maryland’s Fifth District who should not be penalized in the event of a government shutdown,” said Rep. Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05). “I hope that Congress will fund the government so that our federal employees who are responsible for the safety and well-being of our nation can continue the many services they perform for all Americans. I am cosponsoring this legislation with my colleagues so that if a shutdown does occur, we can ensure that our federal employees will receive retroactive pay.” “The callous subjection of millions of our nation’s federal workers to near annual fear and uncertainty about federal shutdowns make them first line victims of congressional dysfunction,” Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) said. “Our bill will give all federal workers the peace of mind their hard work has earned that they will receive back pay when the government reopens.” “Federal employees should not be harmed if Congress fails to reach an agreement to avoid a government shutdown,” stated Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-03). “I commend Congressman Beyer and Congressman Wittman for working together to give federal employees some peace of mind that they will be retroactively paid if there is a shutdown.” "Federal employees should not bear the brunt of Congress' inability to pass a budget," said Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02). “Another government shutdown would be a shameful and fruitless endeavor. But if partisan lawmakers insist on holding the country hostage to their ideological agenda, then the least we can do is ensure our dedicated public servants don’t pay the price for Congress’ dysfunction,” said Rep. Chris Van Hollen (MD-08). “While we have seemingly averted this latest crisis, we need to ensure that when the next manufactured threat of a shutdown occurs, our federal workers remain protected,” said Rep. John Sarbanes (MD-03). “We must prevent partisan politics from harming the financial security of hardworking federal employees and their families.” “The government shutdown in 2013 cost our economy $24 billion and 120,000 private-sector jobs,” Rep. Donna Edwards (MD-04) said. “It is unconscionable that some would be willing to repeat such a costly mistake, but we are on the brink once again. It is time to move past partisanship and ideology, and instead work to keep 128,000 Maryland federal employees on the job. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the ‘Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act,’ and to work with my colleagues to ensure that Maryland’s federal employees, and millions more across the country, receive the pay they deserve.” “I am proud to represent thousands of public servants, yet those pushing Congress toward another reckless government shutdown fail to recognize that the vast majority of federal employees actually live outside of this region in their own home states. These are middle class Americans providing vital services on behalf of our neighbors each and every day. Their work should be celebrated and, yes, fairly compensated,” said Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11). “Our colleagues often say government should be run more like a business, yet they once again are on the verge of allowing narrow partisanship to cleave a self-inflicted wound on our economy.” “Federal workers should not be burdened by Washington’s dysfunction,” said Rep. Scott Rigell (VA-02). “We need to make sure these hard working men and women are made whole if there is an unfortunate government shutdown.” “Hard-working federal employees shouldn’t pay the price for partisan dysfunction in Washington,” said Rep. John Delaney (MD-06). “I’m proud to stand with federal workers and their families in cosponsoring legislation to ensure that they do not suffer needless financial hardship because extremists in Congress cause a shutdown. Maryland is home to over 100,000 federal employees, men and women who make our country safer, more innovative and stronger. It is outrageous that my constituents are facing furloughs because a loud few are pursuing a partisan agenda.” “I am working hard with my colleagues to keep the government open because federal employees and contractors should not be used as a political football by either side for partisan gain. We are a nation that faces national security and homeland security threats. Federal employees, including FBI agents are working around the clock tracking down terrorists, in addition to Central Intelligence Agency, Department of Defense, and National Security Agency analysts who are monitoring incoming intelligence and are on the frontlines keeping us safe. These dedicated employees, as well as the rest of our federal workforce such as researchers who are working on medical breakthroughs at NIH and VA doctors and nurses who treat our wounded warriors need to know that their government will honor its commitment to these workers and their families. As we move toward October 1st, I will continue to talk and work with my colleagues to make sure the government remains open,” said Rep. Barbara Comstock (VA-10).
09.25.2015	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin and Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John P. Sarbanes (all D-Md.) in sending a letter to Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Julian Castro calling on the agency to immediately restore housing rental assistance for families in Howard and Baltimore Counties, particularly Columbia, as well as the City of Baltimore under the federal Housing Choice Voucher Program. The proposed change in policy from HUD is included as part of the agencies’ annual fair market rent update. “We urge you to immediately restore the rental assistance for Howard and Baltimore Counties and the City of Baltimore under the Housing Choice Voucher Program,” the delegation wrote. “The proposed reductions to these housing subsidies will uproot families from their neighborhoods and children from their schools.” The Housing Choice Voucher Program is the federal government's major program for assisting very low-income families, the elderly, and the disabled to afford decent, safe, and sanitary housing in the private market. Since housing assistance is provided on behalf of the family or individual, participants are able to find their own housing, including single-family homes, townhouses and apartments. Housing choice vouchers are administered locally by public housing agencies (PHAs). The PHAs receive federal funds from HUD to administer the voucher program. The letter to Secretary of Housing & Urban Development Castro follows: September 25, 2015 The Honorable Julian Castro Secretary U.S. Department of Housing & Urban Development 451 7th St SW Washington, DC 20410 Dear Secretary Castro: We urge you to immediately restore the rental assistance for Howard and Baltimore Counties and the City of Baltimore under the Housing Choice Voucher Program. The proposed reductions to these housing subsidies will uproot families from their neighborhoods and children from their schools. We are particularly concerned about the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) proposal for Columbia in Howard County, Maryland. Columbia is a community that prides itself on its socio-economic diversity. Maryland families move to Columbia for its schools and neighborhoods with a true sense of community. We are advised under HUD’s proposal, Columbia will lose its own Fair Market Rent area and be a part of the City of Baltimore and Baltimore County area. In HUD’s proposal, Columbia is hit the hardest. HUD’s policies are contradictory. HUD supports reducing funding for Moving-to-Work, a program that has helped the City of Baltimore address its acute housing needs, because it would rather give families a voucher to move to communities of opportunities. Yet now, HUD is cutting the rental assistance that allows families to move to more affluent and stable neighborhoods in Howard and Baltimore Counties. HUD can’t have it both ways. We look forward to your solving this problem. Sincerely,
09.24.2015	Washington, D.C. (September 24, 2015)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on Pope Francis’ historic address to the Joint Meeting of Congress: “As a man of faith, and the child of two preachers, I was deeply moved by Pope Francis’ words today. It is clear that the Pope is a deeply spiritual man operating in a material world. “He challenged all Members of Congress to reach not just common ground, but to reach higher ground. He has called on all of us to rise above partisan bickering to solve the problems of our time—not for us, but for our children and our children’s children. “May the Pope’s words serve as a reminder to all of my colleagues that we do not legislate in a vacuum, and we do not legislate for a day or a week. We are legislating for generations yet unborn, and we have a moral responsibility to do everything in our power to help people live the best lives that they can. “I want to thank Pope Francis for his historic address and for sharing his message of love, unity, humility and sacrifice with the world.”
09.24.2015	Washington, D.C. (September 24, 2015) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings and U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin (all D-MD) announced that $1,011,443 in federal grant funding has been awarded to the Governor’s Office of Crime Control and Prevention (GOCCP) to help defray increased police overtime costs surrounding the civil unrest following the death of Freddie Gray. Federal funding is made available through the U.S. Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Byrne Justice Assistance Grants (BJAG) program. Senator Mikulski is Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies (CJS) Subcommittee, which fund DOJ. Senator Cardin is a member of the Senate Finance Committee and author of the BALTIMORE Act, legislation designed to address many of the core issues that have led to April’s unrest in Baltimore. “I applaud the Obama Administration for its continued support as we strive to rebuild Baltimore and create a brighter future for our city,” Congressman Cummings said. “This grant will help ensure that our law enforcement officers are appropriately compensated for their work--an important step toward helping the Baltimore Police Department become the elite of the elite in law enforcement.” “These federal funds help the City of Baltimore meet the costs of protecting people and property during the riots following the death of Freddie Gray,” said Senator Mikulski, Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds DOJ. “While this funding is a fraction of the total cost incurred by the State of Maryland, I am pleased that the DOJ heeded our calls for assistance. I thank the men and women of Maryland’s law enforcement community who worked tirelessly to protect our city.” “Baltimore was shaken by the civil unrest that took place after Freddie Gray’s death to levels beyond the means of local officials and, for the most part, federal agencies have stepped up to their responsibilities as partners in the City’s recovering and renewal,” said Senator Cardin. “These federal funds will help allow Baltimore area police departments, whose officers helped restore the peace, to continue to do their jobs helping our communities stay safe.” The Maryland GOCCP will use the BJAG grant to help defray police overtime and salary costs associated with the civil unrest that unfolded in Baltimore following the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody. BJAG is the primary provider of federal criminal justice funding to state and local jurisdictions. Grants are administered through DOJ’s Office of Justice Programs, and awarded based on a formula of population and violent crime statistics. The program provides critical funding needed to support a range of program areas including law enforcement, prosecution and court programs, prevention and education programs, corrections and community corrections, drug treatment and enforcement, crime victim and witness initiatives, and planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs.
09.21.2015	Baltimore, MD (September 21, 2015)— Today, Green Street Academy, a 6-12th grade charter school housed in the formerly-vacant Gwynns Falls Junior High School(GFJHS) celebrated its Grand Opening. Cummings, an alumnus of GFJHS, delivered the keynote address. “I can barely recognize my old junior high school,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am inspired by the teaching philosophy and commitment to this neighborhood exhibited by everyone at this school. I know that the dedicated staff at this school will inspire every student that walks in these halls to have confidence in their competence to make their future dreams a reality.” “The building is an actualization of the vision of this school—to be a driver of environmental, and more importantly economic, sustainability in this community,” said Green Street Academy's Executive Director, Dan Schochor. Following a $23 million renovation, the new Academy boasts chicken coops and tilapia farms which will supply local restaurants like Woodberry Kitchen; Virtual Reality Labs that will take students through active construction sites; and partnerships with the United States Department of Forestry and the University of Maryland Medical School to provide students with competitive internship experiences and industry certifications. The Academy’s opening is a welcomed break from the pattern of divestment from the once middle-class St. Joseph’s neighborhood in West Baltimore. The median income of the neighborhood is now $36,000 and nearly half of the residents have not earned their high school diplomas. The Academy believes that its commitment to educating not only students, but parents and residents of the community, will be a critical element in supporting an upward mobility and economic sustainability for the entire St. Joseph’s neighborhood. Cummings is committed to uplifting the youth of Baltimore City. In July, Cummings joined students participating in the University of Maryland, Baltimore’s Summer bioscience Internship Program at an annual luncheon. Cummings, a 1976 graduate of the University of Maryland Francis King Cary School of Law, encouraged UMB to create the program in order to provide opportunities for Baltimore students to learn about careers in biomedical research through hands-on work experience. A video of his remarks to the students is available here. On September 26, 2015, at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory in Laurel, MD, Cummings will be the keynote speaker at the Black-male Orientation to Leadership Development (BOLD) conference. Cummings will be speaking to African-American men in grades 8 to 11 who are struggling in school. A video about Green Street is available here.
09.16.2015	September 15, 2015 (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) today joined Congressmen Don Beyer (D-VA) and Keith Ellison (D-MN) to celebrated National Voter Registration Month today by introducing the Pre-Registration of Voters Everywhere (PROVE) Act. Beyer’s legislation would allow young Americans over the age of sixteen to pre-register to vote, streamlining the voting process once they turn eighteen. “To help tackle the poverty, over-criminalization, violence, and unemployment we see in communities across this country, especially poor communities of color, we must help our children understand the power of their vote,” Rep. Cummings said. “The PROVE Act works to engage our nation’s young people with the election process early, and to encourage their lasting participation in our democracy for years to come.” “This is a common sense reform to increase civic engagement in our youngest generations,” said Rep. Beyer. “Pre-registration, especially when reinforced with a strong civics curriculum, is a proven method to boost engagement in future generations. This is a small but meaningful step to strengthening representative government and our American democracy.” “Our nation is stronger when our government reflects the makeup and the values of the American people. One way to ensure that is by making it easier to vote and getting as many people as possible to the ballot box. The PROVE Act will do just that. In the 20 states where sixteen year olds can already pre-register, civic engagement for young people is higher. Passing a federal law requiring all states to allow pre-registration will help our government be more representative and respond to the needs of all Americans,” said Rep. Ellison. Young people are already allowed to pre-register to vote in twenty states and the District of Columbia. The PROVE Act would nationalize this standard to engage more youth voters, who are overwhelmingly marginalized at the ballot box, and provide grant assistance to states to drive civics education. In the last election, only sixteen percent of eligible voters under the age of 24 cast their vote. The non-profit grassroots organization Common Cause, dedicated to restoring the core values of American democracy, has already signed on to support the Beyer-Ellison legislation. “Common Cause commends Congressmen Beyer and Ellison for introducing the PROVE Act,” said Aaron Scherb, Director of Legislative Affairs at Common Cause. “At a time when some states and localities are making it more difficult for Americans to vote, the PROVE Act is desperately needed to help ensure that all eligible voters can have their voices heard at the ballot box.” Project Vote, a national nonprofit working to empower, educate, and mobilize low income, minority, youth, and other underrepresented voters, pledged their support to the PROVE Act. "We applaud the leadership of Congressmen Beyer and Ellison on this important issue," said Marissa Liebling, Legislative Director for Project Vote. "Young Americans remain dramatically underrepresented at the ballot box, and pre-registration has proven to be an effective and efficient way of engaging this population in the democratic process." FairVote, an advocacy group researching and advancing electoral reforms to make democracy more functional, representative, and fair, also weighed in to support the PROVE Act. "It's time to make pre-registration a national norm. We've supported and tracked it from the beginning. Experience shows that voter pre-registration is good government that efficiently increases the number of young people accurately placed on active voter rolls when they reach voting age. It has passed by lopsided margins in Republican-run states like Florida and Louisiana and in Democratic-run states like Maryland and Delaware -- and delivered on its promises in all of them,” said Rob Richie, Executive Director of FairVote. Pre-registration was one aspect of ‘access to the ballot’ that the Center for American Progress used when grading the Health of State Democracies in a recent report. Of the fifty states and the District of Columbia, Virginia ranked a disappointing 50th.
09.11.2015	Washington, D.C. (September 11, 2015)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on Baltimore City Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake’s announcement that she will not seek re-election: “Over the many years that I have known Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, she has been a fighter for the people of Baltimore‎. For more than 20 years, she has served in City government, and she has dedicated her life to uplifting everyone in our City. “Even her decision not to seek reelection, in her own words, is based on her commitment to ensuring that she spends the remaining 15 months of her term focused on Baltimore’s future, not her own. “I am deeply grateful for the decades of leadership she has provided to our City, and I remain committed to assisting her in her efforts to move Baltimore forward for the duration of term.”
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Members of Congress led by U.S. Sens. Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Ron Johnson (R-WI) in the Senate and Reps. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) and Darrell Issa (R-CA), in the House of Representatives, introduced the Fair Chance Act, bipartisan, bicameral legislation that would give formerly incarcerated people a fairer chance at securing employment by prohibiting federal contractors and federal agencies from asking about the criminal history of a job applicant until an applicant receives a conditional offer of employment. Sen. Booker and Rep. Cummings were joined by U.S. Sens. Ron Johnson (R-WI), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Joni Ernst (R-IA), along with Reps. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), John Conyers (D-MI), and Bobby Scott (D-VA). Visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Minority to see the full statement.
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON, Sept. 10 – Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D-Md.) today introduced legislation to address skyrocketing increases in prescription drug prices. Visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Minority to see the full statement.
09.09.2015	Washington, DC (September 9, 2015)—Today, Reps. Carolyn Maloney (D-New York), Patrick Meehan (R-Pennsylvania), Elijah Cummings (D-Maryland), Peter T. King (R- New York), Mike Fitzpatrick (R-Pennsylvania), Robin Kelly (D-Illinois), Dan Donovan (R- New York), and Tammy Duckworth (D- Illinois) are re-introducing a bipartisan bill in the House of Representatives to make firearms trafficking a federal crime and impose stronger penalties for “straw purchasers” who buy guns for convicted felons and others who are prohibited from buying guns on their own. Visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Minority to see the full statement.
09.01.2015	Washington, D.C. (September 1, 2015)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) announced his support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action: “I have carefully considered the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) that the United States and our international negotiating partners (P5+1) have reached with Iran regarding its nuclear program. I believe that the rejection of the Iran nuclear agreement would likely cause more harm to the United States, American interests, and our allies by allowing for continued progress toward an Iranian nuclear weapon. “The fundamental issue for both the Congress and the American people to evaluate is clear: What is the alternative to moving forward with the very real restrictions placed by the JCPOA on the development of an Iranian nuclear weapon? “Time is of the essence in answering this question. Some of our best nuclear scientists have concluded that without the approval and implementation of the JCPOA, Iran may be able to produce an operational nuclear weapon within months. We must address this imminent threat and the JCPOA significantly enhances our ability to do so, both immediately and into the future. “Under the terms of the JCPOA, Iran will retain only a fraction of what is needed for even a single nuclear weapon. President Obama, Secretaries Kerry and Moniz, and many other leading military, intelligence, and scientific experts agree that the JCPOA is the best mechanism currently available to deter Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons. “This resolution to the immediate threat posed by Iran’s nuclear program is compelling, as are the security benefits that the United States and its allies will gain via the strict regimen of inspections provided by the JCPOA and our nation’s unilateral ability to “snap back” the whole range of sanctions in the event of any Iranian noncompliance. “The long-standing, non-partisan and publicly-declared foreign policy commitment of the United States is clear. We will do whatever is required to prevent Iran from possessing nuclear weapons. Our nation has not ruled out any option that may be required to achieve this objective, including the use of military force. “Where the security interests of the United States and our allies are concerned, any alternative to the JCPOA must be judged against the real and tangible gains achieved by the JCPOA. “Additionally, I have found no factual basis for the speculation that congressional rejection of the JCPOA will force the Iranians back to the negotiating table and allow us to achieve a better resolution. “For these reasons, I will support the implementation of the JCPOA by the United States when it is brought to a vote in the House of Representatives.”
08.31.2015	Washington, D.C. (August 31, 2015)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the passing of former Maryland Governor Marvin Mandel: “I join my fellow Marylanders in mourning the death of former Governor Marvin Mandel. “Governor Mandel had a lasting impact on Maryland. During his time as Governor, he invested in the state’s public school and public transportation systems, and we are still reaping the benefits of those investments today. “My thoughts and prayers are with his family.”
08.26.2015	Washington, D.C. (August 26, 2015)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued a statement on Women’s Equality Day. Today marks the 95th anniversary of the adoption of the 19th amendment which guarantees a woman’s right to vote. “When the 19th Amendment was ratified 95 years ago today, America took a step toward becoming a more fair society. “As we recognize this great milestone, we must continue working to ensure equal access and opportunity for women, including closing the wage gap that pays women 78 cents for every dollar a man is paid; encouraging paid family leave; and expanding affordable child care. “On this Women’s Equality Day, let us rededicate ourselves to honoring the power of women, who are nearly 50 percent of the workforce and the backbones of our families, because when women succeed, America succeeds.”
08.25.2015	BALTIMORE, MD – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings joined U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin and Rep. John P. Sarbanes (all D-Md.) to announce that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded $3,365,733 million in Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration grant program funding and $325,000 in Healthy Homes supplemental funding to the City of Baltimore. With this grant, the City will be able to address lead hazards in 230 housing units for low- and very low-income families, and perform healthy homes assessments in 330 units. “Lead poisoning is one of the most preventable environmental diseases, and still, many of our children have been affected,” Congressman Cummings said. “I commend HUD for awarding this grant to Baltimore to provide the city with the resources needed to keep our children safe and healthy.” “Children are disproportionately at risk for lead poisoning in major urban areas. Children from poor families are at the greatest risk – they are eight times more likely to get lead poisoning than other children,” said Senator Mikulski, Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “That’s why I fought to create the lead paint demonstration program and stand up each year to increase funding to remove lead-based paint from homes in Maryland and across the country. Baltimore families need a government on their side. This funding is an important step in protecting children from lead exposure and make a real difference for Baltimore’s families.” “Responsible public officials have a duty to protect the most vulnerable among us, especially children. Lead paint poisoning continues to be a public health issue that negatively impacts the lives of too many people in Baltimore City,” said Senator Cardin, a senior member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. “We know the long-term impacts of lead poisoning can be costly and even deadly. This federal investment in lead paint remediation will help saves lives in Baltimore City. Every American deserves access to safe and secure housing and this grant bring us one step closer to that goal.” “Too many children in Baltimore are exposed to and suffer from the toxic effects of lead poisoning,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “This important grant funding from HUD will help mitigate lead exposures in hundreds of low-income housing units throughout the city.” Baltimore City has nearly three times the national rate of lead poisoning, which disproportionately affects African-American children living in old, distressed housing. To combat lead poisoning, this funding will help the City of Baltimore collaborate with a diverse set of local partners, including the Baltimore City Health Department and the Green and Healthy Homes Initiative to identify and cut down on lead paint in low- and very low-income homes. Baltimore is one of 14 cities receiving a Lead Hazard Reduction grant to address lead hazards in 3,165 housing units across the country. Lead poisoning is the number one environmental hazard threatening children throughout the United States. It can reduce IQ, cause learning disabilities, and impair hearing. Elevated and high exposures to lead can damage children’s kidneys and central nervous system, and can cause anemia, confusion, and even death. It is estimated that anti-social behaviors and increased special education needs caused by lead poisoning costs the general public millions of dollars each year due to lost wages and burden on taxpayers.
08.20.2015	Washington, D.C. (Aug. 20, 2015)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement in response to a new report from the Kaiser Family Foundation reporting that Republican voters are more concerned about escalating prescription drug prices than the Affordable Care Act: Visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Minority to see the full statement.
08.20.2015	Washington, D.C. (Aug. 20, 2015)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to the Center for Medical Progress requesting information about whether the group broke federal or state laws during its multi-year effort to establish a fake company, solicit charitable donations as a 501(c)(3) organization, and secretly record videos of Planned Parenthood employees without their consent. Visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Minority to see the full statement.
08.19.2015	Washington, D.C. (August 19, 2015)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the passing of former Ohio Congressman and founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus Louis B. Stokes: “Our country suffered a great loss with the death of former Congressman Louis B. Stokes. “The first African-American elected to Congress from Ohio, Congressman Stokes was a trailblazer and a statesman who dedicated his life to public service. He was a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus, and spent his career in Congress fighting to increase opportunities for Ohioans and African-Americans across the country. “My prayers are with his entire family, and the state of Ohio.”
08.19.2015	Washington, D.C. (August 19, 2015)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the passing of Dr. Keiffer Mitchell, Sr.: “My heart is heavy from the loss of my friend Dr. Keiffer Mitchell, Sr. “Keiffer was a great physician, and even greater man and father. A member of a pioneering family rooted in service, he spent his life serving patients—especially the underserved—at his medical practice in West Baltimore. Dr. Mitchell took the time to listen to his patients and provide them with the care they would not have received elsewhere. He could have easily retired years ago, but Keiffer believed that helping people was his calling. Baltimore is a better city because of him. “I am praying for the entire Mitchell family as they grieve this devastating loss.”
08.18.2015	Washington, D.C. (August 18, 2015)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) lauded the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) announcement that it has awarded a $200,000 Brownfields Assessment Grant to the City of Baltimore’s Sustainability Office to help revitalize properties. “This grant will help Baltimore turn vacant lots into green spaces to enhance the quality of life for people all over the City,” said Congressman Cummings. “I thank the EPA for supporting Baltimore’s efforts to transform vacant lots from liabilities to assets, and I commend Mayor Rawlings-Blake for her leadership in this years-long initiative.” The grant will allow the city to study 7 vacant and potentially contaminated lots in order to prepare them for redevelopment, including the creation of green spaces for City residents. Since the creation of the Brownfields Assessment Program 20 years ago, Baltimore has received $1.6 million in grants, which has been used to study 65 properties; two of those properties became the Shops at Canton Crossing and Clipper Mill.
08.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings joined U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, and U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Chris Van Hollen, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards and John Delaney (all D-Md.) to announce $80,619,955 in emergency preparedness grants for Maryland from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The grants, awarded by the DHS Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), will help Maryland prepare for and respond to emergencies. “Maryland will be a safer place because of these grants, which will ensure that our first responders have the resources they need to protect Marylanders and save lives,” Congressman Cummings said. “I thank the Department of Homeland Security and the Obama Administration for their continued commitment to Maryland and our brave first responders.” “These grants get us one step closer to keeping Maryland safe, standing up for our first responders and making sure that if terror strikes, measures are in place to protect and save lives,” said Senator Mikulski, Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which puts money in the federal checkbook for these grant programs. “I will never stop fighting for our first responders as they protect our safety here at home. I will keep standing up to protect institutions that are vital to our communities and the physical, social, spiritual and educational well-being of all Americans.” “One of the most basic functions of government is to protect and prevent citizens from being harmed,” said Senator Cardin. “These federal funds elevate the safety and preparedness of communities throughout Maryland, and give the men and women who put their lives on the line to protect us the peace of mind that comes with knowing they have a federal partner as committed to their mission as they are.” “I'm pleased that these grants will help Maryland prepare, respond to, and protect our state against terrorist attacks and major disasters,” said Congressman Steny Hoyer. “This funding is critically important to ensuring that Marylanders are protected during an emergency. It also gives our dedicated first responders the resources they need to keep our communities safe.” “These grants will ensure the National Capital Region and high-risk sites across Maryland are protected and prepared in the event of a disaster,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “From our transportation infrastructure to organizations at a high risk of being targets, we need to be a step ahead of those who would commit acts of terror in our communities. This funding will help keep Marylanders safe.” “From the Port of Baltimore to our Maryland transit system to our respected faith institutions, the federal government wants to ensure all of our local at-risk facilities are completely prepared for any potential emergencies and this DHS funding will help bridge the gap in this important endeavor,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This significant investment in our safety and security will ensure that Maryland’s first responders have the resources and training they need to protect our local communities,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “Importantly, this grant funding includes millions of dollars to safeguard the City and Port of Baltimore from terrorist activity. I’m pleased to see these important federal resources made available to our great city.” “These federal grants will help many of our county, regional, and state institutions develop plans and put resources in place to respond in case of emergency,” Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards said. “It is important that we prepare ahead of time to protect our communities and provide our first responders the tools necessary to help save lives. This level of emergency preparation in our state must remain ongoing, and I look forward to continue working with Team Maryland in that effort.” “These grants deliver federal resources to local communities to help make Maryland safer,” said Congressman Delaney. “As part of the National Capital Region and home to a major international port, Maryland faces unique national security and anti-terrorism challenges and these grants will help protect our communities.” The grants, announced today by DHS, range in size and scope. They include $537,391 in federal funding awarded through the to help protect Baltimore-area high-risk non-profit institutions from terrorist attacks. The grant, awarded by the DHS Urban Area Security Initiative Nonprofit Security Grant Program, funds activities to help nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of terrorist attack undertake emergency preparedness activities. A full list of the grant awards is as follows: • Transit Security Grants: to enhance security measures at critical transit infrastructure points o Maryland Transit Authority – $1,160,694 o Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority - $4,318,991 • State Homeland Security Grant: $6,153,500 to Maryland to support the implementation of State Homeland Security Strategies • Urban Security Area Initiative Grant: to address the unique security needs of high-threat, high-density urban areas o Baltimore Region - $5.5 million o National Capital Region - $54 million • Emergency Management Performance Grant: $6,513,279 to assist in preparing for all hazards in Maryland • Port Security Grant: to implement Area Maritime Transportation Security Plans o AMPORTS, INC - $25,000 o Charles County Government - $12,736 o Charlestown Fire Company - $476,250 o Maryland Department of Natural Resources - $1,210,767 o Maryland Department of State Police - $401,745 o Maryland Department of Transportation – MPA - $198,750 o Ports America Chesapeake LLC - $31,749 o Prince George’s County Police Department - $32,044 • Urban Area Security Initiative Nonprofit Security Grant: for preparedness activities for nonprofit organizations at high risk of terrorist attacks o Baltimore Region  Bnai Jacob Shaarei Zion Congregation - $63,600  Congregation Kneseth Israel - $75,000  Jewish Community Center of Baltimore - $45,000  New Israel Rabbinical College - $75,000  Temple Isaiah - $66,291  Torah Institute of Baltimore - $75,000 o National Capital Region  Congregation Har Tzeon-Agudath Achin - $62,500  Islamic Center of Maryland - $75,000 • Intercity Bus Security Grant: to create a sustainable program for the protection of intercity bus systems and the traveling public from terrorism o AP Xpress Bus Company, Inc. - $8,897 o Eyre Bus Service, Inc. - $38,162
08.17.2015	Washington, D.C. (August 17, 2015)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) applauded the Obama Administration for awarding $2.5 million in federal grants to fund the Heroin Response Strategy, an unprecedented partnership between five High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTAs)—Washington/Baltimore, New York/New Jersey, Appalachia, New England, and Philadelphia/Camden. The Strategy will span 15 states and the District of Columbia, and will enhance efforts to address the severe heroin threat these communities are facing. Specifically, it will foster collaboration to enhance public health-public safety partnerships, to bolster criminal intelligence gathering and law enforcement operations, and to mobilize rapid public health responses like naloxone distribution and expanding access to resources. The Washington-Baltimore HIDTA will also receive nearly $250,000 to fund prosecutors whose efforts will focus on bringing to justice those organizations supplying heroin and fentanyl to Baltimore. “I applaud the Obama Administration for recognizing the great work being accomplished through these HIDTAs, and for providing them with the resources needed to battle this deadly epidemic. The size and reach of this collaboration is remarkable, and I look forward to its success,” said Congressman Cummings. “I am continually impressed with the ongoing hard work of our Washington/Baltimore HIDTA, and I am pleased that the Administration is helping ensure our region has the resources it needs. “It is only when we all work together, at the local, state, and federal levels, that we can begin to eradicate problems like heroin use and drug trafficking from our communities. In Baltimore and around this country, these HIDTA efforts give us hope that we can reclaim our cities, bring safety and security to our streets, and dream of brighter futures for our children.” Historically, the Washington/Baltimore region has been plagued with drug trafficking. By 1998, heroin use had overtaken cocaine use in the region, and in 2000, the Drug Enforcement Administration found that Baltimore had the highest per capita rates for heroin use in the entire country. Congress created the HIDTA program in 1988 to promote coordination between federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies operating in areas determined to be critical drug trafficking regions of the United States. The Washington/Baltimore area was designated as a HIDTA in 1994. Law enforcement organizations working within HIDTAs assess drug trafficking issues and design specific initiatives to decrease the production, transportation, distribution, and chronic use of drugs and money laundering. Over just the last three years, the work of the Washington/Baltimore HIDTA has led to thousands of drug seizures, fugitive captures, and firearms taken off the streets. Congressman Cummings, whose congressional district includes much of Baltimore, is one of the strongest supporters of the HIDTA program in Congress. He spoke at the National Conference of HIDTA officials and employees in February of this year, highlighting the importance of the Washington/Baltimore HIDTA’s work in Baltimore to combat the heroin epidemic. In March, Cummings co-led 70 of his House colleagues in a bipartisan letter to the House Appropriations Committee requesting $250 million in funding for HIDTA for FY 2016—a level of funding which was included in the House Appropriations bill. In addition to ensuring that the HIDTA program is fully-funded, since last fall, Cummings has been investigating the increasingly high prices states like Maryland are being charged for the critical opioid overdose drug naloxone.
08.16.2015	Washington, D.C. (August 16, 2015)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the passing of civil rights icon Julian Bond: “I am deeply saddened by the death of my friend and civil rights hero Julian Bond. “My thoughts and prayers are with his family. “From his time as a founder of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, to his leadership of the Southern Poverty Law Center, to his service in the Georgia state legislature, to his chairmanship of the NAACP and every position he held in between, Julian dedicated his life to ensuring fairness and equality for all Americans. “We should all be inspired by his life, and follow his example by dedicating ourselves to ensuring a more fair and more just society for all Americans.”
08.13.2015	Washington, D.C. (August 13, 2015)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Senators Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin, and Reps. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-MD) sent a letter to Maryland Governor Larry Hogan pressing him to detail how much money his administration is willing to invest in Baltimore’s transit system. The letter comes three days after a Monday, August 10th meeting hosted by Maryland Secretary of Transportation Pete Rahn on the Governor’s decision to cancel the Red Line project, which Cummings, Mikulski and Sarbanes attended. “We appreciated the opportunity to meet with Secretary of Transportation Pete Rahn on August 10 to discuss your decision to cancel the Red Line project,” the Members wrote. “However, we left the meeting uncertain about the exact amounts of money that your administration expects to invest in Baltimore’s transit system.” In June, Governor Hogan announced that he will not build the Red Line, which would have connected the east and west sides of Baltimore. During Monday’s meeting, Secretary Rahn stated that the Hogan Administration intends to invest in Baltimore’s existing transit system, but refused to identify the amount of funding that would be available to implement improvements. According to the Census Bureau, from 2011 to 2013, the median household income for Baltimore City—$41,000—was more than $30,000 less than the median household income of the entire state of Maryland—$72,000. Building the Red Line would have provided much-needed access to public transportation to areas of the city where the median income is as low as $31,000 and where 39 percent of households lack access to an automobile, according to the Jacob France Institute. Specifically, the Members asked the Governor to answer the following questions: Secretary Rahn indicated during the meeting on August 10 that the State of Maryland will be spending approximately $1.5 billion on transit in Baltimore over the next six years – a claim repeated by a spokesperson for the Maryland Department of Transportation (MDOT) according to a recent article in the Baltimore Sun. The Sun article also reports that the MDOT spokesperson identified a list of projects on which the $1.5 billion is to be spent, including “replacing 90 cars in the MTA’s Metro Subway fleet, replacing the 65-year-old bus maintenance and operation facility at the Kirk Bus Division, and implementing new technology on buses to provide a true real-time bus arrival system.” Many of these projects seem intended to maintain or repair existing transit systems – or to upgrade existing structures – rather than to expand system capacity or create new infrastructure. Can you please identify the projects on which the $1.5 billion you already plan to invest in transit in Baltimore will be expended? Also, can you identify how much of the $1.5 billion will be derived from each of federal, state, and other sources? How much money does your administration expect to expend on Maryland Transit Administration (MTA) transit operations over the next four years? How much of the expenditure will come from each of federal, state, and other sources? Secretary Rahn and MTA Administrator Comfort indicated during the meeting on August 10 that specific measures are under consideration to improve the MTA’s operations. As reported in the Baltimore Sun, MDOT expects to present a plan for such improvements within the next two months. What are the types of improvements under consideration, how much money does your administration plan to make available to implement these improvements, and how much of that sum will be derived from each of federal, state, and other sources? Secretary Rahn also indicated during the meeting on August 10 that your administration would notify the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) this week that it will not be pursuing the Red Line project and will not apply for the federal funding appropriated for the project. Have you made such notification to the FTA – or, on what date will the notification be made – and what was the total amount of funding you indicated the state will not need for this canceled project? Finally, how much funding will your administration make available – whether from the Transportation Trust Fund or from any other source – to support a capital investment in Baltimore that will result in the construction of new transportation infrastructure to provide new capacity for the city’s transit system? The Members continued, “We believe that understanding the amount of money you plan to invest in Baltimore’s transit system will enable us to understand the parameters of what is truly possible for Baltimore under your administration.” A PDF of the letter can be found here and the full text follows: August 13, 2015 The Honorable Larry Hogan Governor State of Maryland 100 State Circle Annapolis, MD 21401 Dear Governor Hogan: We write today to seek additional information on the specific amounts of money that you plan to expend on transit in Baltimore, including any amounts that will be available to be invested in a new transit capital project(s) in the City. We appreciated the opportunity to meet with Secretary of Transportation Pete Rahn on August 10 to discuss your decision to cancel the Red Line project. However, we left the meeting uncertain about the exact amounts of money that your administration expects to invest in Baltimore’s transit system. Specifically, we would like to know the answers to the following questions: Secretary Rahn indicated during the meeting on August 10 that the State of Maryland will be spending approximately $1.5 billion on transit in Baltimore over the next six years – a claim repeated by a spokesperson for the Maryland Department of Transportation (MDOT) according to a recent article in the Baltimore Sun. The Sun article also reports that the MDOT spokesperson identified a list of projects on which the $1.5 billion is to be spent, including “replacing 90 cars in the MTA’s Metro Subway fleet, replacing the 65-year-old bus maintenance and operation facility at the Kirk Bus Division, and implementing new technology on buses to provide a true real-time bus arrival system.”[1] Many of these projects seem intended to maintain or repair existing transit systems – or to upgrade existing structures – rather than to expand system capacity or create new infrastructure. Can you please identify the projects on which the $1.5 billion you already plan to invest in transit in Baltimore will be expended? Also, can you identify how much of the $1.5 billion will be derived from each of federal, state, and other sources? How much money does your administration expect to expend on Maryland Transit Administration (MTA) transit operations over the next four years? How much of the expenditure will come from each of federal, state, and other sources? Secretary Rahn and MTA Administrator Comfort indicated during the meeting on August 10 that specific measures are under consideration to improve the MTA’s operations. As reported in the Baltimore Sun, MDOT expects to present a plan for such improvements within the next two months. What are the types of improvements under consideration, how much money does your administration plan to make available to implement these improvements, and how much of that sum will be derived from each of federal, state, and other sources? Secretary Rahn also indicated during the meeting on August 10 that your administration would notify the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) this week that it will not be pursuing the Red Line project and will not apply for the federal funding appropriated for the project. Have you made such notification to the FTA – or, on what date will the notification be made – and what was the total amount of funding you indicated the state will not need for this canceled project? Finally, how much funding will your administration make available – whether from the Transportation Trust Fund or from any other source – to support a capital investment in Baltimore that will result in the construction of new transportation infrastructure to provide new capacity for the City’s transit system? During the August 10 meeting, Secretary Rahn asked attendees for their inputs on how transit in Baltimore can be improved but he refused to identify the amount of funding that would be available to implement such improvements. The citizens of Baltimore want to know that under your administration, Baltimore – the beating heart of Maryland – will get “back on track” and be a place of “unlimited promise.”[2] We believe that understanding the amount of money you plan to invest in Baltimore’s transit system will enable us to understand the parameters of what is truly possible for Baltimore under your administration. Sincerely, Barbara A. Mikulski United States Senator Benjamin Cardin United State Senator Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Member of Congress John P. Sarbanes Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, Mayor, City of Baltimore Pete K. Rahn, Secretary, Maryland Department of Transportation 1 “Hogan officials, analysts clash over Baltimore transit funds,” Baltimore Sun (Aug. 11, 2015) (online at https://www.baltimoresun.com/news/maryland/politics/bs-md-ci-red-line-analyst-20150811-story.html#page=1). 2 State of the State Address: “A New Direction for Maryland,” Office of Governor Larry Hogan (Feb. 4, 2015) (online at https://governor.maryland.gov/2015/02/04/state-of-the-state-address/).
08.06.2015	Washington, D.C. (August 6, 2015)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement on the 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act of 1965: “Fifty years ago today, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act, one of the most effective safeguards to Americans’ fundamental right to vote. “Many people believe that the law’s effort to confront state-level disenfranchisement was a product of its times, and a solution to problems long gone. This could not be further from the truth. “Just yesterday, a federal appeals court ruled that Texas’s strict voter identification law discriminated against African-Americans and Hispanics and violated the Voting Rights Act, proving that the protections afforded by the Act are as important now as they were in 1965. “Today, as our nation faces vital issues like growing economic, racial, and gender inequality, we must do everything in our power to protect the voting rights of all Americans. “The ability to vote and have one’s vote count are fundamental elements of our great democracy.”
07.31.2015	Washington, D.C. (July 31, 2015)— Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released the following statement today applauding the Obama Administration’s announcement of a pilot program to give inmates in federal and state prisons access to Pell Grants: “I commend the Administration for taking strides to ensure that those in the criminal justice system have an opportunity to be educated and better prepared to reenter their communities upon release. “The Second Chance Pell Pilot program would help reduce recidivism rates, while also helping break the cycle of crime that often persists generation to generation. “This is exactly the type of commonsense criminal justice reform we need, and I urge my colleagues in Congress to keep building on this momentum by joining our efforts on the bipartisan, broad-based SAFE Justice Act. ” Cummings is working hard in Congress to fix our country’s criminal justice system, and is an original cosponsor of the SAFE Justice Act—legislation to reduce recidivism, concentrate prison space on violent and career criminals, increase the use of evidence-based alternatives to incarceration, curtail over-criminalization, reduce crime, and save money. The Second Chance Pell Pilot program was announced at an event at a correctional institution in Jessup, MD, which Cummings attended
07.30.2015	Washington, D.C. (July 30, 2015)—Today, Senator Barbara Mikulski, Vice-Chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, announced the introduction of landmark legislation to appropriate more than $1.2 billion in emergency funding to address critical challenges facing our nation’s inner-city neighborhoods. The Rebuilding Urban Inner Cities is Long Overdue Act of 2015 (REBUILD Act) will provide funding to help rebuild neighborhoods decimated by decades of discriminatory policies, to support economic revitalization, and to combat drug and gang violence. “The people who live in our most distressed neighborhoods deserve a government on their side – one that works as hard for them as they work for their own families and communities,” Senator Mikulski said. “This bill is about rehabilitating neighborhoods, making them healthier and safer, and creating jobs today and jobs tomorrow for communities that need it most. By supporting small businesses, rebuilding infrastructure, expanding opportunity for our young people and tackling crime, we will lay the foundation for a brighter future.” “Deep, systemic, and pervasive economic challenges unnecessarily limit the lives of too many inner-city residents in this nation,” said Cummings. “The REBUILD Act will help address the most urgent consequences of our lack of investment in urban areas and the disproportionate impact the Great Recession has had on inner-cities. It will also help ensure that the futures of these communities are priorities to our nation.” The bill includes emergency funding for several critical programs, including: • $500 million for the Community Development Block Grant program, which is essential to revitalizing urban neighborhoods and has been slashed by repeated funding cuts; • $265 million for workforce training programs; • $170 million for the Choice Neighborhoods program; • $30 million to help eliminate lead paint commonly found in older inner-city homes; • additional funding to expand drug courts and combat the methamphetamine and heroin epidemics affecting inner-cities; and • extensions of Moving-to-Work agreements implemented by the Department of Housing and Urban Development through fiscal year 2028. More than 50 years ago, President Lyndon Johnson established the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders, known as the Kerner Commission, to conduct an exhaustive examination of the conditions in which inner-city, predominantly minority residents were living. The Commission famously concluded: “Our Nation is moving toward two societies, one black, one white—separate and unequal.” The Commission urged the nation to turn to its “unfinished business” by ensuring “the realization of common opportunities for all within a single society.” According to the Commission: • between 16% and 20% of all African Americans living in “central cities” lived in “squalor and deprivation”; • the incomes of nearly 41% of “nonwhites” were below the poverty line; and • the unemployment rate for African Americans was more than double the unemployment rate for whites. Yet today, a half century later: • the number of high-poverty (poverty rates of 40% or more) census tracts in metropolitan areas grew by more than 48% between 2000 and 2011, according to a report issued by the Century Foundation and Rutgers Center for Urban Research and Education; • African Americans comprised 37% of the population in high-poverty neighborhoods from 2007 to 2011, and Hispanic Americans comprised approximately 30% of populations in those neighborhoods, according to the Century Foundation and Rutgers Center for Urban Research and Education report; • the median wealth of African American households was 20 times less than that of white households, according to a report issued in 2011 by the Pew Research Center; and • the unemployment rate among African Americans in June 2015 was 9.5% while the overall unemployment rate was 5.3%, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and in many urban areas, this disparity is significantly greater. The noble goals of the Kerner Commission have not been met. Just last month, House Republicans passed legislation that would cut funding for the Public Housing Capital Fund, the Choice Neighborhoods program, and a federal program to reduce exposure to lead paint. The Mikulski-Cummings bill aims to begin reversing the pattern of disinvestment in inner-city communities that has had devastating consequences for local residents over the last 50 years. A one-page summary of the bill can be found here.
07.29.2015	Washington, DC (July 29, 2015)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Primary Health and Retirement Security, sent a letter to the United States Conference of Mayors and the National Association of Counties urging their members to follow the lead of New York and other states that are demanding affordable prices for a critical drug used by first responders nationwide. Visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Minority to see the full statement.
07.28.2015	Washington, DC (July 28, 2015) – Today, top Democrats in the House introduced three bills that would make it illegal for public and private sector employers to discriminate, sexually harass and retaliate against interns. Visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Minority to see the full statement.
07.27.2015	Washington, D.C. (July 27, 2015) – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings spoke at the 47th Annual National Meeting and Conference of the Union of Black Episcopalians in Baltimore, MD. Cummings’ speech as prepared for delivery follows: Congressman Elijah CummingsA Movement, Not a MomentThe Church & “Black Lives Matter”47th Annual National Meeting and ConferenceThe Union of Black EpiscopaliansJuly 27, 2015 Thank you, Rev. [Glenna] Huber, for your kind introduction. And thank you, as well, for all that you and the Church of the Holy Nativity are doing in Northwest Baltimore to give witness to a faith tradition that values every soul and every human life. Good morning, everyone. To President [Annette] Buchanan and our guests from across the country: please allow me to join my neighbors in welcoming you to Maryland and the Baltimore Region. We are honored that the Union of Black Episcopalians has chosen our community for your 47th Annual National Meeting and Conference. *** Please know that we Marylanders share in your joy — and especially the joy of those here from South Carolina — that Bishop Michael Curry has made history by his election as the 1st African American Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church. Bishop Curry was a friend, an inspiration and a guide to all of us during his more than a decade of pastoring Baltimore’s historic St. James Church, and we commend you on your choice. God has a plan for America and for all of us — and I am confident that Bishop Curry is an important part of that plan. We know that Bishop Curry’s election was a long time coming — far too long, to be candid. Yet, we also can have faith that this time is the right time for leaders like Bishop Curry. And my own faith encourages me to declare that “Our time is the right time for “church people” to give witness to the social gospel of our faith.” This is the witness that you in the Conference of Black Episcopalians have been offering for so many years. And, as a person of faith myself, I welcome this opportunity to acknowledge you for your witness over the years. *** The Charge: “Black Lives Matter:” Different Perspectives & Priorities This morning, Rev. Huber has asked me to share some thoughts with you about how I believe the church and her leaders can best play a constructive role in what has come to be called the “Black Lives Matter” movement. In response, I must note that, while it is both permissible and laudable for “church people” to act as good citizens working to influence the actions of our government, our constitutional system does not permit our government or its officers to unduly influence our churches. Within that limitation, however, I will do my best. *** At the outset, I should note that different people have different — if related — perspectives and priorities with respect to the vision of change expressed by the slogan, “Black Lives Matter.” The Initial Focus One viewpoint, arising out of the deaths of African Americans at the hands of the police, the principal concerns expressed by many who have protested have focused upon racial disparities in law enforcement and our criminal justice system. This focus — advanced vigorously by those who coined the phrase, “Black Lives Matter,” — has given priority to reforming racial profiling and the excessive use of force by police officers against African Americans, the mass incarceration of African-Americans by our criminal justice system, and the militarization of many U.S. police departments. An Expanding Focus “Black Lives Matter” has also come to express the need for broader social and economic change — a viewpoint engendered by dissatisfaction by Americans of all racial backgrounds with the educational, economic, housing, and other disparities that dominate the lives of far too many Americans — and, especially, the lives of Americans of Color. *** I mention these differing, but related, perspectives and priorities because they have practical significance for our churches as we seek to express the social gospel of our faith in both public advocacy and our daily lives. Each of us must follow our own calling as to the changes we are willing to struggle to achieve. So, I have not joined you this morning to tell anyone what to do. Rather, I am here as an individual who grew up in the church and remains a “church man” to this day. And, that is where I will begin in my effort to answer Rev. Huber’s charge to me this morning. *** I. WE HAVE COME THIS FAR BY FAITH Brothers and Sisters: Scripture tells us, in Hebrews 11:1, that: Faith is the substance of things hoped for,the evidence of things not seen.For by faith, the elders obtained a good report. And it is service through faith that I came to speak with you today. *** Elijah’s Witness With your permission, allow me to speak to the faith of everyday people - the working-class “church people” of faith who created my own family’s legacy. When I see the elders still guiding and sustaining this gathering, I think of my own parents. Allow me to try to recapture – in my own way – a little of the faith and spirit that led to where we, as a community, are today. As my mother has always taught us, we cannot know where it is we are to go unless we first know where we have been. I offer you this personal testimony today, Brothers and Sisters, because I am the son of a mother and father who began life as sharecroppers in Manning, South Carolina. I am the son of two children of God who - through their faith in a God that lives high but looks low - were empowered to found their own church. And from this perspective, I will speak to God’s mission for us that I have witnessed in my own life. *** My parents, Robert and Ruth Cummings, left their lives as South Carolina share croppers behind and moved to Baltimore. They didn’t have any money. They had little formal education. But they had faith that God was leading them to a place where their children would have a better chance in life. And it was in Baltimore that my own knowledge of their faith journey begins. *** When I was a child, my mother would work all day as a domestic, return home to take care of her children and then go to a prayer meeting. I recall for you the song my mother and her friends among the faithful used to sing at their little church on Baltimore’s Lexington Avenue: “We are soldiers in the army,“We have to fight, although we have to cry.“We have to hold up the blood stained banner.“We have to hold it up until we die!” After the meeting, Mother would visit someone in the neighborhood who was sick, cook a meal for them and clean their house. This was not an unusual pattern of daily service for the members of Mother’s small church. They grew up in a world where people did not expect to receive much help from the government. And they were convinced that one of their callings as children of God was to take care of those in need. I vividly remember how the pastor would raise a “missionary offering" to help families who were experiencing unemployment, who were threatened with eviction, or who were experiencing marital problems or other trying circumstances. Those church members, most of whom earned a minimum wage, would reach deep into their pockets to help others who were in need. Although they paid their taxes, they felt that it was also their duty to help their neighbors and fellow church members. *** I have recalled this memory from my childhood, Brothers and Sisters, because my story is your story as well. My childhood experience in Baltimore’s African American community was not unique. Deprived of economic resources, political power and social standing in the broader society, we all turned to our faith and our churches for help — just as we continue to rely upon our churches today. When I was living in the segregated Baltimore of my youth, a lawyer from the NAACP, Ms. Juanita Jackson Mitchell, had helped Captain Jim Smith and the children from our neighborhood integrate Riverside swimming pool. It was a difficult and terrifying experience. But we succeeded. Later, when a school counselor asked me what I was planning to do with my life as an adult, I told him that I wanted to be like Ms. Mitchell. I wanted to become a lawyer. The counselor (a Black man, I should add) just looked at me and asked: “You want to be a lawyer. Who do you think you are?” *** Now, as you might imagine, Brothers and Sisters, I was devastated by this rebuke. That evening, my mother could tell that I was upset. When I told Mother what the counselor – a man whom I trusted – had said to me, Mother placed her hand on my head and prayed for me. Then she looked me in the eye and told me: “Have faith, Elijah. God has a plan for you.” My mother’s faith uplifted me, friends. I continued to go to school every day. Through faith and hard work, in the years that followed, I earned a Phi Beta Kappa key at Howard University. In God’s due time, I became a lawyer – and, today, I am privileged to serve my community in the Congress of the United States. *** So, my friends, from my own experience, I can testify to the faith that has allowed the elders of America’s Episcopal Church to earn the good report which all of us can attest today. => This same faith, Brothers and Sisters, is sustaining your ministries to the community – your service to the poor and the uplift in life you are giving to our young people. => The same faith that is helping people in Baltimore protect their health – to choose a healthy life rather than a lives devastated by alcohol or drugs. => The same faith that has called this organization to take a stand on the moral and spiritual issues of our time. *** II. THE FACTS ABOUT BALTIMORE:PROTESTS & UPHEAVAL We have come this far by faith — and once again, we must seek guidance as to how best to advance the social gospel that our Lord commanded us to pursue. Rev. Huber’s question is a good one because it is not easy to discern how best to serve during these complex and difficult time for our country. In this vein, allow me to interject my own view about recent events in Baltimore. 1. First — we should not confuse those who engaged in rioting with the far larger number of law-abiding citizens who were protesting what happened to Mr. Freddie Gray. *** 2. Second — those who protested had some quite understandable reasons to do so — reasons that went far beyond the specifics of the Gray tragedy. On this point, we should be aware that the ACLU of Maryland has performed an analysis of recent, police-involved deaths in our State — not just in Baltimore. Consider this: - Between 2010 and 2014, at least 109 people died in police encounters in Baltimore City and 17 of Maryland’s counties. - Although Americans of Color make up about 29% of Maryland’s population, 69% of those who died in police encounters were Black. - And 41% of those who died were not armed with a weapon of any kind. THAT, my friends, is why so many Baltimore citizens were protesting. And THAT is why we must seriously re-think our current policing strategies for dealing with crime and drugs — the original objective of “Black Lives Matter.” *** 3. Third, as to the rioting that occurred in Baltimore, although cable news showed constant footage of businesses being looted and burned, it showed very little footage of my neighbors and me out on the streets each night doing everything that we could to restore calm. 4. Neither did the news channels give much coverage to the many every-day Baltimore residents who came forward in the days following the upheaval to clean up our City and begin the process of rebuilding. Those two facts are critically important to our understanding that there is a largely untapped majority of our community who are law-abiding citizens deeply committed to building a better, safer and more prosperous place in which to live and raise our families. Please keep this potentially powerful majority in mind. They will be critically important to everything we wish to accomplish for our country. *** 5. Finally, what the news channels did accurately show was the sharp contrast between those parts of Baltimore that are successful and affluent and the many pockets of concentrated poverty in our region. These areas of concentrated poverty did not cause the rioting -- but they are the social environment in which the rioting and looting occurred. *** In my view, doing far better at addressing these concentrated areas of generational poverty — as well as reforming the policing practices of our City — are the two major challenges that we have ahead of us. *** III. “BLACK LIVES MATTER”: CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORMAT THE FEDERAL LEVEL Now, with your permission, I will put on my congressional hat for a moment to give you an update on the current prospects for bipartisan criminal justice reform in the Congress of the United States. I will do so because opportunities for progress can arise even during times of social conflict and political acrimony — an insight illustrated by the current bipartisan congressional interest in criminal justice reform. In the wake of the recent social upheaval, we are working on a bipartisan basis in the House of Representatives to advance proposed legislation that would respond too many of the grievances expressed by that original focus of “Black Lives Matter.” Proposals with which I am actively involved would: - provide body-worn cameras to law enforcement, - better train officers with respect to the impact of bias, - increase our information about police-involved deaths, and - support more effective interventions for both at-risk youth and former offenders who are reentering society. One of the most important bipartisan reform measures currently under consideration is the Safe, Accountable, Fair, and Effective Justice Act, or the SAFE Justice Act [H.R. 2944], that was introduced in the House on June 26 by Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Bobby Scott (D-VA) together with 20 bipartisan cosponsors. “Our criminal justice system is long overdue for reform,” Rep. Scott has declared. “The SAFE Justice Act … utilizes an evidence-based approach to reduce over-criminalization and over-incarceration and reinvests the savings into community based prevention and early-intervention programs to improve public safety.” Informed by my years of criminal justice experience on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, I welcomed this opportunity to be an original cosponsor of these potential reforms. As Rep. Sensenbrenner has correctly observed, with just 5 percent of the world’s population, the United States accounts for 25 percent of the world’s prison population. Through reform, the states are reducing their levels of incarceration while also sustaining reductions in crime. Yet, imprisonment in federal prisons has been increasing dramatically. From 1980 to 2013, the number of incarcerated offenders in federal prisons skyrocketed from 24,000 to more than 215,000. However, despite these extraordinary increases in incarceration, recidivism rates have remained high with more than 40 percent of released federal offenders returning to prison within three years. The proposed SAFE Justice Act is the result of years of efforts to identify, compile, and bring to the national level the best, evidence-based practices in criminal justice reform. Moreover, the federal prison system currently consumes more than 25 percent of the entire Department of Justice budget, limiting the funds available for other public safety priorities. Through targeted reform, we are convinced that we can reinvest the savings that this legislation would achieve into efforts that strengthen public safety. To better understand why advocates for reform have reached these conclusions, consider some of the judicial conclusions about mandatory minimum penalties offered by Chief Judge Patti B. Saris for the Federal District of Massachusetts, Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission, during her congressional testimony last year. - Drug offenders make up about a third of the defendants who are convicted and sentenced federally every year — and a majority of the prisoners serving in Federal Bureau of Prisons facilities. - Mandatory minimum penalties for these offenses have contributed significantly to the staggering growth in the federal prison population. - Existing mandatory minimum penalties, moreover, are being unevenly applied, leading to consequences far different from those that Congress intended. For example, in the drug crime context, statutory mandatory minimum penalties are often applied to lower-level offenders rather than being limited to the major drug traffickers whom the Congress intended to target. - Mandatory minimum penalties also impact demographic groups differently, with Black and Hispanic offenders constituting the large majority of offenders subject to mandatory minimum penalties and Black offenders being eligible for relief from those penalties far less often than are other groups. These facts are why the bipartisan federal Sentencing Commission has unanimously recommended statutory changes to reduce and more effectively target mandatory minimum penalties for drug trafficking, concluding that we should allow sentences below mandatory minimum penalties for non-violent, low-level drug offenders. Furthermore, the Commission has recommended that federal law should permit retroactive applications by prisoners in the federal system to reduce the sentencing disparity in the treatment of crack and powder cocaine convictions. Its analysis of recidivism data following the early release of offenders convicted of crack cocaine offenses has shown that reducing these drug sentences would not lead to any increased propensity to reoffend. These policy changes are among the important reforms that the SAFE Justice Act would enact into law. As the evidence from state systems has shown, and as our Republican colleague, Rep. Scott Riggell, has observed, “Reducing crime and advancing meaningful criminal justice reform are not mutually exclusive goals.” At the federal level, I remain committed to addressing the plague of illicit drugs in our society with policies that are firm, humane and cost-effective. Yet, neither the public’s safety nor the federal budget is well-served by consigning more than 215,000 Americans to decades behind bars. *** IV. “BLACK LIVES MATTER”: Achieving “Opportunity for All” Achieving the bi-partisan reforms in our criminal justice system — the focus of that “original Black Lives Matter” perspective that I mentioned — is now a very real possibility, although continued public support in both Blue and Red States will be required if we are to succeed. In my view, however, progress toward that achieving the far more challenging set of socio-economic goals that the broader definition of “Black Lives Matter” encompasses will required a more-sustained, multi-racial and bipartisan movement. Gaining greater clarity about the interactions of race and socio-economic class in our society — as well as achieving a greater comfort level about discussing those insights — is central to making that broader movement. Here, we have the benefit of some history to guide us — so, with your permission, I will digress for a moment. *** During the worst of our recent experience here in Baltimore, some commentators were making comparisons with 1968 – and the riots in Baltimore and elsewhere that followed the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. There are both similarities and differences between 1968 and today, but the perspective of the 1968 Report by the Kerner Commission does have some relevance: Responding to the causal factors from 1968, the Kerner Commission expressed a basic, far-reaching conclusion that America must heed today: “Our nation,” the 1968 Commission observed, “is moving toward two societies, one black, one white—separate and unequal.” “Discrimination and segregation have long permeated much of American life,” the Commission continued, “they now threaten the future of every American. “To pursue our present course will involve the continuing polarization of the American community and, ultimately, the destruction of basic democratic values. “The alternative is not blind repression or capitulation to lawlessness. It is the realization of common opportunities for all within a single society.” *** I remind you of these insights from 47 years in our past because they directly address our challenge today — our challenge both for those of us who are “Church People,” and for all Americans. For Baltimore – and our nation – to progress beyond protest and social upheaval, a shared commitment to realizing “common opportunities for all” will be essential. This is a vision that everyone can share, even if we disagree at times about how best to achieve that vision. Here is a starting point. Our economy has changed dramatically since 1968 — and tens of millions of Americans of all racial backgrounds now doubt whether “opportunity for all” will include them. And that is a very troublesome — and even dangerous — force in our nation, not just here in Baltimore. Consider this: Along with most Americans, I have always believed in the vision of “One America.” I have devoted my public life to the proposition that we are engaged in a historic movement to build a more prosperous and equitable society together. Yet, here in Baltimore and across America, everyday working families are working harder, becoming more productive and, yet, slowly but inexorably being squeezed out of their pursuit of the American Dream. This is the harsh reality confronting Black and White Americans alike. Nationally, most of our poor countrymen and women are White. But the harsh fact is that the poorest of our poor are Black — and they tend to be concentrated in areas like the pockets of extreme poverty that exist in Baltimore. I can tell you this from a personal experience. I live in Baltimore’s inner, inner city. And even as our economy is finally recovering somewhat from the Recession, the families in my neighborhood are asking: “Where are the wages?” This is why Senator Elizabeth Warren and I have launched an initiative called “the Middle Class Prosperity Project” to give a stronger national voice to everyday Americans. Our objective is to galvanize congressional attention on the challenges facing ALL of America’s working families so that those challenges will receive higher priority in the implementation of national policy. Senator Warren, our congressional allies and I believe that the American public deserves clear and convincing answers to some very basic questions. We do not have the right to remain silent. Why, for example, have middle class wages remained flat even as worker productivity has been increasing to historic levels and major corporations are thriving? Why has the cost of basic necessities like housing, health care, education and transportation been rising faster than wage growth, forcing Americans to work longer and harder — even as many sink deeper into debt? *** Armed with the expertise of 12 leading economists (including two Nobel laureates), financial industry experts, and professors from top national universities, Senator Warren and I — along with our allies — are working to answer those critical questions and press the Congress to respond effectively. It is worth noting that the economics experts working with us dispute the contention that these devastating trends in inequality are nothing more than the consequences of basic economics, the results of technological change, or supply and demand in a global economy. As Senator Warren observed during our first Washington Forum on Economic Challenges Facing the Middle Class: “From 1935 to 1980, 90 percent of America’s families . . . got 70 percent of all the income growth in those 45 years. It was a formula that worked: As our country got richer, our families got richer.” “Then, starting in the 1980s,” Senator Warren continued, “something changed.” “Productivity and GDP just kept going up, but workers were left behind. In the 32 years from 1980 until 2012, 90 percent of Americans got zero income growth — nothing.” Senator Warren and I agree with the experts as to how this was allowed to happen. Deliberate choices in Washington have been major factors in the inequities we are witnessing today. Yet, it is important to stress that our Middle Class Prosperity Project is not simply “class warfare” as, I am certain, some will claim. Our economic experts stress that starving the middle class is endangering our entire economy, the affluent and struggling alike. They have concluded that income inequality and the decreasing economic strength of the middle class is now hurting business and the overall economy. Consider, for example, the conclusions of Nobel Laureate and Columbia economics professor Joseph E. Stiglitz: “Some would argue,” Dr. Stiglitz observed, “that the economy needs this inequality to continue to grow. We now have enough data to show that this is simply not true. Greater inequality leads to lower growth and more instability.” “What does create jobs,” he continued, “is demand: where there is demand, America’s firms … will create the jobs to satisfy that demand. Our growing inequality is in fact weakening demand – one of the reasons that inequality is bad for economic performance.” *** Now, I mention this for a good reason. For demand to increase, stimulating our economy and “accelerating the velocity of money,” as some bankers might say, more of our people must have better jobs that pay living, family-supporting wages. We all understand this — but we have been fighting, politically, during this whole period since the 1980s, about how to accomplish this. So, from our perspective, in order to move forward toward that “opportunity for all” that we are considering, we must get the “supply-side” and the “demand-side” forces working together. As we have witnessed, our political system has not done a very good job at achieving this. Only a sustained, ecumenical and multi-racial movement can achieve that transformation *** CLOSING Brothers and Sisters: I realize that I have not given you a complete answer to Rev. Huber’s question about how people of faith can best advance a national agenda toward that day when we no longer have to protest that “Black Lives Matter.” To some extent, this limitation in my remarks is a conscious one. As that song from my Mother’s church reminded us, we all are “soldiers in God’s army.” And the answer to Rev. Huber’s question must come from all of us — not just from one man who has spent his life living in Baltimore’s inner, inner city. Yet, I have come to you today with my own witness. And the core of that witness is this: You have been “chosen,” Brothers and Sisters. Your Steps are ordered – and God has given purpose to your lives. From the Bible, we recall how the disciples of Jesus were pleased that they had chosen such an inspiring and powerful leader. But we should also remember how Jesus replied to the disciples’ conceit. We can find His words in the Book of John, Chapter 15, Verse 16: “Ye have not chosen me,” Jesus reminded the 12, there at John:15:16, “but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit . . . .” God has chosen each of us, my friends. We have been chosen to light the way for our neighbors and, especially, for those who are young. I believe this with all of my heart. But I also recognize that one of the most difficult challenges in life is to truly help another human being. We have been chosen. Yet, we, ourselves, have the responsibility of discerning how we can help to fulfill God’s Plan for our community and our country. Ours is a difficult calling. Yet, I have faith in God, faith in you, and faith in our country. In God’s good time, we shall overcome. I say this to you as the son of sharecroppers whose neighbors raised him up to the Congress of the United States. I say this to you as an ordinary man called to the extraordinary mission of advancing God’s Plan for our country. And I say this to you as a man who, daily, has his humility reinforced by the difficulty of making our world a better place. We must have confidence in God, my friends, and we must have confidence in our own competence to advance God’s Plan. So, in closing, I leave you with these words about the freedom that we are working to achieve for everyone. They are not Dr. King’s words, but they could have been. They are the words of a white cowboy from Oklahoma whom I once heard sing at a White House event during the years of President Clinton’s leadership. <Tells Garth Brooks Story> We Shall Be Free – Garth Brooks (Rel. 9/22/92) This ain’t comin’ from no prophet,Just an ordinary man.When I close my eyes, I seeThe way this world shall be,When we all walk hand in hand. When the last child cries for a crust of bread,When the last man dies for just words that he said,When there’s shelter over the poorest head,We shall be free. When the last thing we notice is the color of skin,And the first thing we look for is the beauty within,When the skies and the oceans are clean again,Then we shall be free. When we're free to love anyone we choose,When this world’s big enough for all different views,When we all can worship from our own kind of pew,Then we shall be free.We shall be free. And when money talks for the very last time,And nobody walks a step behind,When there's only one race and that’s mankind,Then we shall be free. We shall be free.We shall be free.Stand straight, walk proud,‘Cause we shall be free. We shall be free.Have a little faith, Hold out,‘Cause we shall be free. Thank you all. God bless you — and God bless our country.
07.23.2015	Washington, D.C. (July 23, 2015)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, applauded Maryland Attorney General Brian E. Frosh for taking steps to combat the rising cost of naloxone, a life-saving drug used to treat overdoses of heroin and other opioids. Visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Minority to see the full statement.
07.16.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Trudy Perkins (410) 685-9199 Cummings Commends Speaker Boehner for His Support of the SAFE Justice Act Washington, DC (July 16, 2015) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement regarding House Speaker John Boehner’s remarks in support of the SAFE Justice Act today: “I applaud Speaker Boehner for his support of the SAFE Justice Act, and his remarks today that he would like to see the legislation on the floor. Criminal justice reform is truly no longer about being a Republican or a Democrat, a liberal or a conservative. Rather, it is about restoring human dignity to our system. It is about the fact that the U.S. has the highest rate of incarceration of any country in the world, and we can no longer tolerate it. It is about the need to address the fact that people of color are disproportionately represented at practically every stage in the criminal process. Now is the time for us to act. We must pass legislation like the bipartisan, broad-based SAFE Justice Act, a bill I am proud to cosponsor, which would apply scores of evidence-based, state-proven reforms to our criminal justice system. We have talked long enough, we know what works, and we have legislation that would make sure the right changes are made. Let’s get to work, turn this bipartisan moment into a movement, and pass this bill.” # # #
07.16.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 15, 2015 CONTACT: Sue Walitsky 202-224-4524 /Tim Zink 410-962-4436 (Cardin) Rachel MacKnight/Alanna Wellspeak 202-228-1122 (Mikulski) Trudy Perkins 202-225-4741(Cummings) Jaime Lennon 202-225-3061(Ruppersberger) Dan Jacobs 220-225-4016 (Sarbanes) Cardin, Mikulski, Cummings, Ruppersberger and Sarbanes Announce New Opportunity to Bridge Baltimore’s Digital Divide WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski, with U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.), announced that Baltimore will be one of 28 communities selected to participate in ConnectHome, a new initiative established by the Obama Administration to provide access to the Internet for low-income families. Demonstrating an ongoing commitment to rebuilding and revitalizing the City of Baltimore, the new project coordinated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), in collaboration with EveryoneOn and US Ignite, brings together private- and public-sector partners to deliver broadband, technical assistance and digital literacy training to students living in public and assisted housing across America. “High-speed internet access is a must-have for students across Maryland. Baltimore students and their families will benefit greatly from this latest effort by the federal government to improve educational and economic opportunities for our neighborhoods. Increasing access to the Internet, educational resources and technology will make an incredible difference,” said Senator Cardin. “I’m proud of the role the federal government has taken to bring together public and private sector partners to help Baltimore.” “Each and every one of Baltimore’s families should have high-speed access to the Internet so that every student can do their homework, all parents can search for jobs and everyone can stay connected to their communities,” said Senator Mikulski. “Technology is a critical tool for empowerment and no child or community should be left behind. That’s what ConnectHome is all about – closing America’s digital divide.” “Access to the Internet is a necessity for students at a very early age. Children who are not connected at home are falling further behind their peers not only in grade school, but as they enter college and a high-tech working world," said Congressman Cummings. “ConnectHome will help level the playing field for low-income families in Baltimore by connecting students online with their teachers and their schools' educational resources. I commend the President and his Administration for creating this opportunity. By ensuring high-speed Internet access at home, we will open up a new world of educational opportunities for our children.” “I am thrilled that Baltimore will be included in the launch of this critical effort to bring Internet access to low-income families, especially those with children,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Having the Internet at home allows students more time for research, homework and independent learning. It also helps parents improve their computer skills and enable them to search and apply for jobs online. This is about leveling the playing field for all families and providing opportunity.” “More than 20 percent of Baltimoreans lack access to broadband Internet at home, preventing them from seeking employment opportunities, taking advantage of online learning platforms, accessing information about health care, and searching for goods and government services,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “The ConnectHome pilot program will play an important role in helping Baltimore bridge the digital divide and will make a positive impact on our city’s communities.” ConnectHome seeks to create a platform for collaboration between local governments, members of private industry, nonprofit organizations, and other interested entities that will produce locally tailored solutions for narrowing the digital divide. The investments will help to address the barriers to broadband access found in each relevant community, which may include: the costs associated with affording high-speed service and electronic devices; the need for training in digital literacy skills; and a lack of necessary infrastructure in buildings. HUD’s ConnectHome initiative strives to ensure that students can access the same level of high-speed Internet at home that they possess in their classrooms. Without the allocation of additional federal dollars, ConnectHome reallocates existing resources and brings together partners to expand broadband access and to offer new technical training and digital literacy programs for residents in assisted housing units. More details can be found here. Some of the partnerships include: · Age of Learning, Inc. will make its ABCmouse.com online early learning curriculum available, for free, to families living in HUD housing in ConnectHome communities. · The Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) will produce and distribute new educational, children’s, and digital literacy content via participating local PBS stations tailored for ConnectHome participants. · GitHub will provide $250,000 to support devices and digital literacy training to HUD residents in ConnectHome cities. · The American Library Association will lead a collaboration with local libraries in all the ConnectHome communities to deliver tailored, on-site digital literacy programming and resources to public housing residents. · Boys & Girls Clubs of America will provide digital literacy training for HUD residents in ConnectHome communities that have a Boys & Girls Club. · Best Buy will offer HUD residents in select ConnectHome demonstration project cities, including Choctaw Tribal Nation, the computer training and technical support needed to maximize the academic and economic impact of broadband access. Best Buy will also offer afterschool technical training, for free, to students participating in ConnectHome at Best Buy Teen Centers in Atlanta, Los Angeles, New York City, San Antonio, and Washington, DC. ###
07.07.2015	Washington, D.C. (July 7, 2015) – U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) today joined Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake and senior Obama Administration officials to announce a new solar energy and job creation initiative in Baltimore. The initiative will provide Baltimore residents with access to affordable solar energy and job training to begin careers in solar energy. “We are committed to harnessing the sun’s energy and the energy of the people of Baltimore to create better jobs and lower energy costs for the entire region,” Congressman Cummings said. “I thank the Obama Administration for its commitment to scaling up access to solar energy in Baltimore and I look forward to doing all I can to support this initiative.” The initiative includes a public-private partnership called Realizing an Inclusive Solar Economy (RISE) between SunEdison, non-profit solar installer GRID Alternatives, Baltimore area non-profit Civic Works, and the Baltimore Office of Sustainability to equip homes with solar power and cool roofs. A February 2015 Solar Foundation study found that 1-in-78 new jobs created in the United States in 2014 was a solar job—nearly 20 times faster than the national employment growth rate. RISE will train 4,000 applicants from Baltimore’s most underserved communities to begin solar careers, including hands-on solar installation training, one-year paid fellowships, webinars, recruitment events and other opportunities for applicants.
06.30.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 30, 2015 CONTACT: Rachel MacKnight/Alanna Wellspeak 202-228-1122 (Mikulski) Sue Walitsky 202-224-4524/Tim Zink 410-962-4436 (Cardin) Trudy Perkins (Cummings) 202-225-4741 Jaime Lennon (Ruppersberger) 202-225-3061 Dan Jacobs (Sarbanes) 220-225-4016 MIKULSKI, CARDIN, CUMMINGS, RUPPERSBERGER AND SARBANES ANNOUNCE $5 MILLION IN FEDERAL FUNDING TO SUPPORT JOB TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT IN BALTIMORE Grants will offer Marylanders high-skills training to prepare them for long-term employment in key job sectors WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John P. Sarbanes (all D-Md.) today announced that the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) has awarded $5 million to the City of Baltimore to support job training programs for youth and young adults. The grant will launch the One Baltimore for Jobs Initiative, which is focused on increasing access to key job sectors, reducing barriers to employment and training, and supporting community-based projects. “I believe that in America, if you’re ready to work and want a job, you should have one,” said Senator Mikulski, Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds the DOL. “Grants like these are investments in our young people to help them acquire the skills, training and education they need to succeed. These funds in the federal checkbook will help Marylanders get the on-the-job training and know-how they need.” “This federal investment in Baltimore is a direct result of the Obama Administration working with members of Team Maryland over the last two months,” said Cardin, author of the BALTIMORE Act. “In the days and months since the unrest that gripped the city, I have consistently been asked by residents across Baltimore to take steps to ensure young people can find employment. This is a solid step towards making sure youth in Baltimore can enrich themselves and the city by earning a paycheck. I look forward to continuing to work with the administration and my colleagues in the Senate to bring more resources and jobs to Baltimore.” “This grant will not only help young people get jobs, it will also give them the training they need to succeed in careers with long-term growth potential,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am grateful to the Department of Labor and the Obama Administration for their commitment to Baltimore’s youth and for all of the assistance they have provided our City as we work to address our most urgent economic challenges.” "This is exactly the type of investment we should be making as our economy continues to recover. Without a job, you can't support your family, your community or your country," Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Decades of neglect and divestment in our urban communities have put well-paying jobs and educational opportunities out of reach for too many of our citizens,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “By providing job training and employment opportunities for young people, we can spur local economic activity and strengthen Baltimore’s communities.” These federal funds will allow the City of Baltimore’s Office of Employment Development to enhance and expand services that help long-term unemployed and dislocated workers prepare for jobs in the fields of health care, construction, technology, manufacturing, and transportation and logistics. The program will serve youth and young adults between the ages of 16-29 who have been disconnected from the labor force by opening new dialogues with employers and building partnerships with local organizations to create new employment opportunities. The Department of Labor has selected six other cities to receive similar grants based on high poverty and unemployment rates. The funds are available through the DOL’s Dislocated Worker National Reserve Account. ###
06.26.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Trudy Perkins (202) 225-4741 Cummings’ Statement on Supreme Court Decision in Same-Sex Marriage Case Washington, DC (June 26, 2015) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court decision declaring same-sex marriage legal in all 50 states: “I am elated about today’s Supreme Court decision. It so clearly and rightly upholds the principles of freedom and equality under the law that our nation embodies. I congratulate Mr. Obergefell and all of those who have fought so hard for this decision these many years. Today, our nation celebrates with you. Your courage and determination to defend your civil rights should be an example to us all as we work to protect and defend people’s rights across this great nation.” # # #
06.26.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Trudy Perkins (202) 225-4741 Cummings’ Statement on Supreme Court Decision in Fair Housing Case Washington, DC (June 26, 2015) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court decision in the case of Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs v. Inclusive Communities Project, Inc. “I applaud the decision issued by the Supreme Court in the case of Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs v. Inclusive Communities Project, Inc., which confirms that housing decisions that have a disparate impact on minorities are prohibited by the Fair Housing Act. “African Americans in Baltimore, including the thousands who were targeted in recent years by leading national banks to receive subprime loans and pay higher fees and rates solely on the basis of their race, know all too well the consequences both of explicitly racist and segregationist housing policies as well as of the ‘unconscious prejudice and disguised animus’ that continue to be intertwined in many housing policies today. “I agree with Justice Kennedy that the Fair Housing Act has an essential “continuing role in moving the Nation toward a more integrated society.” The ruling ensures that the Act’s provisions – including disparate impact – can continue to be used to identify and combat all forms of discriminatory housing policies whenever and wherever they occur.” # # #
06.24.2015	June 22, 2015FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Trudy Perkins (202) 225-4741 Cummings’ Statement on Meeting with Baltimore Police Officers Washington, DC (June 22, 2015) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement after meeting with a group of Baltimore Police Officers today. “We had a very productive meeting, and I am grateful that the officers were so willing to be candid about their views. I now have an even better understanding of the difficulties our officers face each day. I also appreciate the importance of ensuring we get them the clarity and support they need to do their jobs, and I look forward to working with the Department of Justice and others to achieve that goal. Tomorrow, I will be meeting with Gene Ryan, President of the Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 3, in what I anticipate to be another productive conversation. We need to hear the views of everyone involved if we truly want to chart a path forward for our community.” # # #
06.18.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 18, 2015 CONTACT: Trudy Perkins, 202-225-4741 Cummings’ Statement on Charleston, South Carolina Church Shooting Washington, DC (June 18, 2015) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement following the capture of the suspect in the shooting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina. “I commend law enforcement officials for their work to apprehend the suspect in the shooting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina. There are no words to express the anguish and shock felt by people across the nation from this massacre. As the son of two preachers, I know the sanctity and security the church offers for people of faith. It is unimaginable that someone would commit such an act of violence in a place of worship that resulted in the loss of nine lives.” “My prayers are with the families and loved ones of those who were killed and for the Charleston community as they begin the healing process.” # # #
06.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Trudy Perkins (202) 225-4741 Cummings Thanks First Responders in House Fire Washington, DC (June 3, 2015) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement following a fire at his Baltimore home: “I am grateful to the firefighters and first responders who acted swiftly to extinguish the fire at my home in Baltimore on Tuesday. The damage my house incurred would have been far worse had these public servants not responded so quickly. Thankfully, no one was home at the time of the fire and there were no injuries. My wife and I are in the process of restoring our home in the neighborhood we love. I truly appreciate all of those who have expressed their concern.” # # # #
06.01.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 29, 2015 CONTACTS: Trudy Perkins 202-225-4741 (Cummings) Rachel MacKnight/Alanna Wellspeak 202-228-1122 (Mikulski) Tim Zink 410-962-4436/Marty Welch 202-224-4524 (Cardin) Jaime Lennon 202-225-3061 (Ruppersberger) Daniel Jacobs 202-225-4016 (Sarbanes) CUMMINGS, MIKULSKI, CARDIN, RUPPERSBERGER, SARBANES JOIN SBA ADMINISTRATOR IN ANNOUNCING FEDERAL RESOURCES FOR BALTIMORE WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Elijah E. Cummings, U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, and U.S. Representatives C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) today joined Small Business Administration (SBA) Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet to announce federal resources from the SBA to assist small business owners that were affected by the unrest in Baltimore during the week of April 27. The SBA resources include additional funding for microloans and PRIME grants, technical assistance and government contracting emphasis, an increase for entrepreneurial development funding, and a targeted push to bring high-tech innovation to Baltimore. “I thank Administrator Contreras-Sweet for the SBA’s immediate response and commitment to helping Baltimore businesses recover after the unrest in our city,” Congressman Cummings said. “Strong local businesses create strong communities by providing jobs and access to the goods and services that residents need to care for their families. The funding for grants, loans, and technical assistance, will help our businesses re-open their doors and continue to serve our community. “We’ve got to work together and not just do it with platitudes,” Senator Mikulski said. “The neighborhoods are crying out for it. People who are counting on us need to have a government on their side and a real opportunity ladder based on hard work. That’s what this assistance from the SBA is about – keeping businesses open and opportunity growing.” "With hundreds of businesses harmed by rioting and tens of millions of dollars in expenses and lost economic activity in Baltimore, it is essential that the city receives strong support from federal agencies like the SBA," said Senator Cardin, a senior member of the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee. "In recent meetings with Team Maryland at the White House, the Obama Administration expressed its unwavering support to Baltimore's recovery efforts, and today's announcement underscores that commitment. We applaud the SBA and Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet for acting swiftly to help our community." "The businesses that will benefit from these loans are the heart and soul of the community – not only do they provide valuable goods and services, they provide invaluable jobs,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “For many small firms, the SBA may be the only possible source of the capital needed to reopen their doors." “When it comes to providing jobs, goods and services to the people of Baltimore, small businesses play an integral role,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “The resources offered by the SBA will not only help small businesses in Baltimore rebuild, but also help strengthen our city and its economy.” The SBA has already set up Assistance Operations Centers for small businesses affected by the unrest to answer questions about the disaster loan program and help individuals complete their applications. For more information about the SBA's Disaster Loan Program, visit www.sba.gov/disaster. ###
05.26.2015	For Immediate Release May 22, 2015 CONTACT: Trudy Perkins - (Cummings) – 202-225-4741 Cummings, Maryland Delegation Urge Hogan to Move Forward with Red and Purple Lines Washington, DC – Today Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined U.S. Senators Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin and Representatives Steny Hoyer, Chris Van Hollen, Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes, Donna Edwards, and John Delaney (all D-MD) in sending a letter to Maryland Governor Larry Hogan reiterating their unified support for the Red and Purple Lines in Maryland. “Both systems will create needed transit connections between population centers and employment, reduce congestion in area roadways, and foster community and economic development,” the Members wrote. “Maryland should not squander our advantaged position in this competitive fight for funding. We urge you to move expeditiously to finalize plans for the Red and Purple Lines and bring Maryland the economic benefits and jobs they will provide.” The full text of the letter is below: May 22, 2015 Governor Larry Hogan 100 State Circle Annapolis, Maryland 21401 Dear Governor Hogan, We write to reiterate our unified support for the Red and Purple Lines in Maryland and continued commitment to ensuring the success of these critical projects. Both systems will create needed transit connections between population centers and employment, reduce congestion in area roadways, and foster community and economic development. With increasing numbers of employers, including the federal government, listing access to transit among desired assets for their facilities, robust transit networks in the Baltimore and Washington regions will make Maryland a more attractive location. We appreciate that your Administration has undertaken a thorough examination of these projects, including discussions with the local leaders who have put extensive effort into their planning and development. Local governments in the City of Baltimore, Baltimore County, Prince George’s County, and Montgomery County, have already committed resources to help ensure the success of these projects, and they are invested in their progress. Additionally, as Representatives of the Greater Baltimore and Washington regions, we have worked with our constituent communities to refine these projects, and continue to lend our support to that effort. As you know, we have also secured access to federal funding in a difficult fiscal climate. If these funds - $100 million for each project in Fiscal Year 2015 and up to $900 million each for full construction - are not spent on the Purple and Red Lines, they will not be available for other projects in Maryland. However, this opportunity will not last forever. Other states throughout the country are eager to fund transit projects to bring economic opportunity to their residents. Maryland should not squander our advantaged position in this competitive fight for funding. We urge you to move expeditiously to finalize plans for the Red and Purple Lines and bring Maryland the economic benefits and jobs they will provide. We stand ready to work with you to realize the full potential of these critical transit lines. Sincerely, Barbara A. Mikulski United States Senator Benjamin L. Cardin United States Senator Steny H. Hoyer Member of Congress Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress Chris Van Hollen Member of Congress C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Member of Congress John P. Sarbanes Member of Congress Donna F. Edwards Member of Congress John K. Delaney Member of Congress ###
05.21.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 21, 2015 CONTACTS: Rachel MacKnight/Alanna Wellspeak 202-228-1122 (Mikulski) Sue Walitsky 202-224-4524/Tim Zink 410-962-4436 (Cardin) Trudy Perkins 202-225-4741 (Cummings) MIKULSKI, CARDIN, CUMMINGS MEET WITH KEY BALTIMORE CITY AND OBAMA ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS TO DISCUSS SHORT- AND LONG-TERM ISSUES FACING BALTIMORE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, together with U.S. Representative Elijah Cummings (all D-Md.) today met with Valerie Jarrett and other key Obama Administration, officials as well as Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake and Baltimore City officials to discuss ways the Administration can continue to serve as an active partner in supporting local priorities, including jobs, economic growth, education, housing and law-enforcement. “Ever since April 21st, I’ve been in communication with the White House, who has been tremendously responsive,” Senator Mikulski said. “This meeting was part of an ongoing conversation with the Administration about how they can help with immediate issues like summer programs, and long-term issues like criminal justice reform, jobs, education, housing, mental health care and more. They had excellent ideas. I look forward to working with them as we deliver much-needed resources and implement reforms to improve the lives and expand opportunities for everyone in Baltimore.” “I thank President Obama for making Baltimore a top priority. Team Maryland is committed to working with the White House and Cabinet agencies to ensure that the tools and resources outlined today -- from improving housing and increasing quality jobs, to supporting our schools and small businesses, to providing citizens with second chances and expanding programs to rebuild the trust between neighborhoods and law enforcement -- are brought to bear in Baltimore as a national model for the restoration of hope and opportunity in our cities,” said Senator Cardin. “It is heartening to know that the very top leaders of the Obama Administration are helping Baltimore rebuild and heal the deep wounds that have been opened for so many in our community.” "I thank President Obama, Valerie Jarrett and the Administration for their unwavering commitment to ensuring Baltimore has access to the federal resources needed to rebuild," Congressman Cummings said. "This is a transformational moment for our city and I am certain that with the continued collaboration of our local, state, federal and private partners, Baltimore will rise and become a model for the nation." ###
05.20.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 20, 2015 CONTACT: Trudy Perkins (410) 685-9199 Cummings Receives Honorary Degree from Johns Hopkins University and Gives Commencement Address at Hopkins’ Peabody Institute Baltimore, MD (May 20, 2015) – THURSDAY, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings will receive an honorary doctoral degree from Johns Hopkins University during the school’s 139th Universitywide Commencement Ceremony. Other honorary degree recipients include William "Brit" Kirwan, chancellor of the University System of Maryland; Marin Alsop, music director of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra; Ed Catmull, president of Walt Disney and Pixar Animation Studios; Leon Fleisher, acclaimed pianist; Anthony Deering, chairman of Exeter Capital LLC; Lynn Deering, president of the Charlesmead Foundation; and Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Congressman Cummings has received 11 other honorary degrees from universities throughout the nation. Later that day, Congressman Cummings will give the commencement address at the Peabody Institute of the Johns Hopkins University. As one of America’s first and most prestigious conservatories of music, the Peabody Institute aims to educate the finest musicians from around the world. What: Cummings Receives Honorary Degree from Johns Hopkins University When: Thursday, May 21, 2015 at 9:30 AM Where: Johns Hopkins University Homewood Field 111 West University Pkwy, Baltimore, MD What: Cummings Gives Commencement Address at the Peabody Institute of the Johns Hopkins University When: Thursday, May 21, 2015 at 7:30 PM Where: Peabody Institute 1 East Mount Vernon Street, Baltimore, MD
05.19.2015	BIPARTISAN, BICAMERAL LEGISLATION TO ENSURE ALL FOREIGN MEDICAL SCHOOLS ARE HELD TO SAME STANDARDS 2013 investigation by Bloomberg Markets revealed offshore loophole that off-shore medical schools have been exploiting to access additional federal funding [WASHINGTON, D.C.] - U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Bill Cassidy (R-LA) joined U.S. Representatives Elijah Cummings (D-MD) and Michael Burgess (R-TX) today to introduce bipartisan, bicameral legislation that would save taxpayer dollars and protect students by closing a loophole that gives special treatment to a small number of medical schools in the Caribbean that, in 2012, took in more than $450 million in U.S. Department of Education Title IV funding – two-thirds of all Title IV dollars that go to foreign medical schools. The Foreign Medical School Accountability Fairness Act would require all foreign medical schools to meet the same minimum requirements. This simple fix would apply the following two requirements to all medical schools outside of the U.S. and Canada: at least 60% of the enrollment must be non-U.S. citizens or permanent residents and students must have at least a 75% pass rate on the U.S. Medical Licensing Exam. “A loophole in current law allows for-profit medical schools in the Caribbean to enroll large percentages of American students – and profit from hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars – without meeting the same quality standards of instruction as medical schools in the U.S. or the basic requirements of all other foreign medical schools,” said Senator Durbin. “Our bill to close that loophole has broad support among the U.S. medical school community and now is supported by members from both parties in both chambers. As Congress continues work on the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, I hope this bipartisan bill will be part of the discussion.” “There are reports that some foreign medical schools inappropriately use taxpayer dollars. By fixing a loophole, we can ensure these schools are held to the same standards as every other school,” said Senator Bill Cassidy M.D. “This is about leveling the playing field and improving student quality,” said Representative Burgess. “If medical schools outside the U.S. are going to receive federal money, they need to meet the standards of education those taxpayer dollars were meant to fund. We must close this loophole to disallow foreign schools from accessing huge amounts of federal dollars at the expense of education and doctor quality.” “I am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing this important piece of legislation that will close a loophole that has left students open to exploitation for too long,” said Congressman Cummings. “This bill would send a clear message to unscrupulous institutions that seek to target students for their financial aid while delivering substandard outcomes. Protecting students and taxpayer dollars is a bipartisan issue and Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle will not stand for substandard results.” A September 2013 investigative report in Bloomberg Markets highlighted two foreign medical schools – American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine (AUC) and Ross University School of Medicine – which admit hundreds of students, many of whom were rejected by U.S. medical colleges. According to the report, students at medical schools operating outside of the United States and Canada amass more student debt than those at medical schools in the United States. For example, graduates of the American University of the Caribbean have a median of $309,000 in federal student debt versus $180,000 for graduates of U.S. medical schools. These foreign medical schools are also much less successful ensuring students’ progress all the way through the program. The average attrition rate at U.S. medical schools is 3% while rates at for-profit foreign medical schools can be up to 26% or higher. Even if students do finish at these schools, with much more debt, they often have difficulty finding a residency – mandatory for actually practicing medicine in the United States. In 2015, foreign-trained, American graduates had a residency match rate of 53% compared to 94% of graduates of U.S. medical schools. They are even less likely to land a residency position the second time around.
05.13.2015	Cummings’ Statement on Amtrak Train Derailment Washington, DC (May 13, 2015) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, released the following statement today after a deadly Amtrak train derailment in Philadelphia, PA. “I offer my deepest condolences to the families of those killed in Tuesday’s train derailment and I am hopeful that those who suffered injuries will recover quickly. “The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) will conduct a thorough investigation into the cause of the crash and I look forward to receiving the results of the investigation. “While we do not yet know the cause of last night’s accident, we do know that there are stretches of the Northeast Corridor – particularly in urban corridors – that are very old and that have tight curves, low ceilings, and speed restrictions. In many areas, we are trying to provide rail service using 19th century infrastructure – and yet Republicans on the House Appropriations Committee have proposed cutting capital funding for Amtrak. “Rather than cutting funding for a service used by tens of millions of Americans every year, we should be expanding our investments and ensuring that Amtrak’s infrastructure is brought into a state of good repair and then updated to serve the needs of a 21st century ridership.” # # # #
05.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 8, 2015 CONTACT: Trudy Perkins (410) 685-9199 Cummings’ Statement Commending U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch for Opening “Pattern or Practice” Investigation into the Baltimore Police Department Baltimore, MD (May 8, 2015) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement after the Department of Justice announced it will open a “pattern or practice” investigation into the Baltimore Police Department: “I commend U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch and the Department of Justice (DOJ) Civil Rights Division for their decision. By agreeing to launch a formal ‘pattern or practice’ investigation into the Baltimore Police Department, the DOJ has reinforced its commitment to helping us get to the bottom of the breakdown in trust between the police and the community. I asked the Attorney General for this investigation last week, because I fully believe that with her continued support and the assistance of the DOJ, we will rebuild that trust and become the Baltimore I know we can be.” # # #
05.07.2015	UNITED STATES CONGRESS For Immediate Release May 7, 2015 Contact Jennifer Hoffman (Cummings): 202-226-5181 Lacey Rose (Warren): 202-224-2292 MEDIA ADVISORY Cummings and Warren to Hold “Middle Class Prosperity Project” Forum in Baltimore on Predatory Financial Practices and Economic Injustice WASHINGTON, D.C.—On Monday, May 11, 2015, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Senator Elizabeth Warren will hold the fifth in a series of congressional forums as part of the Middle Class Prosperity Project launched by the Members in February. The recent unrest in Baltimore following the death of Freddie Gray has brought renewed attention to the lack of economic opportunities and financial services in many urban areas and communities of color. More and more families, especially in the aftermath of the Great Recession, are finding their budgets stretched by wage stagnation, income volatility, and rising expenses that erode their savings and make it more difficult to plan for the future. This forum will examine how mainstream financial service providers are not fully meeting the needs of many in the middle class – and many who aspire to it – for basic banking services like check cashing services and small dollar loans. It will also examine how this market is often filled by “alternative” financial service providers that sometimes employ predatory practices to trap consumers in a cycle of high fees and debt. The roles of stakeholders – including mainstream institutions, alternative financial service providers, and the federal government – will be examined closely, and panelists will discuss steps to protect vulnerable communities from being further victimized. Ranking Member Cummings and Senator Warren launched the Middle Class Prosperity Project to examine the issues of greatest concern to the Middle Class and those who aspire to it. Previous forums have examined the stagnation in middle class wages, the conflicts of interest in financial retirement advice, and student debt. Ranking Member Elijah Cummings and Senator Elizabeth Warren co-host the Middle Class Prosperity Project Forum on “Access and Opportunity: Predatory Financial Practices and Economic Injustice” PANELISTS: Maynard Hurd, Vice President of Lending, Securityplus Federal Credit Union Robin McKinney, Director and Co-Founder, Maryland CASH Campaign Rachel Schneider, Senior Vice President, Center for Financial Services Innovation Mitria Wilson, Vice President of Government Affairs and Senior Counsel, Center for Responsible Lending WHEN: Monday, May 11, 2015 1 pm — 2:30 pm WHERE: University of Maryland Carey School of Law Ceremonial Courtroom 500 W. Baltimore Street Baltimore, MD 21201
05.07.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin together with Representatives Elijah E. Cummings, John Delaney, Donna F. Edwards, Steny Hoyer, Dutch Ruppersberger, John Sarbanes and Chris Van Hollen (all D-Md.) have sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch supporting the request made this week by Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake to have the Department of Justice (DOJ) Civil Rights Division open a federal “pattern or practice” investigation of the Baltimore Police Department (BPD). “By using your authority under 42 U.S.C. § 14141, you have the ability to help repair the public’s trust in the BPD and ensure the protection of our citizens’ constitutional rights. Such an investigation could address issues such as allegations of persistent patterns of police misconduct, use of excessive force, discriminatory policing or use of profiling, and improper stops, searches, or arrests. We would welcome a detailed report on the BPD along with recommendations to reform this critical agency in a timely manner,” the Members wrote. “We ask the Justice Department to continue its Collaborative Reform Initiative through the COPS Office that is providing technical assistance to the BPD. We also ask the Justice Department continue its criminal and civil rights investigation into the death of Baltimore resident Freddie Gray.” The letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch follows: May 7, 2015 The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch: We thank you for visiting Baltimore, Maryland, earlier this week during your first official trip since being sworn into office last week. We appreciated the meetings you held with members of the Congressional delegation, local officials, community leaders, and the family of Freddie Gray. We welcome the active engagement in Baltimore of officials from the Civil Rights Division, COPS (Community Oriented Policing Services) Office, and Community Relations Service. We write to strongly support the request made earlier today of Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake of Baltimore to have the Civil Rights Division open a federal “pattern or practice” investigation of the Baltimore Police Department (BPD). By using your authority under 42 U.S.C. § 14141, you have the ability to help repair the public’s trust in the BPD and ensure the protection of our citizens’ constitutional rights. Such an investigation could address issues such as allegations of persistent patterns of police misconduct, use of excessive force, discriminatory policing or use of profiling, and improper stops, searches, or arrests. We would welcome a detailed report on the BPD along with recommendations to reform this critical agency in a timely manner. We ask the Justice Department to continue its Collaborative Reform Initiative through the COPS Office that is providing technical assistance to the BPD. We also ask the Justice Department continue its criminal and civil rights investigation into the death of Baltimore resident Freddie Gray. Thank you again for your leadership on these issues and the personal attention and time you have devoted on behalf of the citizens of Baltimore. We stand ready to assist you in your efforts and look forward to working with you as you begin your tenure as Attorney General. Sincerely,
05.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 6, 2015 CONTACT: Trudy Perkins 410-685-9199 Cummings’ Statement Supporting Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake’s Call for a “Pattern or Practice” Investigation into the Baltimore Police Department Baltimore, MD (May 6, 2015) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement after Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake requested a Department of Justice “pattern or practice” investigation into the Baltimore Police Department: “I strongly support the Mayor’s request for a full Department of Justice (DOJ) ‘pattern or practice’ investigation into the Baltimore Police Department. When I spoke with U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch last week, I urged her to consider a full civil rights investigation of the Baltimore Police Department (BPD). While I still support ongoing DOJ efforts in Baltimore—including the collaborative review and the investigation into the circumstances of Freddie Gray’s death—I believe that it is time for the Civil Rights Division’s Special Litigation Section to conduct a full and formal investigation into the BPD.” “We must know whether there is a pattern or practice by the department that systemically violates people’s rights. Mr. Gray’s death is only the most recent case underscoring the need to examine our police department from top to bottom.” “We all should be determined to ensure that the BPD can become a model for the nation and that our officers are equipped to be the elite of the elite with regard to serving and protecting our community. This is a transformational moment for the City of Baltimore. However, we cannot have transformation without information.” "In the wake of the past several weeks, our city needs to heal, move forward, and rebuild. In order to do that, we cannot simply cover up the past. We must address any deeply-ingrained problems that plague our city. This means working to improve education, housing, and other policies that will help ensure the future of the next generation. This also means rebuilding trust and lines of communication between the police and the community.” “I support the Mayor’s call for a ‘pattern or practice’ investigation, and I am dedicated to doing what I can to continue to support the DOJ’s and Attorney General Lynch’s continued work in Baltimore.” # # #
04.28.2015	Cummings’ Statement on Meeting with U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch Baltimore, MD (April 28, 2015) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement after joining Senators Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin and Congressmen C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes on a teleconference with U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch to discuss the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) investigations into the Baltimore City Police Department. “This evening I had a very productive conversation with my colleagues in the Maryland Congressional Delegation and U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch. The Attorney General assured us that the DOJ investigations of the Baltimore City Police Department are ongoing and have her highest priority and attention. “I feel confident that the DOJ will conduct thorough investigations and that the findings will help provide answers to the many questions surrounding the death of Freddie Gray and the policies and practices of the Baltimore City Police Department.”
04.07.2015	Baltimore, MD (April 7 2015) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), issued the following statement on the death of University of Maryland Medical Center cardiologist Dr. Elijah Saunders. “I am deeply saddened by the loss of my friend, personal physician, and mentor, Dr. Elijah Saunders. He was a physician who truly cared about each of his patients and treated everyone from all walks of life with the same level of excellence and concern. As my personal physician for decades, Dr. Saunders consistently reminded me that my health must always be my first priority. “Throughout his career, Dr. Saunders was dedicated to achieving healthcare equality, with a special focus on the African American community. His passion was treating people with hypertension and teaching them about the dangers of this ‘silent killer.’ “Dr. Saunders was a lifelong teacher. He took great pride in helping to develop the skills of his medical interns. With patience and detailed instruction, he taught them how to examine a patient or review a medical report. He embraced the responsibility to train his students to help save lives. “A true giant has moved off the stage of life. I thank God for allowing Dr. Saunders to forever play a major role in my destiny and the destinies of the many lives he touched with his care and compassion.” # # #
03.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 2, 2015)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md-07) released the following statement in response to Senator Barbara Mikulski’s announcement that she will retire from the U.S. Senate after five terms in office. “Senator Barbara Mikulski is a giant in public service whose accomplishments speak for themselves. As the longest serving woman in the history of the Congress, she has set the standard for excellence that others may match but will never exceed. “Throughout her career, Senator Mikulski has been a voice for the voiceless and has doggedly fought to ensure that all people – regardless of their backgrounds or circumstances – can have access to all the American Dream has to offer. “I am deeply grateful for the leadership she has provided to our state’s delegation and for her mentorship to me throughout the years. “Senator Mikulski’s presence will be sorely missed on Capitol Hill, but her legacy will most assuredly live on in the lives of everyone she has fought for over the course of her decades of service to our state and our nation.” # # #
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON, Feb. 25 – Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) today introduced legislation to dramatically improve access to dental care. The Comprehensive Dental Reform Act would expand dental coverage through Medicare, Medicaid, the Affordable Care Act and the Department of Veterans Affairs, filling the gap for the more than 1 in 4 Americans who lack dental insurance. The bill was filed in the Senate and House on today’s 8th anniversary of the death of Deamonte Driver, a Maryland youth who died when a simple abscessed tooth caused an infection that spread to his brain. “Most people think of oral health and imagine whiter teeth or a straighter smile. What we learned from Deamonte is that oral health is an essential link to overall health,” said Cummings. “We can no longer afford to consider dental care as an optional service.” “We have a dental crisis in America. Tens of millions of Americans cannot afford to see a dentist or live in parts of the country where there are no dentists. Because untreated dental problems can have serious health consequences, we must ensure that people have access to care before it’s too late,” Sanders said. In addition to expanding dental coverage, the House and Senate bills would: • Address difficulties faced by the more than 47 million Americans who live in areas of the country lacking enough dentists to serve the population. • Address the shortage in dental care providers that accept Medicaid. • Expand National Health Services Corps scholarship and loan repayment programs to include dental care. • Authorize funding to increase access to dental services at clinics such as community health centers and school-based health centers. • Integrate oral health care with overall health care through additional support for programs to educate non-dental health professionals about oral health. • Authorize additional funding for oral health research. In the House of Representatives, Cummings’ bill is co-sponsored by Reps. Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.) and Charles B. Rangel (D-N.Y.) and Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton of Washington, D.C. Senate co-sponsors are Sens. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) and Ben Cardin (D-Md.). The bill is supported by more than 20 public health organizations, including the American Association of Public Health Dentistry, the American Dental Hygienists’ Association, the American Public Health Association, the Children’s Dental Health Project, Families USA, and the National Association of Community Health Centers. Contact: Trudy Perkins (Cummings) 202 225-4741 Michael Briggs (Sanders) 202 224-5141 # # #
02.05.2015	DURBIN, CUMMINGS INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO PUT COORDINATED FEDERAL OVERSIGHT OF FOR-PROFIT COLLEGE INDUSTRY INTO LAW Committee to improve enforcement of federal law and increase for-profit college accountability to students and taxpayers established by executive action last year [WASHINGTON, D.C.] – Assistant Senate Democratic Leader, U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) and U.S. Representative Elijah Cummings (D-MD), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform today introduced legislation that would put into law an interagency committee that is tasked with improving coordination in federal and state oversight of the for-profit college industry. In October, the Department of Education announced it would create an interagency oversight committee based on the Proprietary Education Oversight Coordination Improvement Act - introduced by Durbin, Cummings and U.S. Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) - which aimed to improve enforcement of federal laws and regulations while increasing accountability of for-profit colleges to students and taxpayers. Today’s legislation would codify those efforts and ensure the task force is providing useful information to policymakers and parents and students. “For many years, for-profit schools were allowed to operate one step ahead of the law.” said Durbin. “With so many agencies involved in these oversight efforts it is important that they are effectively working together to hold these schools accountable to taxpayers who often subsidize up to 90% or more of their operations and to students who ultimately are the victims of their schemes. Putting President Obama’s committee into law will give it additional authority to coordinate oversight and take action when necessary.” "Our legislation will streamline oversight of for-profit colleges to combat common deceptive practices and help students get the high quality education they pay for and expect," said Cummings. "I am pleased the Department of Education has already taken some action, but Congress must do more to protect these students and the investments taxpayers are making in these schools." The Durbin-Cummings bill would require the formation of an interagency committee - the Proprietary Education Oversight Coordination Committee - made up of representatives from the following agencies: the Department of Education; the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; the Department of Justice; the Securities and Exchange Commission; the Department of Defense; the Department of Veterans Affairs; the Federal Trade Commission; the Department of Labor and the Internal Revenue Service. The Proprietary Education Oversight Coordination Improvement Act requires the committee to: · Hold quarterly meetings as a group and annual meetings with State Attorneys General to coordinate federal and state activities related to for-profit school oversight; · Publish a whole-of-government report on the for-profit college industry in order to compile, in one place, student complaints, data about student outcomes and financial information related to executive compensation, marketing and other metrics; · Publish a warning list of schools that have engaged in illegal activities or for which there is sufficient evidence of widespread or systemic abusive, unethical, fraudulent or predatory practices. The for-profit college industry receives more than $25 billion in federal dollars which is enough funding to make it the ninth largest federal agency. While they enroll only about 10% of all college students, they take in 20% of the Department of Education’s federal student aid funds and account for a disproportionate 44% of student loan defaults. Organizations supporting today’s legislation include: the United States Student Association, the American Federation of Teachers, the National Education Association, the National Association for College Admissions Counseling, VetJobs and Veterans Education Success. Durbin has been working since 2009 to protect students from the predatory practices of the for-profit college industry. In November 2013, he introduced legislation in the Senate that would help put an end to the for-profit industry’s predatory marketing campaigns and aggressive recruiting of veterans, servicemembers and their families. The Protecting Our Students and Taxpayers (POST) Act, which U.S. Representative Steve Cohen (D-TN) introduced in the House of Representatives, would eliminate the loophole that allows these publicly traded companies to receive more than 90% of their revenue from the federal government. Cummings has done significant work to investigate the practices of for-profit colleges, including an investigation into the compensation packages of top executives at these institutions. Cummings requested copies of compensation agreements for senior executives at 13 for-profit schools to determine whether salaries, bonuses, and other compensation are appropriately tied to the performance of students they educate. -30-
02.04.2015	Below are remarks as prepared for delivery to the National Treasury Employee Union's 2015 Annual Legislative Conference in Washington, DC. Statement Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings NTEU’s Annual Legislative Conference 2015 February 4, 2015 I thank my good friend, President Colleen Kelley, for your graciousness in inviting me here today to speak at the Annual Legislative Conference of the National Treasury Employees Union. I also thank you for your incredible work in representing the vital interests of 150,000 federal employee members in 31 agencies. I am pleased to be joining a fellow Member and colleague in the People’s House and the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Congressman Jason Chaffetz, the new Chairman of that Committee. I congratulate you, Mr. Chaffetz, on your appointment. I want to thank the nearly 400 NTEU members who are in the audience, some of whom have traveled long distances to be here today. I am humbled and impressed by your commitment to public service and to doing good for the American people. I am grateful for the important work that each of you does everyday for your fellow citizens. You are the dedicated men and women who provide vital services to Americans, protect our borders, and ensure that our food and drugs are safe. I am honored to be speaking with you today to discuss important legislative issues that already have, and may in the future, impact your lives. Past Assaults on Federal Workers These past few years have been difficult for federal workers. As part of the federal government’s efforts to reduce the deficit and pay for unemployment benefits for millions of workers, federal employees have had to sacrifice nearly $140 billion as a result of a three-year pay freeze and pay cuts in the form of increased retirement contributions for newly hired employees. They also had to endure sequestration cuts and furloughs and a sixteen-day government shutdown. Legislation also required budget cuts, pay freeze extensions, arbitrary workforce cuts, increases in retirement contributions, decreases in retirement benefits, and the elimination of federal pensions. Budget cuts have caused the federal government to eliminate jobs for the last three years in a row. For 2014, the government lost 19,000 jobs, not including postal jobs. Continued job losses in the federal government may endanger agency missions and disrupt vital services to the public. These events, as well as relentless attacks on the pay and benefits of federal workers, have caused federal workforce morale to drop to historic lows. The Partnership for Public Service found that worker morale and engagement fell each of the last four years to an all-time low. Satisfied and engaged federal workers are critical to achieving government missions and delivering vital public services. Congress cannot continue to target the federal workforce to achieve deficit reduction without causing serious consequences. Our government and the American people need and deserve a motivated and engaged federal workforce. What to Expect in the 114th Congress We know what happened to federal workers in the last Congress, but what can they expect in this Congress? With all due respect to my friend and colleague from Utah, unfortunately, I believe we will see an unprecedented and extremely damaging assault by congressional Republicans to reduce worker pay, gut their due process protections, and slash the benefits that they and their families rely on every single day. I fear that much of that kind of legislation will move through the Oversight Committee, but I am committed to defending federal workers to the best of my ability. Budget Cuts/Attrition For example, we will likely see the introduction of bills to reduce the size of the federal workforce. It’s still early in the new Congress, but bills have already been introduced that would cut the government budget by up to 5%. Other bills would cut the federal workforce by 10% through attrition and slash the civilian defense workforce by 15%. Retirement Benefits Sequestration budget cuts are scheduled to return for fiscal year 2016, unless Congress modifies them. I am concerned that House Republicans will propose increasing the budget cap for the Department of Defense and then offset this increase with even deeper cuts in non-defense agency budgets. They will likely use a Reconciliation bill as the vehicle for finding savings, which may include provisions for decreasing retirement benefits. We could also see legislation that would eliminate federal pensions for new hires. Weakening of Due Process Protections Last year, Congress passed, and the President signed, a bill that gave the VA Secretary greater authority to fire executives without notice or an opportunity to respond to charges. We may see legislation that would apply these provisions to rank-and-file employees government wide. I think we need to be very careful when we are considering legislation that would reduce due process rights for federal workers. These due process protections exist for a reason. They date back to 1883 when our government was trying to address abuses and corruption in the federal government. Without the protections of the Pendleton Act and other statutes, there is a very real risk of politicizing our federal workforce, returning our civil service back to a system of patronage. Some propose making federal employees “at will” employees. They argue that the federal personnel system is too protective of employee rights, making it difficult to get rid of poor performers. They claim that we need to revise the law. My response is that the tools to deal with poor performers are there, but that managers are not using them. In a 2009 study of how the federal government addresses poor performers, the Merit Systems Protection Board, concluded that failure to address poor performance lies with managers: “Addressing poor performance by merely changing a law that sets forth how to demote or remove a poor performer is not a feasible solution. Rather, the Government must concentrate on managing the performance of its employee.” Pay-for Performance Many of my Republican colleagues support a transition from the General Schedule system to a pay-for-performance system. One of the key attributes of the GS system is that it helps ensure that people get “equal work for equal pay.” I fully embrace this principle. One of the indications that the GS system is working is data from the Office of Personnel Management showing that the gender pay gap has shrunk dramatically over the past 20 years, from 30% to 11%. Another thing I want to point out about pay-for-performance is that the Defense Department already tried implementing it through the “National Security Personnel System,” but this system failed. Congress repealed the authority because of lack of transparency, bias, and subjectivity in performance ratings. FEHBP Last Congress, legislation to change the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program included proposals to convert the government contribution portion of the premium costs into a voucher. As you know, vouchers could be used to shift the burden of medical costs onto employees, especially if they are indexed to the Consumer Price Index and not the medical inflation rate, which is often much higher. Oversight Committee Priorities We may also see legislation that would require agencies to fire federal employees who are delinquent on their taxes. But this legislation would actually be counterproductive. Instead of enabling the payment of bills, federal employees terminated from their jobs would be unable to do so. My priorities My priority is to do whatever I can to help federal workers obtain fair compensation and meaningful pay raises. The federal workforce is lagging far behind the private sector in pay increases. In fact, your pay is not even keeping pace with the growth of inflation. That is unacceptable. President Obama’s Budget for next year recommends a 1.3% pay raise for federal employees. I believe this is too low. I am a cosponsor with Representative Connolly of the FAIR Act which would raise federal worker pay by 3.8%. I will also continue to strongly support whistleblower protections. We need to be ever vigilant in protecting the rights of the brave men and women who speak out about waste, fraud, abuse, and threats to health and safety. This past September, I filed an amicus brief—along with Senators Grassley and Wyden, and Congressmen Issa, Farenthold and Lynch—in support of whistleblower Robert MacLean’s appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court. Mr. MacLean was a former air marshal with the Transportation Security Administration who was terminated for publicly disclosing that the agency planned on grounding air marshals from long distance flights due to budget constraints and despite knowledge of imminent Al Qaeda attacks. I am pleased to report that the Supreme Court recently ruled in Mr. MacLean’s favor. I am also working on introducing legislation that would strengthen enforcement of antidiscrimination and whistleblower retaliation laws. This is a top priority for me. Congress needs to devote resources and attention to strengthening recruitment and retention in the federal government. We need to attract the best and the brightest, otherwise we will be in danger of making federal government the employer of last resort. We also need to guard against challenges to merit systems principles and due process rights. We need to ensure that the federal hiring process is as open, fair, and competitive as it should be. I want to thank you all for the opportunity to share my thoughts about the work and activities my colleagues and I will focus on in this new Congress. ###
01.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Top Democrat on the Select Committee on Benghazi, sent a letter to Chairman Trey Gowdy identifying inaccuracies in his letter responding to Democrats’ grave concerns about being excluded from participating fully in the investigation. Cummings explained that Gowdy’s letter does not address the fundamental concern of Democratic Members, which is that Republicans have excluded Democrats from investigative interviews with potential witnesses, and later downplayed the significance of those interviews when they contradicted a preconceived political narrative. Gowdy’s letter does not explain why he excluded Democrats from these interviews, particularly when witnesses were willing to speak with Democrats all along. Gowdy’s proposed rules would allow this partisan tactic to continue. To see the full release and letter, visit the Select Committee on Benghazi Minority site.
01.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON— Over the past several months, Democratic Members of the House Select Committee on Benghazi have sent multiple letters to Chairman Trey Gowdy expressing grave concerns about the partisan manner in which the Select Committee has been proceeding. Specifically, Republicans have held secret meetings with witnesses and withheld or downplayed information that undermines allegations the Committee is investigating. Read the letter dated November, 24, 2014 letter here and January 23, 2015 letter here. To see the full release, visit the Select Committee on Benghazi Minority site.
01.27.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Washington, D.C. (Jan. 26, 2015)—Today, Reps. Elijah E. Cummings, John J. Conyers Jr., and Bennie G. Thompson, Ranking Members of the House Committees on Oversight and Government Reform, the Judiciary, and Homeland Security respectively, and 53 additional Members sent a letter to President Obama asking that he renew the request he made in last year’s budget proposal to fully fund the National Violent Death Reporting System (NVDRS), which is operated by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). NVDRS provides states and communities with funding to track the causes of violent deaths, including those resulting from “legal intervention” by law enforcement authorities. The NVDRS also tracks the race of victims, the causes of injuries, and the relationship of victims to their suspected killers. To see the full release, visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Minority site.
01.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Jan. 22, 2015)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement after the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and the Maryland Attorney General required Wells Fargo and JPMorgan to pay $24 million and $600,000, respectively, in civil penalties for illegal mortgage kickbacks. Visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Minority to see the full statement.
01.22.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Jan. 22, 2015)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement commending Governor Larry Hogan for including funds for construction of the Red Line in his first State budget proposal: “I am pleased that Governor Hogan has included funding in the State budget to enable us to pursue the Red Line. This is an extraordinary opportunity to make a critical investment in Baltimore that may never come again — creating thousands of jobs and spurring major economic growth. “Thanks to the hard work of Sen. Mikulski and the entire Baltimore-area delegation, we have the opportunity to receive $100 million in federal funds for the Red Line just this year — and a total of $900 million in federal funds for the construction of the system — if Maryland just implements plans already in place. It is essential that we all work together to bring this once-in-a-lifetime project to fruition.” ###
01.21.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Washington, D.C. (Jan. 20, 2015)—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement after the 2014 State of the Union Address: “One of the greatest threats facing our nation is the shrinking middle class. We cannot continue to be the land of opportunity if those aspiring to the middle class are unable to reach it, and I applaud the President’s attention to this crisis. “President Obama has worked hard to bring our economy back from the Great Recession, and his leadership has led to an unemployment rate lower than 6% for the first time since 2008 — even in the face of GOP obstruction. Most of those gains, however, have only been felt on Wall Street and among the nation’s top earners. “The President’s plan to provide an additional tax credit to middle class families will ensure that they too feel the benefit of a resurgent U.S. economy in their wallets. And his plans to give qualified students the ability to enroll in community colleges free of cost will strengthen one of the most important ladders into the middle class — higher education. “The President’s remarks covered a number of other issues of great importance to our country, domestically and internationally, but there are two that deserve intense scrutiny by the White House and Congress in the coming months. “We must focus on reforming our criminal justice system. Recent events in Ferguson, Staten Island, and elsewhere have shaken the American people’s trust not just in the police who keep our streets safe, but in the judicial process that holds them accountable. We need to continue the national dialogue about how we restore that trust, and we need attention from all levels of government to craft policies that promote community engagement with law enforcement and accountability for officers. “We must also focus on protecting American consumers from the unprecedented and increasing number of data breaches in both the public and private sectors. The President’s legislative proposals are important first steps, but we need additional Congressional oversight — something I will continue to call for in the 114th Congress. “I look forward to working with President Obama and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on all of these priorities in the coming months.”
01.16.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Team Maryland Urges Support for Red and Purple Line Projects "The entire Baltimore and Greater Washington area Congressional Delegations have fought hard to ensure that federal funds are available to support the Red and Purple Lines." Washington, D.C. (Jan. 15, 2015)—Today, Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, and Representatives Elijah E. Cummings, Steny H. Hoyer, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Chris Van Hollen, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, and John K. Delaney (all D-MD) joined to send a letter to Governor-elect Larry Hogan expressing their strong support for the planned Red Line and Greater Washington Purple Line transit projects. “We know that you share our commitment to strengthening Maryland’s economy and ensuring that the people of Maryland have access to infrastructure they need to excel in their lives, and we believe construction of the Red and Purple Lines is central to achieving these priorities,” the Members wrote. The recently passed Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015 (Public Law 113-235) includes the first installment of federal funding for the Red and Purple Lines, $100 million for each project. Maryland could receive up to $900 million for each transit project over the entire construction period if Maryland signs full funding agreements for each project by the end of September as currently planned. Click here and see below for the full letter. January 15, 2015 Governor-Elect Larry Hogan Transition Office Tawes State Office Building 580 Taylor Ave Annapolis, MD 21401 Dear Governor-Elect Hogan: We write today to express our strong support for the Baltimore Red Line and Greater Washington Purple Line planned transit projects. We know you share our commitment to strengthening Maryland’s economy and ensuring that the people of Maryland have access to infrastructure they need to excel in their lives, and we believe construction of the Red and Purple Lines is central to achieving these priorities. The Red Line is a proposed 14.1-mile light rail system that would link Baltimore’s East and West sides with the heart of downtown. With 19 stations – including at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Woodlawn, the West Baltimore MARC Station, the Inner Harbor and the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center – this transit system will significantly improve mobility in Baltimore, and will be a critical catalyst for economic growth and job creation throughout the city. Like the Red Line, the Purple Line – a 16-mile east-west transit line linking New Carrollton and Bethesda – will also revitalize community development, create employment opportunities, and generate a more rapid and reliable transit system. The project would provide easier access to the Metro lines, commuter rail, and local bus services. Both the Purple Line and the Red Line will help connect people to jobs, major economic centers, and key activity areas in the region – bolstering economic development and creating more efficient transportation systems. According to a study completed by the Jacob France Institute at the University of Baltimore’s Merrick School of Business, construction of the Red Line would generate more than $2 billion in economic activity during the construction period alone, while creating more than 9,000 construction and related jobs. The Purple Line is expected to create 6,300 regional jobs during the six-year construction period. The State of Maryland and dozens of local agencies and entities have spent years crafting the policies and goals needed to ensure that the projects benefit local communities and directly support Maryland’s most critical economic development goals. Recognizing the significance of these projects, we secured the first installment of federal funding for both the Red and Purple Lines in the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015 (Public Law 113-235). If Maryland signs full funding grant agreements for each project with the Federal Transit Administration by the end of this September as currently planned, the Red Line and the Purple Line will each receive $100 million in federal funding this fiscal year, and up to $900 million in federal funding over the entire construction period. The entire Baltimore and Greater Washington area Congressional delegations have fought hard to ensure that federal funds are available to support the Red and Purple Lines, and we have worked closely with State and local leaders to put in place the many components needed to qualify the projects for federal funding. This is truly an historic opportunity that may never come again, and we look forward to working with you to finalize plans for the Red and Purple Lines in order to ensure that Maryland benefits from the better future these projects will create. Sincerely, Barbara A. Mikulski Benjamin L. Cardin United States Senator United States Senator Elijah E. Cummings Steny H. Hoyer Member of Congress Member of Congress C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Chris Van Hollen Member of Congress Member of Congress John P. Sarbanes Donna F. Edwards Member of Congress Member of Congress John K. Delaney Member of Congress
12.23.2014	Washington, D.C. (Dec. 23, 2014)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to the Chairman and CEO of Sony Pictures Entertainment requesting information about a devastating cyber attack in which hackers believed to be from North Korea stole soon-to-be-released films and the personal information of over 47,000 current and former employees, including their social security numbers and healthcare records. To read the full release and letter, visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform minority.
12.23.2014	Washington, D.C. (Dec. 22, 2014)—Today, Reps. Jason Chaffetz and Elijah E. Cummings, the Chairman-Elect and top Democrat of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson requesting a briefing on the agency’s plans to enhance the fence around the White House compound. To read the full release and letter, visit the the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform minority.
12.23.2014	Washington, D.C.(Dec. 18, 2014) – Today, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman-elect Jason Chaffetz (R – UT), and current Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D – MD), released a statement in response to a review conducted by an independent panel appointed by the Department of Homeland Security on recent security breaches within the Secret Service. To read the full statement, visit the the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform minority.
12.11.2014	Washington, D.C. (Dec. 11, 2014)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement regarding a protest by Congressional staff in the aftermath of the recent grand jury decisions in Ferguson, MO and Staten Island, NY. To read the full statement, visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Democrats.
12.11.2014	For Immediate Release: Washington, D.C. (Dec. 11, 2014)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Rep. Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, and Rep. Gwen Moore led 26 Members requesting that the Inspector General of the Federal Housing Finance Agency review Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s oversight of companies contracted to maintain foreclosed properties. To see the full release and letter, visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Democrats.
12.11.2014	For Immediate Release: Washington, D.C. (Dec. 11, 2014)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. Joaquín Castro sent a letter to the U.S. Comptroller General requesting that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) expand their examination of the impacts of state voter identification laws on the ability of American citizens to exercise their right to vote. To see the full release and letter visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Democrats.
12.10.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Dec. 10, 2015)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement strongly condemning provisions in the 2015 Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act that would weaken protections enacted in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act: To see the full release, visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Democrats.
12.09.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Dec. 9, 2014) — Today, Reps. Elijah E. Cummings, John Conyers Jr., and Bennie G. Thompson, Ranking Members of the House Committees on Oversight and Government Reform, the Judiciary, and Homeland Security respectively, requested a series of in-depth hearings to examine issues raised by the deaths of Eric Garner, Michael Brown, and others, as well as incidents that followed these killings. For the full release and the letter, visit the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Democrat's website.
12.03.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: BALTIMORE, MD (Dec. 3, 2014) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) released the following statement after a grand jury in Staten Island, NY announced a decision not to charge police officer Daniel Pantaleo in the death of unarmed Eric Garner in July of this year: “My heart aches for the Garner family and for an entire community that feels justice has not been served after another Black man’s death at the hands of law enforcement. “We know that Officer Pantaleo used a chokehold banned by the New York Police Department specifically because of the risk it poses; that a medical examiner ruled that Mr. Garner’s death was a homicide; and that a video exists documenting the entire confrontation, including Mr. Garner’s desperate last breaths. “Given what we know, it’s difficult to understand how an arrest over allegations of illegally sold cigarettes had to result in Mr. Garner’s death. “Our justice system is plagued by police forces disconnected from the communities they serve. The result is entire portions of the population that feel threatened by the very law enforcement officials charged with their safety. Steps like body cameras will be helpful in beginning to address these systemic problems, but with cases like Mr. Garner’s, it is increasingly clear that the solutions will require us to reconsider our entire approach. We have to think more broadly and deeply about the changes we have to make in our system, and now is the time to act on those changes.” Following the shooting death of unarmed teenager Michael Brown by Ferguson, MO police officer Darren Wilson in August, Cummings joined members of the Congressional Black Caucus and more than 100 civic, corporate, and faith leaders in sending a letter to President Obama calling for drastic changes in police training and accountability. Click here to read that letter.
11.24.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE BALTIMORE, MD (Nov. 24, 2014) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), released the following statement after a grand jury in Missouri announced a decision not to indict Ferguson Police Officer Darren Wilson for the shooting of unarmed teenager Michael Brown: “I am disappointed in the grand jury’s decision not to indict Officer Wilson for taking the life of Michael Brown; however, we must respect that decision. The Department of Justice will continue its review of this incident and the entire Ferguson Police Department, and I am confident that investigation will bring us closer to the justice that Brown’s family and the entire Ferguson community deserve. “We must all remember that this is first and foremost about the death of a young man, and the loss of a bright future. While I understand the emotions that have brought protestors into the streets, our goal now should be preventing cases like this one from ever happening again by encouraging dialogue with the police forces sworn to protect our communities and transforming the practices and culture that led to the shooting." ###
11.23.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: BALTIMORE, MD (Nov. 23, 2014) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), issued the following statement on the death of four term Washington, DC Mayor Marion Barry Jr.: “Mayor Barry made an indelible impact on our nation’s capital during his time as Mayor, striving to lift those without means to better lives. His efforts to offer economic opportunities to the city’s poorest residents, and tireless work to bring minorities into its governance helped to build the capital we know today. “Mayor Berry made countless contributions to the civil rights movement, to building the city’s infrastructure, and to developing an inclusive government. That impact will remain for generations yet unborn. My prayers are with his family at this difficult time.” ###
11.03.2014	For Immediate Release: BALTIMORE, MD (Oct. 30, 2014) — On Wednesday, October 29, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) delivered keynote remarks at APL Maritime’s Senior Management Conference, and received an award recognizing his service to the maritime industry. “The U.S. flagged ocean going fleet is vital to our nation’s security, as is ensuring the future of that fleet both through federal policy and support for the next generation of maritime workers,” said Cummings. “I’m honored to be recognized by APL Maritime, and I look forward to working with them and other stakeholders to sustain and strengthen the U.S. maritime industry.” APL Maritime is the world’s seventh largest ocean carrier, providing container transport throughout an international shipping network. The conference brought together senior leadership of APL, including senior captains, engineers and support staff, for discussions about the changing global economy, and the enduring importance of the maritime industry. Cummings was honored for his continued support of the U.S. flagged fleet, especially during his tenure as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. ###
10.30.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Harkin, Durbin, Murphy, Cummings on Department of Education's Final Gainful Employment Rule and For-Profit Task Force Announcement WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA), Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Chris Murphy (D-CT), and Representative Elijah Cummings (D-MD) today released the following statement regarding the Department of Education’s final gainful employment rule: “As Chairman of the HELP Committee, I led a two-year investigation to determine if students attending for-profit colleges were being offered a path to gainful employment as required by law,” Harkin said.‎ “The investigation showed that high-cost, for-profit colleges are leaving millions of students with high debt but questionable earning power, and that more than half of those students were left with no degree or diploma and no improved prospect of gainful employment. Today’s action by the Department of Education seeks to address the first problem, but does little to ensure that colleges stop offering poor quality programs where most of the students drop out. While I commend the Administration for finalizing this rule that holds accountable those career education programs that graduate students with high debt without the earning power to pay it, this rule does nothing to stop schools from offering, and our most at-risk students from enrolling in, programs where most students fail and default. Continued Harkin, “This rule is a first step, but much more needs to be done to ensure that colleges put the interest of students above shareholders. While this rule and the decision to formalize a task force are steps in the right direction, Congress must strengthen the laws on the books to better protect students and taxpayers. In the meantime, I urge the Administration to use all available resources at hand to preserve the integrity of our federal student financial aid system.” “The collapse of Corinthian Colleges was the canary in the coal mine for the for-profit college industry. I hope today’s announcement of a federal task force on for-profit colleges, like the one we proposed in our legislation, signals a new level of commitment from this Administration to take on serious oversight of this industry before another company reaches the breaking point,” said Durbin, author of the Proprietary Education Oversight Coordination Improvement Act. “Information sharing and better coordination between federal agencies and state attorneys general will help regulators prevent the ongoing fraudulent and abusive practices of this industry. While not as strong as I would have written, the final gainful employment rule, along with measures like the task force, will bring badly needed additional scrutiny to this industry.” “For-profit colleges need to wake up and start thinking as much about the quality of education they deliver as they do about their profits,” said Murphy. “As a member of the HELP Committee, I have worked with the Chairman and Senator Durbin to ensure that students get value for the money that they pay. This rule is a step in the right direction, but a lot more needs to be done, especially to prevent schools from offering programs that are designed to create profits for investors instead of real job skills for students. Predatory, profit-first practices are far too rampant within the industry, and the federal government can’t sit back and let for-profit colleges get away with these practices. This step toward accountability and oversight is a welcome change, but Congress needs to assure it's only a first step.” “For-profit colleges should prepare students for success in their careers and provide a high-quality education, not just boost profits for their shareholders,” Cummings said. "When I attended the final rulemaking session for this rule, I emphasized the importance of firm but fair oversight, and while today's rule represents progress, it does not go far enough. These companies are quick to pat themselves on the back for their professed support of low-income and minority students but all too often send them out the door with huge debt, no degree and diminished hope for what they thought was a bright future. “I applaud the Department of Education for taking action to shine a light on this sector, and I am hopeful that the task force also announced today will foster best practices and provide clarity for all of these schools and those that attend them,” Cummings added. “Stronger oversight of for-profit colleges is long overdue.” Harkin, as Chairman of the HELP Committee, released a report on the findings of a two-year investigation of the for-profit higher education industry, which would be subject to the gainful employment rule along with other career training programs. The 2012 report showed that for-profit colleges accounted for approximately 12 percent of students, yet consumed almost 25 percent of the federal financial aid budget and accounted for almost half of all student loan defaults. Durbin and Harkin have been working together since 2009 to protect students from the predatory practices of the for-profit college industry. In November 2013, they reintroduced legislation in the Senate that would help put an end to the for-profit industry’s predatory marketing campaigns and aggressive recruiting of veterans, servicemembers and their families. The Protecting Our Students and Taxpayers (POST) Act, which U.S. Representative Steve Cohen (D-TN) introduced in the House of Representatives, would eliminate the loophole that allows these publicly traded companies to receive more than 90% of their revenue from the federal government. More information on that legislation can be found HERE. As Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Cummings has worked diligently to encourage better protections and educational outcomes for students at these institutions, including launching an investigation into the compensation packages of top executives at several schools, and leading a letter in May in support of the Department’s efforts to strengthen regulation of career education programs. In addition to Harkin and Durbin, the Proprietary Education Oversight Coordination Improvement Act is co-sponsored in the Senate by Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Jack Reed (D-RI), Brian Schatz (D-HI), and Barbara Boxer (D-CA). In addition to Cummings, the Protecting Our Students and Taxpayers (POST) Act is co-sponsored in the House by Representative Steve Cohen (D-TN). ###
10.20.2014	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Senator Elizabeth Warren, member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, called on the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to investigate threats to consumers arising from the growth in non-bank mortgage servicing. In their letter to U.S. Comptroller General Gene Dodaro, Cummings and Warren noted that as the non-bank share of the mortgage servicing market grew by 300% from 2011 to 2013, lack of servicing capacity at non-bank servicers led to increased consumer complaints and lawsuits. For the full release and letter, visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Democrats' website here.
09.25.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE BALTIMORE, MD (Sep. 25, 2014) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement after U.S. Attorney General Eric J. Holder announced his plans to resign after six years in that role: “Over the past six years, Attorney General Holder has worked to improve our nation’s broken justice system, enforce civil rights laws, ban racial profiling, rekindle trust between law enforcement and communities of color, restructure sentencing guidelines, and identify constructive alternatives to incarceration. In the process, he has improved how our courts and law enforcement officers do their jobs. “As the first-ever African American to serve in this position, Attorney General Holder has promoted equal protection under the law by building bridges across ideology, race, gender, and class. His capacity to fight for the rights of every American has been boundless, and his plan to continue many of those battles beyond his tenure at the Department of Justice is a testament to his character. “In his 26 years of public service, he has built a legacy of which he can be extremely proud, and I wish him the best as he moves on to new endeavors.” ###
09.17.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC (Sep. 17, 2014) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) introduced the Constitution and Citizenship Day Act of 2014, H.R. 5501, to commemorate the 227th anniversary of the signing of the U.S. Constitution. This legislation would encourage civic education by providing high school students new opportunities to learn about the Constitution and to register to vote. “This fall, Americans will walk to voting booths in every community across this nation to elect our leaders,” Cummings said. “Our right to vote is one of many rights guaranteed to us by our Constitution, yet every election cycle, millions of young Americans fail to exercise this right – often because they do not realize the importance of doing so. Congress is the living embodiment of our Constitution’s provisions and I invite all Members, on both sides of the aisle, to join me in co-sponsoring this legislation to ensure that future generations understand their rights and duties.” In the 2012 presidential election, an estimated 46 million people under age 30 were eligible to vote, and by 2020, voters between the ages of 18-29 are expected to make up one-third of the electorate. The Constitution and Citizenship Day Act would award competitive grants to schools to enable them to commemorate Constitution Day with educational programs that teach students about the U.S. Constitution and state constitutions. To be eligible for a grant, schools must plan and hold assemblies or presentations that discuss our nation’s history and the importance of the Constitution. To view the bill, click here. ###
09.11.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC (Sep. 11, 2014) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), released the following statement in remembrance of the lives lost in the September, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon: “Today, Americans here at home and around the world will pause to remember the lives lost in the attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon 13 years ago. There are many who will remember not just the overwhelming grief this nation felt that day, but where we were at the moment we learned of the attack. “The image of the twin towers crumbling is one that we will always carry with us. Although that moment could have been one of great fear and weakness, as those who perpetrated that attack intended, it was instead a shining example of our nation’s strength. From the first responders who went bravely into those burning towers knowing they might never return, to the selfless passengers of Flight 93 who paid the ultimate price to prevent further catastrophe, the events of that day demonstrated our capacity to stand in unity, and defy any who would try to bring us down. “We will never be able to bring back those taken from us that day. We will never be able to reverse the pain and grief felt. But we can continue to look forward, and work together to protect our democracy against any who would try to harm it. “As we remember the events of September 11 today, let us pray for the families who lost loved ones, for the many still suffering physical and mental anguish from those attacks, and perhaps most importantly, for a world that never has to see such pain again.” ###
09.09.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: BALTIMORE, MD (Sep. 8, 2014) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement following the Baltimore Ravens’ termination of running back Ray Rice’s contract: “I support the Baltimore Ravens’ decision to terminate Ray Rice’s contract, as well as the NFL's announcement of his indefinite suspension. Domestic violence is a brutal, cyclical, and too often hidden epidemic in our society. I hope these punishments will send a clear message not just to professional athletes and public figures, but to anyone engaging in these heinous acts that domestic violence and abuse will not be tolerated under any circumstance. “I commend Commissioner Goodell and the NFL for admitting error and taking corrective action in this case, and for changing the NFL guidelines on handling domestic violence offenses.” ###
09.01.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: BALTIMORE, MD (Sep. 1, 2014) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), released the following statement in recognition of Labor Day : “Labor Day was established to recognize hardworking Americans – the people who have made this nation what it is. The grit and endless dedication of our nation’s workers are a special part of what keeps America the greatest country in the world. “Although many Americans will celebrate at home today, there are workers who are at their posts, earning a minimum wage that barely puts food on the table. There are even more Americans who are unemployed, underemployed, and still reeling from the effects of the recession. Congress has the capacity to fix both of these problems, by raising the minimum wage, and passing legislation that will put Americans back to work. “As we honor the strength of our workforce today, we can’t afford to ignore opportunities that would make it even stronger. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to achieve that goal.” ###
08.26.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Baltimore, MD (Aug. 25, 2014) ー Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, former Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), joined fellow CBC members and more than 100 civic, corporate, and faith leaders from across the country in urging President Obama and his Administration to address the broken relationships between law enforcement and minority communities brought to light by the death of Michael Brown, an unarmed African American teen who was shot multiple times and killed by a Ferguson, Missouri police officer. The letter calls for the Administration to take specific steps to address the longstanding concerns of minorities regarding their interactions with law enforcement by establishing training, accountability, diversity, engagement, demilitarization, oversight and examination and change. The letter states in part: “Youth of color, black boys and men especially, who should be growing up in supportive, affirming environments are instead presumed to be criminals and relentlessly subjected to aggressive police tactics that result in unnecessary fear, arrests, injuries, and deaths.” Michael Brown’s funeral takes place today at the Friendly Temple Missionary Baptist Church in St. Louis, Missouri. Click here to see the full letter ###
08.15.2014	For Immediate Release: Baltimore, MD (Aug. 15, 2014) ー Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement on the violence occurring since the death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, MO: “The change in security tactics in Ferguson, and the intervention of Gov. Nixon has greatly improved a horrible situation. There is never an excuse for violence and aggression — on the part of the police or citizens — and the right to peacefully protest must be respected. This community has been rocked by the death of a young man with a bright future, and they deserve an opportunity to appropriately express outrage at this tragedy. “Beyond the immediate challenge of restoring peace to Ferguson, we must ensure that justice is served in the death of Michael Brown. The Ferguson Police Department must conduct that investigation in an open and transparent manner that rebuilds the trust of this community and the release of the name of the officer involved later today will represent a critical first step. “As a nation we must also address the deeper problems that created this conflict. We need police forces that reflect the communities they serve, we need to address the stereotypes associated with young men of color, and we need to find ways to prevent unnecessary escalations in situations like these. This case has the potential to be a turning point, and we must learn from it.” ###
07.23.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (July 23, 2014)—Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation that includes critical provisions introduced by Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, to reform the Net Price Calculator tool to provide prospective students with consistent and comparable price information for colleges and universities based on up-to-date data. Cummings first introduced these provisions in H.R. 3694, The Net Price Calculator Improvement Act, along with Chairman Darrell Issa and Rep. Rubén Hinojosa, Ranking Member of the Higher Education and Workforce Training Subcommittee. Today, these proposals passed as part of H.R. 4983, The Strengthening Transparency in Higher Education Act. Senator Al Franken introduced similar legislation in the Senate earlier this year. Below are Cummings’ remarks, as prepared for delivery, on the House floor today: I thank Ranking Member Miller for the time and I thank him, the Chairman, and the Chair and Ranking Member of the Higher Education subcommittee for their work on this legislation. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4983, the Strengthening Transparency in Higher Education Act. This legislation will help prospective students and their families by providing more accessible information about the costs of attending our nation’s colleges and universities. Today’s students are facing college costs that are at all-time highs, and they are wading into a system in which high debt loads are casually acquired accessories. The bill before us today includes provisions that I authored that will improve a tool already available to help students and their families assess the costs of attending college: the Net Price Calculator. A 2012 study by the Institute for College Access and Success found that many of the Net Price Calculators were “difficult for prospective college students and their families to find, use, and compare.” According to the report, students often have to guess where the calculators are located on schools’ webpages, what each school calls the calculator, and whether the information it provides is accurate. Additionally, veterans and servicemembers must try to determine whether the estimates provided by such calculators accurately reflect the academic benefits they have earned through their service. As Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, one of my roles is to help government work more effectively. My bill, the Net Price Calculator Improvement Act, H.R. 3694, addresses the challenges identified with current Net Price Calculators by ensuring that they will provide consistent and comparable price information for colleges and universities based on up-to-date data. My legislation would also ensure that institutions place the calculators in consistent locations on their websites and it would protect students who use the calculators from data mining. I applaud my colleagues on the Education and the Workforce Committee for including these critical provisions and urge passage of this legislation. As I close, let me note that the bill before us is an important first step in the process of reauthorizing the Higher Education Act, and it contains important reforms – however, our work is not done by simply passing this bill. The bills before the House this week ignore the bread and butter of federal higher education policy – federal student aid. We cannot enact only the pieces of legislation to be considered this week, pat ourselves on the back, and leave the remainder of the Higher Education Act on the table. We must reauthorize the Higher Education Act in its entirety as quickly as possible. With that, I urge support of this legislation and I yield back the remainder of my time. The Net Price Calculator Improvement Act is supported by the National Association of Financial Aid Administrators, the Institute for College Access and Success, Consumer Union, the American Association of State Colleges and Universities, the Council for Opportunity in Education, the Institute for Higher Education Policy, the Young Invincibles, the Center for Responsible Lending, US PIRG, the National Association for College Admission Counseling, and the American Association of Community Colleges.
07.22.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 22, 2014)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), an alumnus of Howard University, issued the following statement on the unanimous selection of Dr. Wayne A. I. Frederick as the school’s 17th President: “I congratulate Dr. Frederick on his selection as the 17th President of Howard University. As a fellow alumnus I know that he understands Howard’s deep roots, and having served as interim president, I am confident that he has the experience and creativity to maintain the school’s historical significance while building a modern presence that will keep the institution strong for years to come. I look forward to working with President Frederick as he assumes this new role.” ###
07.15.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Washington, D.C. (July 14, 2014) —Today, the House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation introduced by Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, to extend a pilot program under the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act for three additional years. H.R. 4197, The All Circuit Review Extension Act, was cosponsored by Rep. Darrell E. Issa, Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Rep. Blake Farenthold, Chairman of the Federal Workforce Subcommittee, Rep. Gerry Connolly, Ranking Member of the Government Operations Subcommittee, and long-time whistleblower advocate Rep. Chris Van Hollen. Click here to read the full press release.
07.02.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE BALTIMORE, MD (July 2, 2014) –Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) released the following statement on the death of former Prince George’s County executive Wayne K. Curry: “Wayne Curry’s deep connections to his community provided him with a drive to see that community succeed, and fueled his passionate fight to do everything in his power to make that success a reality. His ability to keep sight of the interests of a burgeoning community of African American professionals while also addressing the needs of a socioeconomically and racially diverse constituency gave him the capacity to advocate for their needs first and foremost — even when he found himself at odds with allies. That model of constituent-based leadership is the legacy that Mr. Curry leaves behind, and it is a model that every elected representative should strive to follow. “Mr. Curry’s fierce advocacy for his community’s economic advancement, and his desire to improve education and opportunity for every resident helped build the strong and vibrant Prince George’s County we know today. His voice in our community will be greatly missed. My thoughts and prayers are with his family at this difficult time.” ###
06.25.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 25, 2014)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement on the 50th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the one-year anniversary of the Supreme Court’s decision to strike many of the protections of the Voting Rights Act in their ruling on Shelby County v. Holder: “Fifty years ago, our nation’s leaders took an extraordinary step toward building a more perfect union for all Americans by passing the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The law banned discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, and national origin and ended racial segregation at schools and in the workplace. It was a spark of hope for millions of Americans who had long been oppressed, and a spark of action that would lead to the passage of the Voting Rights Act a year later. “The battle for the Civil Rights Act was hard fought, but it came down to something very essential — the belief at the core of our democracy that all men are created equal. The leaders who voted for the Civil Rights Act voted to put these words into practice for all Americans – in some cases, potentially at the expense of their political futures. “Ironically, even as we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act, we also observe the one-year anniversary of the Supreme Court’s decision in Shelby County v. Holder, which threatens to undo some of the hard-won gains of the last five decades. The right to vote should never be something we limit, and the protection of that right should be something for which every American will fight. We must pass legislation that will honor the vision of our nation’s founders and fulfill the work of those who fought for the Civil Rights Act fifty years ago by restoring all of the protections enshrined in the Voting Rights Act.” ###
06.09.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 9, 2014)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement commending President Obama’s executive action to tie monthly payments on students loans to monthly income, reducing payments for millions of borrowers across the country: “Higher education is a critical ladder of opportunity for American families, yet escalating costs are forcing many graduates to begin their professional lives with insurmountable debt. With student loan debt averaging nearly $30,000 per graduate, many young Americans are unable to buy homes or start businesses. “The President’s action today will help put nearly five million Americans back on solid financial footing and keep more borrowers from falling into delinquency and default. “In Maryland, borrowers have more than $20 billion in outstanding student debt, making it essential that we work swiftly to address this growing crisis. I applaud the President’s actions to help keep college affordable, preserving that ladder of opportunity for generations yet unborn, and I urge Congress to enact sensible reforms to our financial aid process.” Today, the President directed the Department of Education to expand the Pay As You Earn (PAYE) program. The PAYE program enables student loan borrowers to cap their loan payments at 10% of their monthly income. The new rules will open the PAYE program to borrowers who are currently ineligible because they have loans that originated before October 2007. Cummings is a cosponsor of the House companion to Senator Elizabeth Warren’s legislation, The Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, which is being considered by the Senate this week. ###
06.09.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Washington, DC (June 9, 2014) ­­—Today, Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), John Sarbanes (D-MD), and C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) applauded the issuance by the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) of a Notice of Intent to Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to address the deficiencies associated with the B&P Tunnel in Baltimore. Section 304(a) of the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 directed the FRA to work with Amtrak, the State of Maryland, and rail operators to develop a new rail tunnel alignment through Baltimore that would permit an increase in train speed and service reliability. Funding to carry out this work was awarded to the Maryland Department of Transportation under the High Speed Intercity Passenger Rail Program created by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “This is good news for Baltimore and the entire Northeast Corridor,” said Senator Mikulski. “Replacing the B&P Tunnel is on the must-do list for Baltimore’s aging infrastructure. The B&P Tunnel is critical to keeping Maryland’s economy rolling, carrying all passenger and freight rail traffic on the Northeast Corridor through Baltimore. Years of operation have left it deteriorating to the point of being operationally outdated. This is an important step in the right direction for safety and the modernization of our railroad.” “Replacement of the B&P Tunnel is essential to improving rail transportation on the Northeast Corridor and is a necessary precursor to the introduction of high speed rail service into Baltimore,” Congressman Cummings said. “ Preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement will take us one step closer to identifying the best plan to modernize Baltimore’s rail tunnel infrastructure.” “A new tunnel is essential if we want to increase the cargo capacity of trains and take advantage of the larger container ships that will be arriving at the Port of Baltimore through the widened Panama Canal,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “Ultimately, it will relieve congestion on our highways and lower the cost of doing business in Maryland.” “I applaud the FRA for moving forward with an Environmental Impact Statement on upgrading the B&P Tunnel,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “We must invest in our rail infrastructure so that MARC and Amtrak remain safe and reliable methods of mass transit through the City of Baltimore.” The B&P Tunnel carries all trains traveling between Baltimore, MD and Washington, DC on the Northeast Corridor. The tunnel opened in 1873 and is nearing the end of its useful life. Its antiquated design and aging structure limit train speeds and create a chokepoint that impedes the flow of rail traffic. ###
05.28.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: BALTIMORE, MD (May 28, 2014) –Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) released the following statement on the death of trailblazing novelist and poet Maya Angelou: “Maya Angelou was a force of strength, beauty, and resilience whose voice will be missed around the world. Her ability to grasp strands of hope in even the most devastating circumstances has inspired generations of Americans, and her capacity to express her story through her poetry and prose made her an international icon. “Despite experiencing poverty and violence in her childhood, Ms. Angelou danced with Alvin Ailey, acted on Broadway, taught at Wake Forest University, spoke at a Presidential inauguration, and advanced the Civil Rights Movement. In each of these roles, she served as a model of grace and determination for those who face adversity, often speaking directly to them with incomparable phrases like, ‘You may trod me in the very dirt, but still, like dust, I'll rise.’ “Ms. Angelou blazed a trail for others to follow, and has left us a legacy that will never be forgotten. My prayers are with her family at this difficult time.” ###
05.28.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: WASHINGTON, DC (MAY 28, 2014) — Yesterday, Rep. Mark Takano (D-CA) and Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD) led 39 Members of Congress in sending a letter to the United States Department of Education in support of the Department’s efforts to strengthen regulation of career education programs. The proposed regulations would clarify provisions in the Higher Education Act (HEA) that require career education programs to “prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation.” “With for-profit colleges enrolling just 13% of America's students and accounting for nearly half of all federal student loan defaults, we must reexamine which institutions can receive and use federal money,” said Rep. Takano. “A strong gainful employment rule will do just that, as it will not only protect students and properly prepare them to enter the workforce, but ensure that taxpayer money for federal student financial aid is being well spent. I urge the Department of Education to resist the millions of dollars special interests are pouring into this fight and develop a strong rule that will benefit students and protect taxpayer money." "The development of a strong rule is critical to protecting the students attending these institutions as well as the taxpayers who provide the millions of dollars in federal student aid paid in to these programs," said Rep. Cummings. “The Department of Education must put in place regulations that will ensure career education programs receiving federal dollars are providing high-quality educational programs that will equip students to compete for the jobs available in their chosen fields. Programs that can't meet this simple standard should not receive taxpayer funding.” Joining Reps. Takano and Cummings on the letter were: Reps. DeLauro, Farr, Grijalva, Christensen, Cleaver, Conyers, Susan Davis, DelBene, Hinojosa, Honda, Brownley, Chu, Cohen, Danny K. Davis, Ellison, Negrete McLeod, Fudge, Napolitano, Hahn, Polis, Holt, Rush, Huffman, Speier, Hank Johnson, Waxman, Lowenthal, Lee, Bonamici, Roybal-Allard, McDermott, Schiff, Moore, Waters, Schakowsky, Jeffries, and Peterson. The development of stronger gainful employment regulations is supported by more than 50 organizations, including Young Invincibles, the American Association of State Colleges and Universities, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), and the National Education Association (NEA).Click here for the full text of the letter. ###
05.27.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: BALTIMORE, MD (May 26, 2014) — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day: “Memorial Day offers us a special opportunity each year to recognize the courage, dedication, and sacrifice of the servicemembers who have given their lives to defend our nation. These men and women, and the families they have left behind, have earned our never-ending gratitude. “The members of our armed forces are often the best example of the valor and heroism that we cherish as Americans. While we honor the memories of the fallen, we cannot forget the many who return. Over the last five years, nearly two million veterans have come home — many of them in need of medical care, employment, and support. I can think of no group more worthy of our assistance. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to ensure that our veterans have access to the resources they need.” ###
04.29.2014	The below are remarks as prepared for delivery at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health's Social Determinants of Health Symposium, "Squandered Resources: Incarceration - Consequences, Costs & Alternatives" on Monday, April 28, 2014. True Witnesses in a Movement for Change Thank you, Dr. Blum, for your kind words of introduction - and my thanks, also, to Provost Robert Lieberman and The Johns Hopkins Urban Health Institute for inviting me to this very important symposium. Good afternoon, everyone. There are so many brilliant and influential speakers on our program for today that I would spend all of my time before returning to Washington properly acknowledging each of them. So, my friends - please consider yourselves acknowledged and accept my genuine gratitude for taking on the serious challenges posed by illegal drugs and over-incarceration in our society. As we are all aware, these two challenges are intertwined. There is no more driving force than drugs underlying the massive levels of incarceration in America. I have struggled with these challenges for the last 18 years, both here in our community and as a member of the House Committee that provides oversight with respect to our National Drug Control Strategy. So, I am painfully aware of how difficult and heartbreaking it can be to fashion effective and fair responses to these issues. In my own work, I have been educated and encouraged by the continuing commitment of Johns Hopkins. The Hopkins motto, Veritas vos liberabit, should be a subtitle for our mission here today: we shall know the truth, and the truth shall make us free. In general terms, this is the charge that I have been asked to give to you today. You are the true witnesses to the devastation that is occurring in our society - and to the impacts, both positive and negative, of our responses. I have been asked by the Urban Health Institute to offer some of my own views on this devastation - and to make suggestions about where your work can be most helpful to the Congress in the years ahead. However, please remember this. You are the experts, the true witnesses to what is happening. All that I can do is share with you my own point of view. As a start, allow me to remind you of an often-told story that should caution all of us against over-simplification of what, in fact, is a very complex set of social issues. I recall for you the young couple who traveled to Niagara Falls for their honeymoon. There, they picnicked by the rapidly flowing river that flowed past them down toward the falls. Abruptly, the new husband jumped up, dove into the river and returned with a basket in which a baby was nestled. Then, the husband shouted to his wife. “There are two more baskets in the river,” he yelled, and he jumped back into the water to save the babies before they were lost in the falls. As he braved the current toward the endangered children, his wife began running upstream toward the source of the current. “Where are you going?” her husband shouted. “I need your help saving all these babies!” “I’m doing what needs to be done,” his wife responded. “I’m going to find out who is throwing all of these babies in the river . . . and stop them.” Ladies and gentlemen, there now is a reform movement gaining steam in our country that is focused toward a more evidence-based, rational and humane response to drug abuse and addiction. For our part, we are here today to seek the truth about mass incarceration in our society. Today, and in our work, we should give careful thought to the realization that progressive change requires action upstream as well as downstream. My experience has taught me that evidence-based strategies can moderate the impact of mass incarceration in the short-term. However, only more effective investment in the education of our younger generation can achieve long-term and lasting change. In short, we must begin by focusing upstream to where the babies are being thrown in the water. Consider this. For several years now, I have served on an advisory board at Maritime Industries Academy High School. Our intentions are good, and we have worked hard. Yet, our school, like far too many others in our city, is seeking to lift up young people who have been seriously undervalued and undereducated. How do we help someone in high school to succeed when that young person can barely read? In contrast, I bring to your attention the new Henderson-Hopkins School, sponsored by Johns Hopkins, where students up to Grade 8 receive the most comprehensive educational experience possible. These young people are offered more effective, research-based teaching designed to help all students reach their highest level of competence, confidence and success. I commend Hopkins for this initiative, and I will provide my support wherever I can. Yet, my broader objective is to assure that every child receives this empowering level of instruction. That will happen only if we, as a community and nation, invest in education as if our future depends upon it - as it surely does. We must instill higher expectations for all of our children. So, in our conversation today, I will begin by focusing upstream where the tragedy of drug abuse, crime and mass incarceration is even now being fashioned. I often am asked to speak to students in our schools. My goal - always - is to encourage our young people, especially those who, all-to-often, have had little else to encourage them in their young lives. I want these young people to know that each of them has the power to exceed the negative expectations that others may have of them - and, often, that they are developing in themselves. So, I share with these young people my own experience in the elementary school that I attended more than 50 years ago. I want them to see how expectations, both negative and positive, shape our lives - and, eventually, our society. I spent most of my elementary school training as an unhappy member of what then was called the “3rd Group” - what we today call "special education". To this day, I remember the cold, incredulous, rejecting words of my 6th grade school counselor. “You want to be a lawyer? Who do you think you are?” My friends, when I think back to that time, I do something I have done every morning of my adult life. I thank God for the wonderful adults who gave me my head start in life. I thank God for Mr. Hollis Posey, the sixth grade teacher who listened to my dreams, who believed in my potential, and who taught to my strengths, not to my limitations. I thank God for my parents, who convinced me that I could become whatever I decided to be. And I also thank God for all of the good people who invested in me and my education. Because of them, I made it through a gauntlet of prejudice and poverty. Because of their help and encouragement, I made it out of the 3rd group, and graduated second in my class from Baltimore City College High School. Because high expectations were instilled in me, I became a Phi Beta Kappa at Howard University and a lawyer at the University of Maryland. I was elected to public office and rose to the position of Speaker Pro Tem of the Maryland House of Delegates. And today, because people believed in me and invested in me, I am honored to serve as your representative in the Congress of the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, I have shared this personal story with you for a reason. The writer Wes Moore, a Rhodes Scholar, in his best seller, The Other Wes Moore, tells us of having a conversation with another gentleman named Wes Moore, who grew up in a very similar Maryland community. The other Wes Moore was serving a sentence of life without parole in the penitentiary. The writer tells us of asking the prisoner whether he thought that people were products of their environments. The prisoner answered him in an unexpected way - a way that had the ring of truth. “No,” he replied. “While our environment has something to do with who we turn out to be, I believe that people are the products of their EXPECTATIONS, and the expectations of others.” This, in my view, is a powerful truth. Represented here at this Symposium are some of the finest educational institutions in the world. We must acknowledge this truth. If we did not have persons in our lives who had great expectations for us, we would not be where we are today. We, quite easily, could be among the millions of Americans now consigned to our streets, our addiction clinics, our prisons and our jails. This river from childhood expectations and education to adult behavior is a critical consideration in our movement to reform drug policy and mass incarceration for adults. As someone who practiced law in this city for nearly 25 years before entering the Congress, I can testify that many of the adults now incarcerated or struggling with “reentry” to civil society began as children in jail. Late last year, Congressman Robert Scott and I participated in a public forum at the University of Baltimore. It was entitled “Beyond Jail: Toward Justice and Opportunity in Baltimore.” Our primary objective during the “Beyond Jail” forum was to examine and document the alternatives to secure detention for young people who have become caught up in Baltimore’s juvenile justice system, the adult justice system or both. Our shared priorities were crystal clear. We were not considering returning dangerous offenders to our streets. Public safety was - and remains - our foremost concern. The public’s safety requires the detention of those young people who, objectively, are determined to be threats. However, from the data presented at our forum, we now know that most of the detention that is actually imposed within Baltimore’s juvenile justice system has not been the result of evidence-based, objective assessments of danger. I helped to convene this public forum, but my main purpose was to learn. I was trying to understand an apparent paradox that we need to address as a community. The number of young people arrested during the last decade has decreased by 46 percent. That is good news – and an encouraging trend. Then why, I asked myself, does Maryland continue to struggle with the challenge of responding appropriately to those young people who do become the responsibility of our juvenile justice system? Part of the answer to my question has now been revealed: at least in some ways, we have been responding to our young people in ways that are counter-productive. As a 2012 “Doors to Detention” Study that we discussed at our forum confirmed, most of Baltimore’s juvenile detention placements have been the result of offenses that did not involve violence. Detention has been driven more often by the “policies and practices” of the system, rather than by public safety risks. Viewing these facts, there are those who could conclude that the disproportionately black population being jailed in Baltimore’s juvenile system – as well as in our nation’s prisons as a whole – is evidence of a “New Jim Crow.” I will speak to that before I am done. For now, please know that neither Congressman Scott nor I would seriously argue with much of that perception. We also know, however, that acknowledging inequities in the current system does not automatically determine the best response where the public’s safety is concerned. That is true both for our society and for those who are incarcerated. We also know that detention of young people for reasons that are not crimes of violence is extraordinarily expensive. And we know that paying now for excessive juvenile detention does little to deter future crime. For the sake of public safety, our public treasury and, most important of all, the future of our young people, we must do better – and I am convinced that we can. To their credit, the O’Malley-Brown Administration (and, especially, Maryland’s Juvenile Services Secretary, Sam Abed, and his staff) have demonstrated a willingness to develop alternatives to detention for non-violent juveniles. Secretary Abed has consistently argued that many of the non-violent young people under DJS jurisdiction could be better served by alternative placements. He has noted, as examples, home detention supplemented by GPS monitoring, home visits by DJS staffers, daily and evening reporting requirements, and smaller, community-based treatment programs. With respect to juveniles charged as adults, we now are witnessing this support for reform taking concrete form. Last year, Maryland’s public safety officials announced an alternative to the mammoth and expensive juvenile jail plans that the state had previously proposed (a proposal that had caused much public concern). Rather than a new jail, the State now is envisioning a “regional treatment facility” for those juveniles under the jurisdiction of the adult system. In addition, for young people charged as adults, the State’s alternative plan encompasses the development of a designated 60-cell unit inside the adult system’s current Baltimore City complex. That unit will be charged with providing those young people with “health, mental health services, treatment programming, education and vocational training infrastructure, and recreational space." These are important initial steps – and now we should build upon these reforms. Now, we should expand the use of alternatives to detention for non-violent young people within the state’s juvenile justice system as well. We all have a stake in assuring that these alternatives receive the resources that they need to succeed. We can build upon existing state initiatives to shift resources from unnecessary and often counterproductive detention practices toward community-based alternatives that better serve us all. Maryland can become a national leader in choosing opportunity over disproportionate incarceration where our young people are concerned. We can better protect the public, better serve young people who have lost their way, and save substantial amounts of taxpayer funds in the process. Now, I submit, is the time for Baltimore and Maryland to move ”Beyond Jail". We must listen to the stories of real people caught in the mass incarceration cycle if we are to develop meaningful reform. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today because we believe that the same forces of reform should be applied to both our juvenile and our adult prison populations. At the federal level, President Obama and Attorney General Holder are leading a movement to rationalize and humanize the use of incarceration as a response to crime, a movement in which I am proud to be playing a part. They are following a course of investigation and reform similar to that which is underway with respect to juvenile justice here in Maryland. I will speak briefly to these federal efforts toward reform before I am done. First, however, allow me to touch upon the issue of racial disparities in our resort to incarceration. As I mentioned a few moments ago, a very capable civil rights lawyer and law school professor, Ms. Michele Alexander, has pushed the issue of racial disparities to the forefront of our national debates about the use of incarceration in response to illegal drug sales and use. In her book The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness, Ms. Alexander asserts that many of the gains of the civil rights movement have been undermined by the mass incarceration of black Americans in the war on drugs. She speaks to the motives and the impact of our national response to illegal drug sales and use, asserting that, “Millions of black men arrested for minor crimes remain marginalized and disfranchised, trapped by a criminal justice system that has forever branded them as felons and denied them basic rights and opportunities that would allow them to become productive, law-abiding citizens.” Whether we agree or disagree with Ms. Alexander’s assessment of the motives for our national response to drugs and crime, it would be difficult to argue with her witness to the effects of our national anti-drug policy. Candidly, it is those effects that are an important aspect of the failures that we are here to address. Equally important, however, we would be well advised to understand just why Michele Alexander wrote The New Jim Crow, as well as what she has asserted. Fortunately, she has told us why. In a 2012 interview with National Public Radio, Michele Alexander spoke of a campaign against racial profiling and other misconduct by police officers in which she was a lead attorney for the NAACP. She recalled a young black man whom she interviewed - a young man who appeared at first to be the perfect plaintiff for their law suit. Then, the young man told her that he had been convicted of a drug felony. He declared that he had been “framed” by the police. Ms. Alexander felt constrained to tell him that she could not represent him. His prior criminal record would weaken their case against racial profiling. “I just kept telling him sorry, I'm sorry. We can't represent you,” she recalled. “And he keeps trying to explain the circumstances and how he accepted a plea even though he was innocent. And I kept apologizing.” The young man responded, “You're no better than the police. The minute I tell you I'm a felon, you stop listening . . . . Good luck finding one young black man in my neighborhood they haven't gotten to yet. They've gotten to us already.” Michele Alexander’s recollection described an innocent young black man who was without prospects and without hope. And she acknowledged her own failing as a lawyer in that instance. “The minute he told me he was a felon, I stopped listening," she recalled. “I couldn't even hear what he had to say. And I realized that my crime wasn't so much that I had refused to represent an innocent man, someone who had been telling me the truth, but that I had been blind to all those who were guilty and that their stories weren't being told.” “The millions of folks who have been labeled criminals and guilty, that even civil rights lawyers like me, people who claimed to care and have dedicated themselves to working for racial justice,” Ms. Alexander concluded, “we were turning a blind eye to the millions who had been labeled guilty and weren't allowing their stories to be told.” Ladies and gentlemen, in our own search for the truth about mass incarceration, how many of us have experienced a measure of Michele Alexander’s remorse? How many of us, upon reflection, have stopped listening when we learned of a prior criminal record? I suspect that each and every one of us has fallen into this error on occasion. And that, my friends, is why the community partnership that is the foundation of The Johns Hopkins Urban Health Institute is critical. None of us have all the answers. If we did, our community and nation would be a very different place. Brother Ellsworth Johnson-Bey and I will not always agree. But, we must respect each other and listen to each other. Only through that process can the whole truth be revealed - and our movement for change succeed. The “Voices of Ex-Offenders” that will follow my remarks to you today deserve a fair hearing. We all must understand the full cost of mass incarceration - a cost that all of us are now paying. Now, before I must leave for Washington, allow me to speak to our federal reform efforts “downstream.” In the time I have left, I will put on my congressional hat and briefly summarize some of the reforms at the federal level that President Obama, Attorney General Holder and those of us who support their vision in the Congress are seeking to realize. To refresh your recollection, here are a few pertinent facts. Today, More than one out of every 100 American adults is behind bars - about 14 percent in federal prisons and the majority in state and local correctional systems. All told, the U.S. prison population is more than 2.4 million. That’s more than quadrupled since 1980. As I have been stressing, the single largest driver in the increase in the federal prison population since 1998 is longer sentences for drug offenders. The most serious charge against 51 percent of those inmates is a drug offense. Only four percent are in for robbery and only one percent are in for homicide. The most serious charge against 20 percent of state-prison inmates is a drug offense. Although lower than in federal prisons, it’s still larger than any other single category of offense in state prisons. In addition to the devastating human costs of both drugs and drug-related incarceration highlighted by Michele Alexander, as a society, we also are facing massive, and growing, public costs in our response to drug-related crime. The average inmate in minimum-security federal prison costs $21,000 each year. The average inmate in maximum-security federal prisons costs $33,000 each year. And federal prison costs are expected to rise by 30 percent by 2020. The National Drug Control Budget Proposal for FY 2015 proposed by the White House last month totals $25.4 Billion.In rough terms, that proposed funding can be broken down into: $1.3 Billion for Prevention, $9.6 Billion for Treatment, and $9.2 Billion for Law Enforcement. And these public outlays have remained relatively steady since FY2009. So, both our sense of morality and practicality are driving our movement for reform. Speaking to the need to develop and implement alternatives to incarceration, the White House is looking for innovative ways to improve public health and public safety outcomes, while also reducing the costs of criminal justice and corrections. The current focus of reform is clear: removing low-risk, non-violent, drug-involved offenders from prison or jail – while still holding them accountable and ensuring the safety of our communities. Overall, these “Justice Reinvestment” reforms are part of an overall Justice Department initiative called being “Smart on Crime.” Currently, federal reforms focus on five goals. To ensure finite resources are devoted to the most important law enforcement priorities; to promote fairer enforcement of the laws and alleviate disparate impacts of the criminal justice system; to ensure just punishments for low-level, nonviolent convictions; to bolster prevention and reentry efforts to deter crime and reduce recidivism; and to strengthen protections for vulnerable populations. In a speech before the American Bar Association in August of 2013, Attorney General Eric Holder declared that “We must face the reality that, as it stands, our system is in too many respects broken…With an outsized, unnecessarily large prison population, we need to ensure that incarceration is used to punish, deter, and rehabilitate – not merely to warehouse and forget.” “Today,” the Attorney General continued, “a vicious cycle of poverty, criminality, and incarceration traps too many Americans and weakens too many communities. And many aspects of our criminal justice system may actually exacerbate these problems, rather than alleviate them.” “It’s clear that too many Americans go to too many prisons for far too long, and for no truly good law enforcement reason. “And it is well past time to implement common sense changes that will foster safer communities from coast to coast.” These encouraging declarations from our nation’s top lawyer are beginning to be reflected in reform. In 2010, we successfully advocated for the reduction of the unjust 100-to-1 sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine. The Attorney General has mandated a modification of the Justice Department’s charging policies so that certain low-level, nonviolent drug offenders who have no ties to large-scale organizations, gangs, or cartels will no longer be charged with offenses that impose draconian mandatory minimum sentences. And, on April 23 of this year, the Justice Department unveiled a new clemency initiative. Under the new initiative, the department will prioritize clemency applications from inmates who meet all of the following factors: They are currently serving a federal sentence in prison and, by operation of law, likely would have received a substantially lower sentence if convicted of the same offense(s) today; they are non-violent, low-level offenders without significant ties to large scale criminal organizations, gangs or cartels; they have served at least 10 years of their prison sentence; they do not have a significant criminal history; They have demonstrated good conduct in prison; and they have no history of violence prior to or during their current term of imprisonment. Ladies and gentlemen, these reform efforts “downstream” at the federal level will not eliminate the mass incarceration that we are witnessing in America today – but they are a significant beginning. Yet, as long as well fail “upstream” to properly educate every child, our communities will continue to suffer disproportionately “downstream” from drugs and drug-related crime. And as long as we fail to structure our economy to provide appropriate job training and jobs that pay a living wage, we will continue to be bedeviled by a deadly and disabling drug economy in which the survival for some is paid for by the addiction and death of others. My friends, here at Johns Hopkins, where we believe that the truth shall set us free, I have done my best to speak the truth today. And a critical part of that truth is this. Until our society recognizes that it is rational for miseducated, impoverished and rejected human beings to seek the illusion of happiness in drug-induced stupor, a cancer in our society will continue to grow. In response to this threat, my charge to you is both straight-forward and difficult to achieve. We need evidence-based policies and practices that accomplish three interrelated goals. First, we must continue our efforts to improve our children’s education “upstream,” moving proactively to reduce the “downstream” torrent of excessive mass incarceration. Second, we must sustain public support for drug treatment on demand. Third, we must find ways to better meet the challenges posed by “re-entry,” especially the need to expand employment opportunities both for ex-offenders and for their brothers and sisters before they offend. You are critical players in a movement of liberation for all of us, my friends: A movement to free those of us who are being crippled by low expectations and miseducation, A movement to free those of us who are being enslaved by addicting drugs, A movement to free those of us who have been dehumanized to the point of preying upon their own neighbors, A movement to free those of us whose voices have been ignored, A movement to free those of us who are non-violent but yet languish in our prisons when they should be hospitalized, A movement to free those of us who have paid their debt to our society but remain excluded and disparaged, and A movement to free those of us who are afraid to leave our own homes because of the threats to our safety that may be lurking outside. You are the true witnesses whose observations, experience and testimony are crucial to our movement toward a safer, more prosperous and more humane society. With your continuing work and support, I remain convinced that reform is possible. As a society, we shall know the whole truth about mass incarceration. And the truth shall make us free. Thank you. ####
04.03.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE [WASHINGTON, D.C.] – U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee U.S. Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) today introduced legislation that would improve coordination between federal agencies that oversee the for-profit college industry. Through the establishment of an interagency oversight committee, the Proprietary Education Oversight Coordination Improvement Act - which will be introduced in the House of Representatives by U.S. Representative Elijah Cummings (D-MD), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform - aims to improve enforcement of federal laws and regulations while increasing accountability of for-profit colleges to students and taxpayers. “For many years, for-profit schools were allowed to operate one step ahead of the law. As the number of investigations by federal, state and local agencies increase, however, I think we are starting to turn the corner,” said Durbin. “With so many agencies involved in these oversight efforts it is important that they are effectively working together to hold these schools accountable to taxpayers who often subsidizes up to 90% of their operations and to students who ultimately are the victims of their schemes. Better coordination will help regulators prevent the ongoing fraudulent and abusive practices of this industry that rakes in more than $25 billion in federal dollars every year.” “Far too many students seeking the American dream are instead enrolling in schools that leave them with worthless degrees and burdensome debt. We need to do more to ensure that students attending these schools are receiving a quality education—one that justifies the billions of dollars taxpayers are spending each year,” Harkin said. “This legislation is common sense. Federal and state agencies must work together to ensure that these schools are held accountable to students and taxpayers—not just shareholders. I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this important effort forward.” “Congress must ensure that for-profit schools use the significant federal resources they receive to provide educational instruction that will enable students to achieve their goals and better their lives. The streamlined oversight created through this legislation will combat the deceptive practices common in this industry and help students enrolled in these schools get what they – and, frequently, taxpayers – are paying for,” said Cummings. “My work will not stop until these students and our investment in these schools are protected.” The Durbin-Harkin-Cummings bill would require the formation of an interagency committee - the Proprietary Education Oversight Coordination Committee - made up of representatives from the following agencies: the Department of Education; the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; the Department of Justice; the Securities and Exchange Commission; the Department of Defense; the Department of Veterans Affairs; the Federal Trade Commission; the Department of Labor and the Internal Revenue Service. Five for-profit colleges are currently under investigation by at least one of four federal agencies according to a report in the Chronicle of Higher Education. The report also finds that ten for-profit colleges are under investigation by at least one of the 22 states attorneys general that currently have an investigation open into a for-profit college including Career Education Corporation, Corinthian Colleges Inc. Education Management Corporation and ITT which are under investigation in 17, 20, 17 and 16 states respectively. The Proprietary Education Oversight Coordination Improvement Act requires the committee to: Hold quarterly meetings as a group and annual meetings with State Attorneys General to coordinate federal and state activities related to for-profit school oversight; Publish a whole-of-government report on the for-profit college industry in order to compile, in one place, student complaints, data about student outcomes and financial information related to executive compensation, marketing and other metrics; Publish a warning list of schools that have engaged in illegal activities or for which there is sufficient evidence of widespread or systemic abusive, unethical, fraudulent or predatory practices. The for-profit college industry receives more than $25 billion in federal dollars which is enough funding to make it the ninth largest federal agency. While they enroll only about 10% of all college students, they take in 20% of the Department of Education’s federal student aid funds and account for a disproportionate 46% of student loan defaults. Durbin and Harkin have been working together since 2009 to protect students from the predatory practices of the for-profit college industry. In November 2013, they reintroduced legislation in the Senate that would help put an end to the for-profit industry’s predatory marketing campaigns and aggressive recruiting of veterans, servicemembers and their families. The Protecting Our Students and Taxpayers (POST) Act, which U.S. Representative Steve Cohen (D-TN) introduced in the House of Representatives, would eliminate the loophole that allows these publicly traded companies to receive more than 90% of their revenue from the federal government. More information on that legislation can be found HERE. Cummings has done significant work to investigate the practices of for-profit colleges, including an investigation into the compensation packages of top executives at these institutions. Cummings requested copies of compensation agreements for senior executives at 13 for-profit schools to determine whether salaries, bonuses, and other compensation are appropriately tied to the performance of students they educate. ###
03.20.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Mar. 20, 2014)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) joined with Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley to lead a rally of workers, faith leaders, and labor groups in support of S.B. 331, a proposal currently awaiting action by the Maryland State Senate that would raise Maryland’s minimum wage to $10.10. “Raising the minimum wage is about giving people a shot – a shot at supporting their families, a shot at lifting themselves out of poverty and into the middle class, and a shot at sharing in the success of our state,” said Rep. Cummings. “Congress has failed to act – now Maryland has the opportunity to be a national leader, demonstrating the strength and positive results that come with investing in our workforce. The State Senate needs to act on this. Maryland deserves a raise.” "With the number one schools in the country, top rankings in upward economic mobility and innovation, it’s critical that we do everything we can to build on our progress and expand opportunity for more Marylanders rather than less," said Gov. O'Malley. "Raising Maryland's minimum wage is one of the most effective ways to strengthen and grow our middle class. The time is now to act — together we can continue to move our state and our nation forward." “Raise Maryland is proud to stand with our state and federal leaders as we work together to raise the wage to $10.10 per hour in our state,” said Ricarra Jones, chair of Raise Maryland. “By raising Maryland’s minimum wage, 455,000 workers across the state will get a raise and businesses will benefit from nearly half a billion dollars in new consumer spending.” Congressman Cummings is an original cosponsor of H.R. 1010, legislation that would raise the federal minimum wage to $10.10 over the course of the next three years. ###
02.27.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Feb. 27, 2014)—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), issued the following statement after President Obama announced the “My Brother’s Keeper” initiative, a partnership between government and the private sector intended to positively impact young African American men: “Young African American men have immense potential to be powerful and inspiring leaders in our communities, but they face challenges both economic and systemic that no other demographic in the United States endures. President Obama’s ‘My Brother’s Keeper’ initiative will provide these young men with the right guidance and access to opportunities, so that they are able to shine. “I see the youth who will benefit from the ‘My Brother’s Keeper’ initiative in my community every day. They are bright, enterprising, clever, and imaginative, but the odds they face often destroy the dreams they have. I commend the President for recognizing those odds, and I applaud this new effort to identify strategies that will positively alter these young men’s lives. I look forward to the work this partnership will do to give our young black men a fighting chance.” ###
02.07.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Feb. 7, 2014) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement today in response to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ report that the U.S. economy added 113,000 jobs in January and the unemployment “With the economy adding 113,000 jobs in January and the unemployment rate dipping to 6.6 percent, it’s clear that our recovery is still moving forward. Private sector employment has grown for 47 consecutive months and businesses have added 8.5 million jobs over this period. “While we have made undeniable progress strengthening the economy, there is clearly more to be done. The House and Senate should be working together to create jobs, and push us toward a full recovery. Instead, Republicans continue to block even the most commonsense economic policies, like renewing emergency unemployment insurance. It is past time for Congress to work together on initiatives that will positively impact the lives of hardworking American families, including increasing the minimum wage to a livable wage.” ###
02.04.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Feb. 3, 2014)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Secretary of Education Arne Duncan conveying the results of a Democratic Committee staff investigation that identified 111 schools that may be contravening the Higher Education Act by explicitly requiring applicants to submit forms other than the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or by failing to make clear that students must submit only the FAFSA to apply for federal financial aid. To see the full release and letter, visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Website.
01.29.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Jan. 28, 2014)—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), issued the following statement following the 2014 State of the Union Address: “I commend the President for correctly identifying growing economic inequality as one of the greatest challenges of our generation. For decades, the rich have been getting richer, the middle class has been shrinking, and millions have struggled mightily to escape poverty. Over the last 20 years, only half of low-income Americans moved out of the lowest income bracket, a figure that is unacceptable in the wealthiest nation in the world. “In today’s address to Congress and the American people, the President called for bold action to tackle this problem. The middle class is our nation’s economic engine. We need to help those in poverty join the middle class, and we need to help the middle class thrive, which means better jobs, better wages, better education, better healthcare, and stronger economic growth for our entire nation. “President Obama’s executive order to raise the minimum wage for federal contract employees is a crucial first step. I was proud to join the Congressional Progressive Caucus in proposing this action to the President last year, and I am very pleased he is adopting it today. Now it is up to Congress to follow the President’s lead, to move beyond gridlock, and to raise the minimum wage for all Americans. “Other actions can be taken immediately to address the gaping financial inequality among our citizens. One of the greatest threats to the financial security of low and middle income families is a medical catastrophe. Although the Affordable Care Act gave states the ability to expand Medicaid, some Republican governors have refused to provide this critical medical care to their constituents. In Texas and Florida alone, two million people could be covered today if their governors stopped playing politics with the lives of their own citizens. “To further shrink this economic divide, we must also address systemic issues that impede upward mobility. This means giving every student access to a high quality education and removing barriers that prevent too many from earning their college degrees. The recent bipartisan budget agreement also showed promise for other legislative action, including immigration. And, as we saw just this Saturday at a shopping mall in my home district, we can no longer sit idly by as more and more families grieve for loved ones lost to senseless acts of gun violence. “The President set forth a bold agenda for action to move our economy and our people forward toward greater prosperity. Now it’s time for Members of Congress to stop the politics of obstruction and do their jobs—passing legislation that will create jobs, grow our economy, and expand access to the American dream for generations yet unborn.” ###
01.23.2014	BALTIMORE, MD (Jan. 19, 2013) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings issued the following statement in honor of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, and announced plans to speak at the United Negro College Fund’s 31st Annual Martin Luther King Jr. Breakfast and American University’s Martin Luther King Jr. Week Celebration: “As we celebrate the life and contributions of Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., we must look at how far we have come toward achieving his great dream – but also how much further we still have to go. “Dr. King fought for the right of every American citizen to have equal access to opportunity, without being hindered by race, gender, or class. While children of every color can now hold hands and be friends, they may not receive the same education. While women can now work wherever they choose, they may not receive the same pay. And while we are all citizens of the wealthiest nation on the planet, that wealth is increasingly concentrated in a tiny sliver of the population. “Dr. King’s wish was for a nation in which every American had a chance at prosperity, and a shot at achieving the American dream. We can honor him and his legacy by continuing to fight for the programs and initiatives that protect the poor, expand economic opportunities, improve access to education and quality healthcare, and preserve the American dream for generations yet unborn.” Congressman Elijah Cummings Speaks at MLK Day Celebrations What: United Negro College Fund’s 31st Annual MLK, Jr. Breakfast When: Monday, January 20 at 9:00 AM Where: 7400 Greenway Center Drive Greenbelt, MD What: American University’s Martin Luther King Jr. Week Celebration Bruce Poynter Lecture When: Tuesday, January 21 at 7:00 PM Where: American University’s Mary Gradon Center 4400 Massachusetts Ave. NW Washington, DC ###
12.19.2013	BALTIMORE, MD (Dec. 19, 2013) — Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement on the release of a White House report detailing the benefits of the Affordable Care Act in Maryland: “Republicans continue to advocate for the repeal of the Affordable Care Act, despite the many benefits it offers to people in my district, and across the country,” said Cummings. “Repealing the law would raise premiums, allow discrimination based on pre-existing conditions, force women to pay for preventive services, and give the keys back to insurance companies. Republicans need to work with us to improve this law — not prevent my constituents and millions of Americans from accessing quality, affordable health insurance, some for the first time.” Among the benefits to Marylanders included in the report: More than 1.5 million individuals on private insurance have gained coverage for at least one free preventive health care service, such as a mammogram, birth control, or an immunization in 2011 and 2012, and an additional 547,600 people with Medicare in Maryland have received at least one free preventive service at no out-of-pocket cost. An estimated 2.5 million residents in Maryland with pre-existing conditions such as asthma, cancer or diabetes – including up to 320,000 children – will no longer have to worry about being denied coverage or charged higher prices because of their health status or history. Approximately 981,000 Marylanders have gained expanded mental health and substance use disorder benefits and/or federal parity protections. In the past year insurance companies have sent rebates totaling $143 per family to approximately 150,000 consumers. This comes as a result of new policies that make sure premium dollars work for the consumer, not just the insurer. In the first ten months of 2013, 45,900 seniors and people with disabilities have saved an average of $916 on prescription medications as the health care law closes Medicare’s so-called “donut hole.” 46,000 young adults in Maryland have gained health insurance because they can now stay on their parents’ health plans until age 26. Individuals no longer have to worry about having their health benefits cut off after they reach a lifetime limit on benefits, and starting in January, more than 2.2 million Marylanders will no longer have to worry about annual limits. Community Health Centers in Maryland have received $59,662,000 to provide primary care, establish new sites, and renovate existing centers to expand access to quality health care. Maryland has approximately 140 Community Health Center sites, which served about 292,000 individuals in 2012. Click here for the White House’s national report. Click here for the White House’s state-by-state report. ###
12.19.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Baltimore, MD (December 19, 2013) ― Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) was joined by Governor Martin O’Malley, and Congressmembers Steny Hoyer, Chris Van Hollen, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Donna Edwards, John Sarbanes, and John Delaney on a letter to the leadership of the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee expressing support for the Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act (S.1187; H.R.2788; H.R.2994). These bills would extend protections set to expire on January 1 that enable homeowners to negotiate a resolution with their lenders on their underwater mortgage loans without the threat of a large tax bill. “Congress should be doing everything in its power to help hardworking families still struggling to make ends meet as we recover from the recession,” said Congressman Cummings. “The Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act would renew existing protections that ensure struggling homeowners who receive the mortgage modifications they so desperately need are not taxed for these modifications. Renewal of these protections is absolutely critical.” "Extending the Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act will go a long way toward mitigating the long-term effects of foreclosure on hardworking families,” said Governor O’Malley. “While Maryland has passed what the Washington Post called some of the most ‘sweeping’ foreclosure reforms in America, we still have much more work to do to protect the dignity of every home. That's why we must exercise every possible option we have to help families get back on their feet again and foster strong, growing communities in Maryland and across the nation." “The housing market in Maryland was hit hard by the economic recession, especially in Prince George’s County,” stated Congressman Hoyer. “We ought to do everything we can to assist struggling homeowners as our economy continues to recover, and extending these homeowner protections beyond January 1 would provide important relief to families here in Maryland and across the country.” "While our economy is improving, millions of Americans are still struggling to make ends meet," said Van Hollen. "We should be helping people get on track with their mortgages, not whacking them with a huge tax bill when they're down. Renewing these protections will go a long way to help families who are working to keep their homes." “Struggling homeowners should not be penalized for doing the right thing by seeking a resolution with their lender before they reach foreclosure,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We must do everything we can to help families stay in their homes and off the streets and renewing these protections will go a long way toward that goal.” “There are many homeowners in my district and across the country who continue to struggle with underwater mortgages,” said Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards. “It is critical that Congress extend the Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act to ensure that they don’t face the additional financial burden of a large tax bill as a result of a loan modification.” “Middle class families who are struggling to stay in their homes shouldn’t have to shoulder the added financial burden of a hefty tax bill,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “It makes no sense to pursue mortgage modification policies and then tax homeowners because they have successfully reached a mutually beneficial agreement with their bank." “We all understand that the progress of the economic recovery has been too slow and the results uneven,” said Congressman Delaney. “That’s why it’s so essential that we do everything we can to allow more middle class Marylanders to maintain their hold on the American Dream. I thank Congressman Cummings for his leadership on this issue and his work to help struggling homeowners.” “Strong communities are built on the foundation of ensuring that everyone has a safe, affordable place to call home, and the Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act would continue to give us the tools we need to help families who are struggling as we recover from this recession,” said Lt. Governor Anthony Brown. “We’re always going to stand with Marylanders who are facing tough economic challenges, and never stop fighting for a better Maryland where neighbors continue to help neighbors, especially in their time of need. Our Congressional delegation are great partners in this effort, and I know that with their efforts and advocacy, we can make this legislation a reality.” ###
12.06.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (December 6, 2013) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement today in response to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ report that the U.S. economy added 203,000 jobs in November and the unemployment rate decreased to 7.0 percent: “This morning’s jobs numbers demonstrate the resilience of the American economy in the face of legislative gridlock. Republicans have largely abandoned efforts to pass responsible bipartisan legislation, instead staking out extremist positions and blocking every commonsense effort to reform things like our immigration system and our tax code, leaving Congress crippled. “With another budget deadline approaching, it is time to stop fighting and instead adopt a pro-growth agenda that will help strengthen of our country, including extending unemployment benefits that are set to expire at the end of this year. Too many Americans are struggling to earn a decent wage or have failed to find meaningful employment and are not benefiting from the economic gains of the last year. A nation as great as ours cannot turn its back on the working and middle class. We can and must do better.” ###
12.05.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE BALTIMORE, MD (December 5, 2013) –Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) released the following statement on the death of former South African President Nelson Mandela: “Around the world, Nelson Mandela served as a symbol for peace, progress, and unity in the face of hate and discrimination. He sacrificed 27 years of his life behind bars, harnessing immense personal and spiritual strength, to bring his country through the oppression of Apartheid. Above all, he refused to resort to violence, and never returned the vicious and hateful assaults of which he was so often a victim. “With Mandela’s passing, we have all lost an exemplary model of the kind of person we should all aspire to be – selfless, loving, and dedicated to justice for every man and woman. The legacy he leaves behind is not just the liberation of South Africa, nor the impression made during his time as President, but freedom and opportunity for all. My heart and prayers are with his family during this time of loss.” ###
12.02.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE BALTIMORE, MD (December 2, 2013) –Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) released the following statement commemorating World Aids Day on December 1: “Around the world, 33.4 million people are living with HIV/AIDS. More than 25 million have died since 1981 due this disease, and every year 50,000 more men, women, and children are infected. Baltimore ranks sixth among metropolitan areas for rates of infection. Each year, World Aids Day brings attention to this important cause. “We have the tools to prevent further infections, and treat those with the virus, allowing them to live normal lives. We must work together to halt HIV/AIDS in its tracks by supporting NIH studies, appropriating the highest levels of funding for disease research, and ensuring that HIV/AIDS medicine remains affordable and easy to access for those here at home, and abroad. We can ensure that in the next 20 years, no one dies from HIV/AIDS. “I urge everyone to get tested, know their status, and know that there are options to handle infection. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress, and partners in the advocacy community to achieve the goal of an AIDS-free world.”
11.27.2013	FOR IMMEIDATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Nov. 28, 2013)–Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), issued the following statement on the Thanksgiving Holiday. “Thanksgiving signals the start of the holiday season, a time to gather with family and friends. On this day each year, Americans across the country will sit down to a meal, give thanks for the people and things that matter most, and reflect on the history of our nation. That history is one of compassion, progress, and equality. Yet for too many Americans, a Thanksgiving meal is just out of reach, the result of a slow economic recovery or other hardship. They are veterans still seeking work, parents with part-time jobs, and children who will shape our future. We will never reach our true potential without reaching back to support them. “While we give thanks and reflect, we must also ensure that we strive to embody the values that built this country. I am thankful every day to live in the greatest nation on earth, and proud to proud to continue the fight to ensure everyone has an equal opportunity to achieve the American dream.” ###
11.25.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Baltimore, MD (November 25, 2013) ― Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) was joined by Sen. Barbara Mikulski and Congressman John Sarbanes (MD-03) in a call for support of the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) at a press conference at the Maryland Food Bank. The approach of the holiday season highlights the importance of the program, which could face cuts up to $40 billion if the House and Senate Farm Bill Conference Committee adopts Republican authored changes to SNAP. “Today, we heard firsthand accounts of hunger in our community – families who have found themselves in circumstances outside of their control, struggling to ensure they can put meals on the table,” Congressman Cummings said. “As the richest nation in the world, there is no reason we can’t feed every child – and SNAP is one way we can do that. The immense cuts proposed to programs like this take food out of the mouths of those in need. As a country, we can do better.” “As Maryland families prepare their tables to celebrate Thanksgiving, our most vulnerable need a government on their side so they won’t have to go to bed hungry. I want families to know I’m on their side,” Senator Mikulski said. “As a former social worker, I know the importance of nutrition assistance to those who need it most. I’m a fighter and a reformer. I’m fighting for smart federal investments that reflect our American values of protecting our country and neighbor helping neighbor. The Maryland Food Bank plays a critical role in delivering food to families who need it most. I will continue to fight for the thousands of Marylanders in need while making common-sense reforms and supporting our agricultural economy.” “For families who struggle to put food on their tables, the holiday season can be one of the hardest times of the year,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “Misguided cuts to food stamp benefits and other nutrition programs for the neediest among us make a bad situation worse. I will continue fighting against these devastating cuts and support policies that promote opportunity for all." ###
11.10.2013	FOR IMMEIDATE RELEASE BALTIMORE, MD (NOVEMBER 10, 2013)–Today, Congressman Elijah E Cummings (MD-07) released the following statement commemorating Veterans Day on Monday, November 11: “Our men and women in uniform make countless sacrifices, travel far from their families, and risk their lives in pursuit of one of the most honorable missions of all – service to this great nation. On Veterans Day, Americans honor the courage and valor of current and former servicemembers. But to truly honor these heroes, we must do our best to serve them when they return home. No one is more deserving of our help. “I am pleased with the Veterans Administration’s recent announcement that they have made progress in reducing backlogged disability compensation claims by 34 percent since March of this year, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House to bring that backlog to zero. I will also continue to support legislation that provides veterans with the economic opportunities and other services they deserve, like my bill H.R. 1842, the Military Family Home Protection Act. “Our veterans have earned the right to return home and find success in the country they worked so hard to protect. I pledge to continue to make that goal a reality.” ###
10.29.2013	Washington, DC (Oct. 28, 2013)—Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2481, the Veterans Economic Opportunity Act of 2013, which included provisions introduced by Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, to significantly expand home foreclosure protections for servicemembers, their families, and disabled veterans. To see the full statement, visit the Oversight and Government Reform Website here.
10.22.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (October 21, 2013) — Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) issued the following statement after the passing of former Congressman Major Owens of Brooklyn, New York: “In Major Owens, the interests of those who often go unrepresented in the halls of Congress found a steadfast and dedicated advocate. With his passing I have lost friend and colleague, and this nation has lost an exemplary public servant. During his 24 years in the House of Representatives, Congressman Owens was on the front lines of the fight to reduce poverty, ensure the economic success of our nation’s hardworking middle class, provide opportunities in neighborhoods that rarely saw them, and ensure the voices of his constituents were heard. That commitment to service for the underserved was an enduring legacy that began during his time with New York City’s Community Development Agency, and continued after he left the House to teach at Medgar Evers College. It was both an honor and a pleasure to serve with Congressman Owens, and my thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time.”
10.22.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (October 22, 2013) – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement in response to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ report that the U.S. economy added 148,000 jobs in October and the unemployment rate decreased to 7.2 percent: “The most recent jobs report indicates that our economy continues to grow, however I am concerned that growth has been stunted by the self-inflicted wounds of sequestration and similar ill-conceived legislative agendas, as many economists have stated. As the House and Senate enter budget negotiations, we must consider the impact our decisions have on the economy, and the lives of working Americans. We must abandon the political brinkmanship we have seen in the past weeks, and come together to provide responsible stewardship of our nation’s future with a plan that will create jobs, aid small businesses, and ensure security for homeowners.” ###
10.21.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (October 21, 2013) — Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement following the appointment of Lorraine C. Miller, the first African American officer of the U.S. House of Representatives, to the position of interim President and CEO of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP): “The NAACP has made a strong choice in appointing Lorraine Miller to serve as interim President and CEO, and I am confident that she will do outstanding work at the helm of that organization. Lorraine has a long history as a dedicated public servant and community advocate, having served as the first African American Clerk of the House of Representatives, an aide to Nancy Pelosi and John Lewis, President of the Washington D.C. chapter of the NAACP and a member of the NAACP’s National Board of Directors. I have no doubt that her experiences will bring a wealth of knowledge to the NAACP. I was honored to work with Lorraine during her time with the House, and I look forward to partnering with her in this new capacity as we continue the fight for economic, civic, educational, and social equality for all.”
10.17.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Oct. 16, 2013)—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement after the House voted to pass legislation to reopen the federal government and avert an historic default. To read the full statement, visit the Oversight And Government Reform Committee website here.
10.11.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Oct. 11, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement after meeting with Robert Benmosche, the CEO of American International Group (AIG), who traveled to Washington, D.C. to apologize in person for equating congressional and public criticism of AIG’s excessive bonuses during the financial crisis with lynchings in the Deep South. To read the full statement, visit the Oversight Committee website here.
10.01.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Oct. 1, 2013)—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement after the Republican House leadership shut down the federal government: “Today, a small group of Tea Party Republicans has taken our country hostage and forced our government to shut down as part of their extreme ideological crusade to overturn the law of the land and put insurance companies back in charge of healthcare decisions for millions of Americans. The Republican House leadership could avert this shut-down immediately by simply allowing the House of Representatives to vote on a clean continuing resolution, but they are placing internal Republican politics ahead of the best interests of our nation and our economy. It is time for House Republicans to abandon their irresponsible tactics and perform their most fundamental duty as Members of Congress.” ###
09.29.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Sept. 29, 2013) - Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement regarding the House of Representatives' passage of a continuing resolution that delays the Affordable Care Act by one year and repeals the Medical Device Tax. To read the full statement, visit the Committe on Oversight and Government Reform website here.
09.28.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Washington, D.C. (Sept. 28, 2013) —Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement applauding House passage of H.R. 3204, Drug Quality and Security Act, a bipartisan, bicameral bill that will improve consumer drug safety. To read the full statement, visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform website here. ###
09.27.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Washington, DC (September 25, 2013) —Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released a statement in response to the United States Postal Service’s Board of Governors announcement of its approved rate increase for market-dominant mail products slated to begin in January 2014. To read the full statement, visit the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform website here.
09.24.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Sept. 24, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in response to a statement by Robert Benmosche, the CEO of American International Group (AIG), asserting that criticism of AIG’s excessive bonuses during the nation’s financial crisis in 2008 “was intended to stir public anger, to get everybody out there with their pitch forks and their hangman nooses, and all that—sort of like what we did in the Deep South [decades ago]. And I think it was just as bad and just as wrong.” To read the full Statement on the Committee on Oversight and Governmnet Reform website, click here. ###
09.19.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 – Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) today introduced legislation to address the dental crisis in America. The bills – which would expand dental coverage through Medicare, Medicaid, the Affordable Care Act and the Department of Veterans Affairs – were filed one week after a new government study documented skyrocketing costs and limited access to dental care. The Government Accountability Office found that Americans spent about $108 billion on dentists in 2011 at charges that varied greatly for the same service. The GAO report was prepared for the Senate Subcommittee on Primary Health and Aging, which Sanders chairs. The panel last week held a hearing that also examined inadequate insurance coverage and government policies that discourage preventative care. “When people cannot get to a dentist when they need one, they often end up in emergency rooms. It just doesn’t make sense for us to spend so much money on those who wind up in hospitals but refuse to help people get the care they need before it’s too late,” Sanders said. Cummings, the House sponsor, said the legislation “puts us on the path to universal access by increasing the availability of care and expanding coverage to veterans, seniors, and low-income Americans. This is a critical step to addressing the vast differences in health care outcomes we see in our society.” The Comprehensive Dental Reform Act of 2013 is supported by the American Association of Public Health Dentistry, the American Dental Hygienists’ Association, the Children’s Dental Health Project, the Pew Children’s Dental Campaign and others. In addition to improving access to dental coverage, the House and Senate bills would address a severe and worsening shortage of dentists in underserved communities. The legislation would expand National Health Services Corps scholarship programs and authorize funding to increase access to dental services at community health centers and boost support for mobile clinics and dental clinics in schools. To read the Senate bill, click here. To read a summary of the bill, click here. To read the GAO report, click here. ###
09.16.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Sept, 16, 2013) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement after multiple shootings took place at the Washington Navy Yard this morning: "I’m deeply saddened by the senseless act of violence committed today at the Naval Yard in Washington, DC,” Cummings said. “I’m further pained that this assault took place against members of our armed forces, Americans who would put their lives on the line, but should not have to here at home. As we await further information from first responders and investigators on the scene, I pray for those families who have lost loved ones in yet another tragic occurrence of gun violence. “While we do not yet know the motivation of those involved, it is important that we ask ourselves whether lives could have been saved today if our nation’s laws did more to prevent guns from falling into the hands of criminals and those with mental illnesses. While we may not prevent every such tragedy, I’m certain that we can do more. “I hope that you will join me in prayer, for the resolution of this ongoing situation, for the families involved, and for a future in which we take action to prevent events like those of this morning.” ###
09.16.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Sept. 16, 2013)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement regarding the latest in a series of partisan Republican staff reports released by Committee Chairman Darrell Issa about the attacks in Benghazi. After making repeated unsubstantiated accusations against the Pentagon and the State Department, this latest report purports to find fault with the Accountability Review Board (ARB) that was established to make security recommendations after the attacks. You can read the full statement on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee website here. ###
09.13.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE BALTIMORE, MD (September 13, 2013) – On Monday, September 16, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, will offer remarks on the importance of access to housing at the Enoch Pratt Library in Baltimore. The event is hosted by the Homeless Persons Representation Project, a non-profit organization that provides legal services and systemic advocacy on behalf of people who are homeless or at risk of homelessness. Congressman Cummings will speak about the importance of housing for low-income working families and will participate in a panel discussion with other local leaders. What: Cummings Gives Remarks at Enoch Pratt Library on the Importance of access to housing When: Monday, September 16 at 7:00 PM Where: Enoch Pratt Library, Wheeler Auditorium 400 Cathedral Avenue Baltimore, MD 21210 ###
09.10.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Sept, 10, 2013) – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in response to news reports that Syria has accepted a Russian proposal to give up chemical weapons. You can read the full statement at the Oversight Committee website here. ###
09.09.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC (Sept. 9, 2013) – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement after National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) President and CEO Ben Jealous announced he would step down at the end of this year: “Under the leadership of President Ben Jealous, the NAACP has adapted to meet the challenges and needs of a new generation of minorities, while staying true to its core mission of ensuring economic, civic, educational, and social equality for all people. His diligent work has strengthened the organization, ensuring that it will be present to serve, educate, and advocate for years to come. I’m confident that he can be proud of the legacy he’ll leave behind, and wish him the very best in his future endeavors.” ###
09.09.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Sept. 6, 2013) – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement in response to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ report that the U.S. economy added 169,000 jobs in August and the unemployment rate dropped to 7.3 percent: “While job growth continues, we need to take all available steps to help speed and expand our national recovery. When Congress returns next week, we will face a number of important decisions that will have a direct impact on our economic future. We need to overcome partisan arguments that harm working Americans and come together to enact economic policies that will create jobs, help small business owners, and assist American homeowners.” ###
09.05.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE BALTIMORE, MD – Governor Martin O’Malley today announced nearly $1.5 billion in transportation investments for the Baltimore Metropolitan Region that will support more than 13,000 jobs, reduce traffic congestion, and revitalize communities. Governor O’Malley was joined by Lt. Governor Anthony G. Brown, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, U.S. Congressman John Sarbanes, Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, Howard County Executive Ken Ulman, and other key officials. Standing at West Baltimore MARC station, a future station on the Red Line, the Governor highlighted $689 million in investments for the Red Line project, including $519 million for construction. “Thanks to the better choices we’ve made together, we’ve been able to put hardworking Marylanders back to work,” said Governor O’Malley. “That didn’t happen by accident. To create jobs, a modern economy requires modern investments like the ones we are announcing today for the Baltimore region.” “Addressing our transportation needs here in Baltimore, and throughout Maryland, remains one of the toughest challenges we face as a state,” said Lt. Governor Anthony Brown. “As we look to the future, we must remain committed to building a 21st century transportation network that supports a growing, 21st century economy. The projects we’re announcing today are an important step towards ensuring that our state remains economically competitive, and Marylanders spend less time and money sitting in traffic.” Governor O’Malley today also delivered on his promise to launch the first-ever MARC Train weekend service by announcing service will start on Saturday, December 7, 2013 on the Penn Line. Saturday will offer nine round trips between Penn Station in Baltimore and Union Station in Washington, D.C. Sunday will offer six round trips between Penn Station and Union Station. With the Transportation Infrastructure Investment Act of 2013, which allows Maryland to activate long-term strategies to invest in Maryland’s transportation systems, the State is putting people back to work in the transportation industry with $4.4 billion in new investments in the next six years. Maryland will create hundreds of millions of dollars in economic activity and provide Marylanders with the transportation infrastructure necessary to grow and prosper for decades to come. Today’s announcement provides nearly $1.5 billion in key projects for the Baltimore Metropolitan Region, including: $46 million to operate the first-ever MARC Train weekend service. Service on the Penn Line will start onSaturday, December 7, 2013, and will provide nine round trips on Saturdays and six round trips on Sundays; $52 million for MARC Commuter Rail improvements to purchase 10 new diesel locomotives and to add two daily round trips to weekday service on the MARC Camden Line; $689 million in State funds for right-of-way acquisition, final design and to initiate construction of the Red Line ($170 million for right way and final design and $519 million for construction); $246 million to replace Baltimore Metro Subway’s 100 railcar fleet and 15 miles of signaling systems; $75 million in construction funds to build a new Kirk Bus Division transportation and storage building in Baltimore City; $12 million in operating assistance (FY 2014-2019) for the Charm City Circulator in Baltimore City; $29 million in right-of-way funds to reconstruct the existing MD 175 / MD 295 interchange near Ft. Meade in Anne Arundel County; $43 million in construction funds to improve key intersections along access routes to Aberdeen Proving Ground in Harford County; $29 million in construction funds to make safety improvements on I-695 at the Harford Road interchange in Baltimore County; $60 million in construction funds to improve traffic flow on I-695 at Leeds Avenue and replace two bridges in this vicinity in Baltimore County; $86 million in construction funds to widen I-695 Outer Loop from US 40 to MD 144 in Baltimore County; $8 million in construction funds to build a sound wall along I-95 near the Lawyers Hill Community in Howard County; $20 million in construction funds to provide streetscape improvements to MD 30 Business in Hampstead in Carroll County; $3 million in right-of-way funds to widen MD 140 at Painters Mill Road in Baltimore County; $7 million in construction funds to provide streetscape improvements to MD 755 in Edgewood in Harford County; $48 million in construction funds to widen US 29 northbound in Howard County; and $2 million planning project to examine adding a fourth lane on eastbound US 50 over the Severn River Bridge from Rowe Boulevard to MD 2 and other improvements to reduce traffic congestion at this well-known bottleneck in Anne Arundel County. “A reliable and well maintained infrastructure is vital to create jobs today in construction and jobs tomorrow through economic growth,” said U.S. Senator Barbara Mikulski, Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “These public investments in Baltimore’s transportation infrastructure are smart funding that is laying the groundwork for our future. Maryland can count on me to keep fighting for our state’s fair share of federal formula funding to help pay for improvements to our highways, byways and transit systems.” “Marylanders currently waste too much time, money and gas in gridlock. I’m proud that the federal government has been a strong partner with Maryland to modernize and add affordable, convenient transportation choices connecting Maryland communities with the places we live, work and play,” said U.S. Senator Ben Cardin, a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Transportation Infrastructure Subcommittee. “Robust investments in transportation infrastructure, including roads, rails and trails, are investments in job creation and economic development across the region.” “Once completed, these transportation investments will allow thousands of our neighbors throughout the Region to reach good jobs at a commuter cost that they can better afford,” U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings said. “Baltimore and Washington will both progress as MARC riders gain convenient access to MARC travel on the weekends. Howard County’s residents will travel on US 29 more efficiently and safely; and Baltimore City’s transit system will become more modern and better maintained. Our Governor, Lt. Governor and local leaders have understood these challenges and acted accordingly. For that, they deserve our appreciation and applause.” “These projects are exactly the type of common sense investments government should be prioritizing in this difficult economy. Investing in infrastructure – especially mass transit – is one of the smartest things we can do to create jobs, increase the competitiveness of American businesses and keep people and products on the move,” said U.S. Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. “Every American business and worker relies on safe, dependable and efficient transit and I am proud of the teamwork on that federal, state, local and private level that will get these projects moving.” “Building an efficient, safe, and reliable transportation network is critical to continued economic growth and making sure Marylanders can get where they need to go,” said U.S. Congressman John Sarbanes. “I will continue working with Governor O’Malley and my colleagues in the Maryland Congressional delegation to make investments that improve our physical infrastructure for the next generation while creating jobs and expanding our economy.” “Today is about showing the state that Baltimore City wants the Red Line and understands that building an integrated, world class transit system is critical for creating jobs and providing citizens with better access to those jobs,” Mayor Rawlings-Blake said. “ These critical investments are the key to unlocking Baltimore’s potential to grow and will create a regional transportation system that connects Baltimore to major job centers in surrounding communities.” “These projects, whether aimed at road safety, relieving congestion, or improving access to sustainable transit options all contribute to job creation, the health of our business community and a better quality of life for our citizens,” said House Speaker Michael E. Busch. “No County is more affected by traffic on the Beltway than Baltimore County,” said Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz. “I am very pleased that Governor O’Malley is funding more than $130 million for a variety of projects that will directly impact the lives of the thousands of commuters in the County. These improvements will also create thousands of jobs helping families and businesses all across the region. “ Over the summer months, Governor O’Malley announced a series of projects across the State made possible by the Transportation Act. The Maryland Department of Transportation’s (MDOT) draft six-year transportation budget was published yesterday. This budget, known as the Consolidated Transportation Program, provides a full list of the new projects funded by the Transportation Act. See attached $4.4 billion list of new projects. This budget is posted on MDOT’s website at www.mdot.maryland.gov. About the Red Line The Red Line is a 14.1-mile, east-west light rail link connecting Woodlawn in Baltimore County to the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center campus on the east side of Baltimore City. The Red Line is a crucial part of Baltimore’s comprehensive transit network as it will provide key connections to north-south light rail lines, Metro Subway, MARC train and numerous bus lines. The Red Line also will play an integral role in a Baltimore Regional transit system that connects people to employment centers, hospitals, restaurants, sports venues and cultural districts, and takes people to where they want to go. The Maryland Transit Administration (MTA) completed the Red Line’s Final Environmental Impact Statement in December 2012, and the Federal Transit Administration issued its Record of Decision in March 2013. MTA intends to develop the Red Line using a primarily design-bid-build approach, and award a sequence of contracts according to a contract packaging plan. The exception is a group of project elements that could be delivered through a public-private partnership (P3), a long-term, performance-based agreement between MTA and a private entity where appropriate risks and benefits will be allocated in a cost-effective manner between the contractual partners. Design-bid-build contracts will be utilized to deliver the majority of project elements including tunnels, structures, surface segments, surface and underground stations, elevators and escalators, utility relocations and stormwater management facilities. A group of transit elements will be examined for third-party P3 provision to include the railcars, operations center and maintenance facility, track, signals, and power, as well as maintenance of those elements. The private entity would be responsible for designing, constructing, operating, and maintaining the specific assets that are within the scope of the rolling stock and systems elements of the overall project. In return, MDOT will pay the private entity periodic payments, subject to performance deductions, which will provide strong incentives for the concessionaire to deliver high quality service for the assets under its responsibility. The Red Line is proposed to be funded with Transportation Trust Funds, federal funds, regional contributions and investments by the private entity. Pending funding, construction could start as early as 2015 and be open for service by 2021. Daily ridership in 2030 is forecast to be 54,000.
09.05.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ANNAPOLIS, MD - Governor Martin O’Malley and the Maryland General Assembly have taken swift action to protect Maryland’s safety net from the effects of federal sequestration, which is a series of automatic cuts mandated by law that threaten job creation and reduce vital services for families and children in Maryland and across the nation. The Maryland Legislative Policy Committee recently approved the O’Malley-Brown Administration’s proposed budget amendment that appropriates nearly $9 million in dedicated funds to support critical programs and services impacted by federal sequestration. “Congress’ senseless sequester and the resulting job-killing cuts are threatening our economic progress in Maryland and putting vulnerable Marylanders at risk,” said Governor O’Malley. “We were aware that Congress might make this mistake, so together with our partners in the General Assembly, we took emergency action and allocated $100 million in this year’s budget to protect Marylanders against the harm that these arbitrary cuts would cause to important initiatives like Head Start and Meals on Wheels. Since Congress has failed to fix its mistake, we’re now investing approximately $9 million of the money we set aside to help Marylanders by delivering meals to seniors, ensuring young children can continue early education, and restoring other vital services.” Senate President Thomas V. Mike Miller, Jr. added: “Maryland responsibly set aside $100 million in the Dedicated Purpose Account last session to ensure it would be available for this year’s budget to deal with the multiple effects the State is experiencing as a result of the sequester.We will continue to work together and be responsible at the State level but it is time for the federal government to do the same.” “Congress’s continued inaction on sequestration is hammering state budgets and service delivery to those who need it most,” said House Speaker Michael E. Busch. “The arbitrary cuts are disproportionately affecting low-income working people, who are most in need of safety net services to support their families. In Maryland, we made the prudent decision to plan for the impact of these cuts and backfill $100 million in the State’s budget. Now is the time for Congress to act, so that states can continue their economic recovery.” The Governor continues to urge action in Congress to avoid these job-killing cuts. The Governor’s FY 2014 budget, passed by the General Assembly, allocates $100 million to prepare for the impact of federal sequestration in Maryland. In total, the FY 2014 budget preserves more than $1 billion in cash resources between the fund balance and the increase in the Rainy Day Fund. The nearly $9 million in investments will be distributed to State agencies to restore critical programs and services to Marylanders. Nearly 500 low-income children will be able to participate in Head Start programs that will prepare them to enter school ready to learn ($4.1 million). Approximately 3,000 individuals will receive the substance abuse prevention and treatment services they need ($1.6 million). Approximately 3,000 older adults will receive 180,000 meals, 2,500 seniors will have access to health screenings, and 200 seniors will be provided with home and community-based services, including personal care and adult day care. ($1.4 million). Fifty individuals in need of vocational rehabilitation services will receive those services without delay ($800,000). Approximately 7,000 people will receive job placement and training assistance ($500,000). Seventy-five adult education classes serving about 800 students will be offered as planned ($400,000). “I am so proud of Governor O’Malley, Lt. Governor Brown and the entire Maryland General Assembly for taking action to protect Maryland’s jobs and Maryland’s safety net from the reckless cuts of the sequester,” said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski. “Sequestration sets Maryland and our Nation back instead of putting us on the road to prosperity. That’s why, as Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I’m fighting for a balanced solution to end sequester. Sequester is not the new normal. Instead, we must continue to invest in Maryland and America — in our infrastructure and in our people — to create jobs for today and jobs for tomorrow.” “Maryland’s most vulnerable citizens have been paying the price for this irrational, meat-ax approach to deficit reduction called sequestration. I commend Governor O’Malley and our state leaders for stepping in to ensure that Maryland’s seniors, children and families in need still have a safety net to see them through critical times,” said Senator Ben Cardin, a member of the Senate Finance Committee. “Sequestration is bad policy that hurts real families. We must replace it with a sensible, balanced federal budget that invests in our future and returns us to a time of strong, reliable federal-state partnership.” “I applaud the decision made by Governor O’Malley and the Maryland General Assembly to make new funds available to reduce the impact of sequestration on our state – but I certainly wish this action had not been necessary,” Congressman Elijah Cummings said. “The senseless cuts required by sequestration are threatening essential services and undermining our nation’s competitiveness and I will continue to work to end these cuts and put in place a balanced approach to deficit reduction.” “While it is unacceptable that Congress has failed to take action to replace sequestration, today’s announcement is welcome news,” stated Congressman Steny Hoyer. “I’m pleased that the O’Malley-Brown administration, in partnership with the Maryland General Assembly, has taken important steps to provide relief to Maryland families, seniors, the vulnerable, and others affected by this irrational process. I continue to believe Congress must replace the sequester in its entirety with a balanced alternative, and I urge Members on both sides of the aisle to work toward such an agreement as soon as possible.” “Governor O’Malley and the General Assembly have taken important action to mitigate the damaging impacts of sequestration on Maryland families and communities, but Congress must take up legislation to avoid further harm. I have tried to offer a plan to responsibly replace the sequester seven times this year, but have been consistently denied a vote by House Republican leadership. It is time for Congress to stop passing the buck to states and craft a federal budget that ends the arbitrary meat-ax cuts of sequestration and funds critical services like Head Start, job training, and Meals on Wheels,” said Congressman Chris Van Hollen. Federal sequestration poses a threat to Maryland’s ability to create jobs and expand opportunity. Working together, the State has now recovered 94 percent of the jobs lost in the national recession. In 2013, Maryland has created 17,800 new jobs posting job gains in five out of seven months. Over the past 12 months, the State has created 39,000 new jobs. Maryland’s dynamic private sector is leading our job growth creating 9 out of every 10 new jobs at a rate nearly 20 percent faster than Virginia. Because of the better choices made together, Maryland stands as one of only nine states with a Triple A bond rating affirmed by all three bond rating agencies – a seal of fiscal responsibility. Since taking office, the O’Malley-Brown Administration, in partnership with the General Assembly, has limited average annual budget growth to the lowest level in recent history (2%), made record level cuts to State spending (in excess of $8.6 billion), and nearly eliminated the State’s structural budget deficit while continuing to target investments in job creation, public education and other shared priorities.
09.03.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC — Yesterday, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement about the proposed resolution for the use of military force in Syria. You can read the full statement on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here. ###
09.03.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin along with Representatives Elijah Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) today announced that the Maryland Port Administration has been awarded $10,000,000 in federal funding to expand the handling capacity at the Fairfield Marine Terminal at the Port of Baltimore through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program. Senator Mikulski is the Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, which funds DOT. Senator Cardin is Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Water Subcommittee and a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee. “This public investment in the Port of Baltimore is about jobs, jobs, jobs,” Senator Mikulski said. “From the dock workers who unload the ships to the manufacturers who rely on cargo transported by the ships, the Port means jobs. Through construction jobs today, preparing the Port for the bigger ships that will soon be sailing through the widened Panama Canal, we are supporting jobs tomorrow that will keep Maryland’s economy rolling.” “The Port of Baltimore is an economic engine for our state and a bell weather for our nation’s economic health,” said Senator Cardin. “Through a solid partnership with the federal government, we are ensuring that the Port of Baltimore is well positioned for the future. Such investments translate into greater activity for the Port and more jobs for Marylanders.” “The announcement that the Port of Baltimore has been selected to receive a TIGER grant to fund the completion of the Fairfield Terminal is great news for the Port, the State of Maryland, and all of the customers who will be able to use the terminal,” Congressman Cummings said. “This investment, which will expand the movement of freight while supporting jobs and adding to our State’s economic growth, is precisely the kind of improvement the TIGER program was created to make.” “Already one of Maryland’s biggest economic engines, the Port of Baltimore will now be able to support more hard-working families with the help of this federal grant,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “This is exactly the type of common sense investment we should be making to spur job growth in our own community.” “The Port of Baltimore is one of Maryland's most valuable assets and this federal investment will increase the Port's capacity and create jobs,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “As our state's economy continues to expand, we must focus on smart investments like this one that spur growth and secure our future. I will continue working with my colleagues in the Maryland delegation to ensure the Port of Baltimore maintains its position as one of the busiest ports on the east coast.” According to the Maryland Port Administration, the project will expand the handling capacity at the Fairfield Marine Terminal at the Port of Baltimore. This project replaces an obsolete and dilapidated wet basin in the Port of Baltimore with a new 7.6-acre, rail-served cargo lay-down area within a strong export/import auto and roll-on/roll-off cargo terminal. The project completes a long-planned redevelopment of the Fairfield Terminal wet basin beneficially using dredged material from the Seagirt container terminal access channel as fill material, resolving navigation safety concerns for larger vessels and providing multiple regional and national benefits. Rail access in the project will increase intermodal flexibility for the export of U.S. manufactured cargo, and will return the area to a state of good repair for the benefit of the overall transportation system. The Port of Baltimore is a major economic engine for America and Maryland, supporting more than 50,000 jobs across the state – including 14,630 direct jobs. Among U.S. ports, Baltimore receives the top rank for handling roll on/roll off cargo, trucks, imported forest products, and imported gypsum and sugar. It is also the largest automobile exporter and importer in the country. ###
08.16.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings issued the following statement in response to news from the Department of Education that Secretary Arne Duncan will reconsider recent changes to Parent PLUS Student loan award policies: "I applaud Secretary Arne Duncan and the Department of Education for committing to review the changes it recently made on how to award Parent PLUS loans. With the cost of attaining quality higher education ever increasing, this decision could significantly impact the numbers of first-generation and minority students who pursue a college education. I hope Secretary Duncan will move with all deliberateness to reestablish policies that support greater access to education, and consequently, the American dream." ###
08.02.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement today in response to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ report that the U.S. economy added 162,000 jobs in July and the unemployment rate decreased to 7.4 percent: “This morning’s jobs numbers are encouraging but significant work remains to heal our economy and to support the continued creation of good-paying, full-time jobs. Rather than wasting the last days of the House’s session before the August recess considering message bills that do nothing to address our most pressing challenges, Congress should act to end the sequestration cuts called ‘unrealistic and ill-conceived’ by the Republican Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee and to make the strategic investments in our nation that will advance our economic recovery.” ###
08.01.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Aug. 1 2013)—Today, Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings and Gerry Connolly, as the top Democrats on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Inspector General J. Russell George requesting that he testify at tomorrow’s hearing regarding the status of his objection to the IRS producing documents relating to the scrutiny of progressive applicants for tax exempt status. You may read the letter on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here. ###
08.01.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (August 1, 2013) -- Today, U.S. Rep. Elijah E. Cummings and U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (both D-MD) introduced the Witness Security and Protection Grant Program Act of 2013, legislation that directs the Attorney General to make competitive grants to state and local governments to establish and maintain short-term witness protection programs in cases involving homicides, violent felonies, serious drug offenses, gang related crimes, or organized crime. “Without witnesses, the wheels of justice will come to a screeching halt,” said Rep. Cummings. “Witness intimidation remains a significant challenge in many communities around this nation, including in Maryland. The legislation Senator Cardin and I introduced today would help state and local governments provide the specific kinds of services needed to protect witnesses and ensure they feel safe enough to testify in court.” "Our criminal justice system is not working effectively when prosecutors are forced to choose between funding costly investigations and protecting witnesses,” said Senator Cardin. "This legislation will help ensure that state and local prosecutors and other law enforcement officials are equipped with the necessary resources to fight this epidemic that is poisoning our communities.” The Witness Security and Protection Grant Program Act of 2013 (H.R. 2884/S.1418) would provide $150 million in competitive grants -- $30 million a year for five years -- to state, local and tribal governments to establish witness assistance programs. The bill also requires the Attorney General to collect data and develop best practices from the grantees and report this information back to Congress, States and other relevant entities. The Attorney General is also directed to ensure that, as practicable, grants are given to an equitable geographical distribution of programs throughout the country. ###
08.01.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (August 1, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, applauded the House Veterans Affairs Committee’s passage of legislation he introduced with five other Ranking Members earlier this year to help protect servicemembers, surviving spouses, and veterans with disabilities from improper home foreclosure actions. You may read the full statement on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here. ###
07.31.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMembers Urge Action on Legislation to Protect Nation’s Drug Supply Washington, DC (July 31, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. John Tierney, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on National Security, Homeland Defense and Foreign Operations, released a report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on the oversight of pharmaceutical drug compounding. Cumming and Tierney requested the report last year after a fungal meningitis outbreak from a contaminated compound drug led to more than 50 deaths and hundreds of illnesses. You may read the full report on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here. ###
07.31.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (July 31, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in response to House Republicans’ decision to pull three “Government Abuse Week” bills from the suspension calendar because they lacked the votes to pass them. You may read the full statement on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here. ###
07.29.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (July 29, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Chairman Issa objecting to his use of selective transcript excerpts to accuse the IRS of targeting conservative groups by referring them to the Review of Operations Unit (ROO) after they were approved for tax-exempt status. You may read the full letter on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here. ###
07.24.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Funds in the federal checkbook will be used to hire 11 firefighters in Baltimore County WASHINGTON – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin and Representatives C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) today announced that the Baltimore County Fire Department has been awarded $1,052,403 in federal funding to hire 11 firefighters through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. A hiring preference will be given to military veterans. “I congratulate the Baltimore County Fire Department for earning the SAFER Grant. These funds will ensure that our firemen and women will have all of the critical resources they need - including sufficient depth in staffing - to serve the County most efficiently and effectively,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has made this investment in our first responders and I am confident that this endowment will only further the Department's commitment to serving and protecting the residents of Baltimore County.” The Baltimore County Fire Department will use the award funds to hire and fill 11 firefighter positions that were eliminated in fiscal year 2013 due to budget restrictions. Using grant funds would decrease the current expenses related to filling vacancies and ensure that the department will not need to reduce services or shift the staffing burden to volunteers. These 11 firefighters will directly provide fire suppression, hazard mitigation, fire and safety education and emergency medicals services to Baltimore communities. The goal of any SAFER grant is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing. The objective of the program is to award grants directly to volunteer, combination, and career fire departments to help the departments increase the number of frontline firefighters, and to rehire firefighters who were laid off due to the economy. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) units have received over $131.5 million in fire grant funding, approximately $13.8 million of which was awarded to Fire and EMS departments in Baltimore County. ###
07.24.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (July 24, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement after the Oversight Committee voted on a partisan basis to pass H.R. 2748, the Postal Reform Act of 2013, which was introduced by Committee Chairman Darrell Issa. You may read the full press release and statement on the Oversight Committee by clicking here. ###
07.22.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC -- Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings hosted a health care reform enrollment forum for small businesses which will explain the benefits and new timelines for small businesses seeking to claim health insurance tax credits. Following the forum, at 10:30 AM, Cummings participated in a press conference to announce small business health care tax credits available under the Affordable Care Act. Other participants included: Maryland Comptroller Peter Franchot; Carolyn Quattrocki, Executive Director, Maryland Governor’s Office of Health Care Reform; Hank Greenberg, Maryland State Director, AARP; and Nikki Highsmith Vernick, President and CEO, Horizon Foundation. Resources from the forum: Purpose and Benefits of the Affordable Care Act - PowerPoint presented by Congressman Elijah E. Cummings Maryland Health Connection Update - PowerPoint presented by Tequila Terry, Maryland Health Benefit Exchange
07.17.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Releases Key New Information Omitted from Republican Letter Washington, D.C. (July 17, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Committee Chairman Darrell Issa criticizing his release in a letter earlier today of selected, partial excerpts from transcripts of interviews with IRS employees conducted by Committee staff. You may read the full letter on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here. ###
07.17.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, applauded Baltimore’s New Psalmist Baptist Church for its efforts to renovate the Baltimore City Northwestern District Police Station on Reisterstown Road: “I commend my pastor, Bishop Walter S. Thomas, and New Psalmist Baptist Church for their commitment to opening the front doors of a vital resource in Northwestern Baltimore,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is my hope that churches throughout Baltimore will find innovative ways to enable residents to work in partnership with the Baltimore Police Department to help keep their neighborhoods safe.” The New Psalmist Baptist Church donated $40,000 to renovate the Northwestern District Police Station, providing for a new entrance and lobby. The front entrance of the station had been closed since 1998. Congressman Cummings has been a member of New Psalmist Baptist Church for 32 years. ###
07.17.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (July 17, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, introduced legislation to return the U.S. Postal Service to long-term solvency and sustainability. The Innovate to Deliver (I2D) Act of 2013 (H.R. 2690) would address the agency’s financial challenges through innovative structural changes. You may read more about Cummings' legislation on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here. ###
07.16.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE No Evidence Whatsoever of Political Motivation or White House Involvement Directly Contradicts “Sustained and Systematic” Republican Campaign Washington, DC (July 16, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a memo ahead of Thursday’s Committee hearing on accusations that the White House and Obama Administration used the IRS as a political tool to target the President’s political enemies. The Cummings memo includes new information from all 15 interviews of IRS employees conducted by the Committee over the past two months—including six self-identified Republicans working in both Cincinnati and Washington D.C. Read the full memo on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here.
07.16.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (July 16, 2013) - Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in response to the Senate’s confirmation today of Richard Cordray to continue leading the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). You may read the full statement on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here. ###
07.14.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement in response to a Florida jury finding George Zimmerman not guilty of all charges in the death of teenager Trayvon Martin: “Today, my prayers are with the Martin family. I am disappointed in the jury's verdict, and heartbroken for the scores of young Black men nationwide for whom this verdict delivers a startling message: our fight for civil rights is far from over. There is still much work to do to ensure that all Americans have equal rights and protection under the law of this country. I commend Attorney General Eric Holder and the Department of Justice for moving swiftly and with due diligence to determine what the appropriate next steps are at the federal level, and I join my colleagues and Majority Leader Harry Reid in awaiting the results of that investigation. Let each of us pray now for one another and our generation of youth. We cannot allow the progress we've made as a nation to be rolled back. Not on our watch.” ###
07.05.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement today in response to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ report that the U.S. economy added 195,000 jobs in June and the unemployment rate remained unchanged at 7.6 percent: “Today's jobs numbers continue to illustrate the resilience of our country and our economy. It is now - and has always been - Congress' responsibility to ensure that our economic recovery continues, while ensuring that all Americans have access to the tools of prosperity: affordable housing, healthcare, education, and the opportunity to compete for good jobs. The time to act is now. I call on Congressional Republicans to abandon their policies that gut the essential programs so many of our poorest Americans rely upon, and instead support balanced legislation that will make day-to-day living easier for all Americans." ###
07.04.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement in response to the appointments of The Honorable Mary Ellen Barbera and The Honorable Shirley M. Watts to the Maryland Court of Appeals: "I commend Governor O'Malley on his decision to appoint The Honorable Mary Ellen Barbera as Maryland’s first woman Chief Judge of the Maryland Court of Appeals and The Honorable Shirley M. Watts to the Sixth Appellate Judicial Circuit on the Court of Appeals. In addition to making history, these selections reaffirm the state's commitment to protecting and pursuing justice for all Marylanders and generations yet unborn. Both The Honorable Mary Ellen Barbera and The Honorable Shirley Watts have my full support and I commend them for achieving such great honors." ###
07.04.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. –Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today issued the following statement commemorating Independence Day: "Independence Day gives us all an opportunity to pause and reflect on the many freedoms we're afforded as Americans. Today, as we spend time with friends and loved ones, I hope we all will take a moment to offer thanks for this great nation and the rights we hold so dear. Happy Independence Day to all. May God continue to bless America." ###
07.02.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. –Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today released a statement following the death of former Congressman William H. Gray III: “I am deeply saddened to acknowledge the passing of my friend, former Congressman William Gray. Rep. Gray was a visionary leader whose efforts to enforce equality and pursue justice on the behalf of the often-overlooked laid the foundation for many of our great social service and civil rights organizations. The impact of his legacy has touched not just America, but American relations with other countries as well. While his expertise and voice will be greatly missed, I know I join all of those whose lives he touched in committing to ensuring that we continue the fight for generations yet unborn.” ###
06.26.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Lerner’s Counsel Provides Legal Precedent and Offers to Testify Washington, DC (June 26, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Demorcat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Chairman Darrell Issa requesting that he take the preliminary, common-sense step of holding a Committee hearing with legal experts before requiring Committee Members to vote this Friday on a legal determination that IRS official Lois Lerner waived her Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination when she appeared before the Committee on May 22, 2013. Cummings also released a letter from Lerner’s counsel citing a dozen opinions issued by the Supreme Court, Circuit Courts, and District Courts explaining that “a witness compelled to appear and answer questions does not waive her Fifth Amendment privilege by giving testimony proclaiming her innocence.” You may read Cummings' full letter on the Oversight Committee by clicking here. ###
06.25.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (June 25, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling in Shelby County v. Holder that Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 is unconstitutional: “Today the Supreme Court rolled back one of the most effective safeguards to Americans’ fundamental right to vote. This decision significantly slows the march of progress we’ve made since the Voting Rights Act was first enacted in 1965. “There is still persistent voter discrimination that must be addressed, from longer voting lines for minorities to the racially motivated efforts to suppress the vote we saw in the 2012 presidential election. “The ball is now in Congress’s court. The Senate Judiciary Committee is already taking action to restore protections for minority voters, and I call on Speaker Boehner to exercise true leadership in the House. “This is our watch, and we must guard our rights—for ourselves and generations yet unborn. We must act swiftly and decisively, in a bipartisan manner as we did in 2006, to create a new formula to ensure that the Voting Rights Act remains a powerful tool to protect voters from discrimination.” ###
06.18.2013	FIRST-HAND ACCOUNT Manager Denies Republican Claims of White House Involvement or Political Motivation Washington, DC (June 18, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released to Members of Congress and the American public the full transcript of an interview with an IRS Screening Group Manager in Cincinnati who provided a detailed account of how Tea Party groups applying for tax-exempt status were first identified by the IRS. The Manager, a self-identified “conservative Republican” and 21-year veteran of the IRS, denies that he or anyone on his team was directed by the White House to take these actions or that they were politically motivated. You may read the transcript on the Committee website by clicking here.
06.14.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (June 14, 2013)—Today, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act with an amendment introduced by Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the top Democrat on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, that significantly expands home foreclosure protections for servicemembers, veterans with disabilities, and their families under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA). “Under current law, some servicemembers and their families are not receiving the critical protection they need, and banks are foreclosing on their homes at the very moment when our heroes most deserve our support,” said Cummings. “This bipartisan and widely-supported measure will ensure that our troops fighting overseas do not also have to fight here at home to keep a roof over the heads of their loved ones.” The amendment was co-sponsored by Reps. Mike Michaud, Ranking Member of the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Mark Takano, Ranking Member of the Economic Opportunity Subcommittee, John Tierney, Ranking Member of the National Security Subcommittee, Bruce Braley, and David Cicilline. The amendment, which was introduced last month as H.R. 1842, Military Family Home Protection Act of 2013, would: Stay home foreclosure actions when servicemembers are receiving hostile fire or imminent danger pay; Stay home foreclosure actions for a 12-month period for servicemembers on leave due to illnesses or injuries, for veterans who are medically discharged, and for surviving spouses of servicemembers whose deaths are service-connected; Double civil penalties for mortgage-related violations; Prohibit banks from discriminating against servicemembers, veterans, and surviving spouses who are eligible for these protections; and Require lenders to designate compliance officers to ensure that they protect the legal rights of servicemembers. The legislation is supported by the American Legion, Military Officers Association of America, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Gold Star Wives of America, and Disabled American Veterans. The legislation was the culmination of a two-year investigation by Cummings into illegal foreclosures against servicemembers, including multiple document requests to mortgage banks, federal regulators, and servicemembers, a congressional forum co-hosted with Senator Jay Rockefeller, and a bicameral staff report, Fighting on the Home Front, detailing how multiple banks had violated the SCRA by illegally foreclosing on servicemembers and charging fees in excess of those permitted by the SCRA. Last year, the House passed by an overwhelming vote of 394 to 27 a similar amendment introduced by Cummings, Rep. Bob Filner, Ranking Member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and Rep. Adam Smith, Ranking Member of the Armed Services Committee, among others.
06.13.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (June 13, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter seeking clarification of the reasons behind Committee Chairman Darrell Issa’s recent decision to reverse his pledge to release full transcripts of IRS officials interviewed by the Committee and requesting that he identify the specific text of transcripts he believes should continue to be withheld from the American public. You may read the full letter on the Committee website by clicking here.
06.11.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (June 11, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in response to a letter from Committee Chairman Darrell Issa reversing his position on releasing the full transcripts of IRS employees who informed the Committee that the White House was not involved in any way with targeting Tea Party applicants. You may read the full statement on the Committee website by clicking here. ###
06.06.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (June 6, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell Issa requesting that he honor his commitment to hold a public hearing with Ambassador Thomas Pickering and other members of the Accountability Review Board (ARB) within the next two weeks now that Pickering has complied with Issa’s subpoena and answered questions at a closed-door deposition. Ambassador Pickering and Admiral Mike Mullen, who led the ARB review of security in Benghazi, have sent two letters requesting the opportunity to testify before the Committee at a public hearing and to answer questions directly from Members of Congress. Cummings also reiterated a previous request that the Committee hold hearings with top military and intelligence officials to better understand how the U.S. government coordinated its security efforts in Libya and whether lessons can be learned to improve the security of all U.S. officials serving overseas. You may read the full letter on the Committee website by clicking here.
06.04.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (June 4, 2013) – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement regarding the Committee’s closed-door deposition of Ambassador Pickering regarding the Accountability Review Board’s review of the attacks in Benghazi. You may read the full statement on the Committee website by clicking here.
06.02.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (June 2, 2013) –Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement regarding Chairman Issa’s claim on national television this morning that interviews with workers in the IRS Cincinnati office show targeting of conservative groups was a problem that was coordinated out of Washington headquarters. You may read the full statement on the Committee's website by clicking here.
05.30.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today released a statement following the death of Dr. Harold A. Carter, Sr., pastor of New Shiloh Baptist Church in Baltimore, MD.: “My heart is heavy today in learning of the passing of Dr. Harold Carter, Sr. Pastor Carter was a true friend and mentor who blessed my life in countless ways. I often turned to him when I was facing difficult decisions, and he provided the wise counsel of a spiritual father. “Dr. Carter was a man of God. As a pastor, an author and a community leader, he built a strong ministry rooted in Christian faith and embodying the principles of civil rights and justice that were instilled in him in his youth. “My thoughts and prayers are with the Carter family. As we mourn a tremendous loss in our community, we can find comfort in knowing that Dr. Carter has reunited in Heaven with his wife of 48 years, Dr. Weptanomah W. Carter.” ###
05.27.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day: “It is my great honor to join Americans nationwide in recognizing Memorial Day. On this occasion we remember our soldiers by pausing to commemorate their service and sacrifice. We are all eternally indebted to the brave men and women who gave their lives to protect our country and way of life, and I extend my gratitude and prayers this Memorial Day and everyday to the families of our fallen soldiers.” ###
05.23.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (May 23, 2013)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, introduced H.R. 2129, The Defense Base Act Insurance Improvement Act, which would save taxpayers huge sums of money by transitioning the existing workers’ compensation insurance system for overseas government contractors away from private sector insurance companies to a federal self-insurance program. Learn more about this legislation on the Committee's website by clicking here. ###
05.22.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a senior Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, released the following statement in recognition of National Maritime Day: “National Maritime Day is the day we pause to salute the men and women of our Merchant Marine and to thank them for their service. Given the critical importance of the Merchant Marine to our economy and national defense, it is imperative that we enact policies that will support and strengthen our fleet and our mariners.” ###
05.17.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington D.C. (May 17, 2013)—This week, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, introduced legislation to address “gray market” drug companies that are taking advantage of the national drug shortage crisis to charge exorbitant prices for drugs used to treat cancer and other life-threatening conditions. Read more about this legislation and the Congressman's gray market investigation on the Committee website by clicking here. ###
05.17.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington D.C. (May 17, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement regarding the decision by Chairman Darrell Issa to go back on his commitment to hold a public hearing with Ambassador Thomas Pickering and Admiral Michael Mullen, who led the Accountability Review Board that examined security in Benghazi, and instead issue a subpoena to compel Ambassador Pickering to appear at a private, closed-door deposition with staff. You may view the entire statement on the Committee website by clicking here. ###
05.16.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (May 16, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement insisting that Committee Chairman Darrell Issa honor his commitment to hold a public hearing with Ambassador Thomas Pickering and Admiral Mike Mullen, who led the Accountability Review Board that examined security in Benghazi. You may read the entire statement on the Committee website by clicking here. ###
05.15.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (May 15, 2013) -- Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement regarding President Obama’s announcement of the resignation of Steven Miller, the acting commissioner of the IRS. You may read the full statement on the Committee website by clicking here. ###
05.15.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (May 15, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in response to the release of approximately 100 pages of emails relating to the attacks in Benghazi. You may read the full statement on the Committee website by clicking here. ###
05.14.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Entire Maryland Delegation United Behind University System of Maryland’s Application for One of Six FAA Unmanned Aircraft Systems Test Sites WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Steny H. Hoyer (MD-5), Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD),Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) and the bipartisan Maryland House Delegation, sent a letter to U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood today urging him to give the University System of Maryland’s Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) test site proposal his strongest consideration. The entire Maryland delegation strongly supports the University System of Maryland’s bid to be selected as one of six UAS test sites chosen by the Federal Aviation Administration. The letter was signed by Congressman Hoyer, Senators Mikulski and Cardin, and U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen, Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards, John Delaney, and Andy Harris. “The University System of Maryland’s proposal uses the collaborative strengths of higher education, industry, and state government to develop deployable solutions to increase the safety, efficiency, reliability, and security of our national airspace transportation networks,” the Maryland Delegation wrote. “The Maryland proposal will also give the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) the best opportunity to gain a better understanding of training requirements, operational specifications, and technology considerations. In addition, this proposal will enable researchers to develop and promote operational strategies to mitigate the increasing congestion and safety concerns of our nation’s airspace.” The full text of the letter to Secretary LaHood follows: May 14, 2013 The Honorable Raymond H. LaHood Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE Washington, DC 20950 Dear Secretary LaHood: We urge you to give the University System of Maryland’s Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) test site proposal your strongest consideration. The University has brought together leaders in the private sector and public agencies to accelerate the future integration of UAS into the national airspace. The University System of Maryland’s proposal uses the collaborative strengths of higher education, industry, and state government to develop deployable solutions to increase the safety, efficiency, reliability, and security of our national airspace transportation networks. The Maryland proposal will also give the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) the best opportunity to gain a better understanding of training requirements, operational specifications, and technology considerations. In addition, this proposal will enable researchers to develop and promote operational strategies to mitigate the increasing congestion and safety concerns of our nation’s airspace. The Maryland proposal also has the potential to resolve the possibility of UAS in the maritime environment based on the proposed test site locations which include private airports on the Eastern Shore and Southern Maryland, as well as federal facilities including NASA Wallops Island Flight Facility, NASA Langley Research Center, and the Naval Air Systems Command facility at Webster Field. The proposed UAS test site program will help the FAA gain a better understanding of operational issues, such as training requirements, operational specifications, and technology considerations, which are primary areas of concern to ensuring the safety and efficiency of the entire aviation system. The proposal will also bring together researchers across the diverse institutions of the University System of Maryland who concentrate on critical technologies, public policy and legal issues. Thank you for your strong consideration of our request. There is no better proposal to achieve the FAA’s goals to integrate UAS into the national airspace and solve the problems facing our nation’s transportation systems. ###
05.13.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESays Pickering, Mullen, Defense, and Intelligence Officials Deserve Chance to Respond to Accusations Washington DC (May 13, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, wrote to Chairman Darrell Issa requesting that he hold a public hearing on May 22, 2013, with Accountability Review Board (ARB) Chairman Ambassador Thomas Pickering and Vice Chairman Admiral Mike Mullen so they can provide information about their investigation of the Benghazi attacks and respond directly to serious charges leveled against them over the past week by congressional Republicans. You may view the entire letter on the Committee website by clicking here. ###
05.09.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement regarding Speaker Boehner’s statement that he learned at yesterday’s hearing on Benghazi about a September 12, 2012, email in which senior State Department officials stated that they had told Libyan officials that the attacks in Benghazi were conducted by Ansar al-Sharia. You may read the full statement on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here. ###
05.08.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement regarding today’s Oversight Committee hearing titled “Benghazi: Exposing Failure and Recognizing Courage." You may read the statement on the Oversight Committee by clicking here. ###
05.07.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (May 7, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E Cummings, as the top Democrat on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, joined Reps. Mike Michaud, Adam Smith, Susan Davis, Mark Takano, and John Tierney, the Ranking Members of the the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the Subcommittee on Military Personnel, the Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, and the Subcommittee on National Security, to introduce H.R. 1842, the Military Family Home Protection Act, to strengthen foreclosure protections for U.S. military servicemembers and their families. Read more about this legislation on the Committee website by clicking here.
05.06.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (May, 6, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement regarding recent allegations relating to Benghazi. You may read the full statement on the Committee website by clicking here.
05.06.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the following statement in response to Baltimore City Public Schools CEO Dr. Andrés Alonso’s announcement that he will retire at the end of the current school year: “I am tremendously proud of the service Dr. Andrés Alonso has given Baltimore City Public Schools and the State of Maryland. He has demonstrated his passion for education, commitment to our children, and dedication to service, and he will be missed,” Cummings said. “I join Mayor Rawlings-Blake and Baltimore City’s partners in education in thanking him for all he’s done for our children and wishing him well at Harvard and in his future pursuits. Dr. Alonso’s legacy leaves our community better positioned to ensure our children have all they need to succeed in the classroom and beyond.” ###
05.03.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement today in response to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ report that the U.S. economy added 165,000 jobs in April and the unemployment rate dropped to 7.5 percent: “I am very encouraged that the unemployment rate has dropped to a four-year low, demonstrating that our fiscal policies are working slowly but surely to turn the economy around despite the obstacles created by sequestration and other drastic austerity measures promoted by congressional Republicans. The fact remains, however, that 11.7 million people are still looking for work and about 2.6 million families are still in danger of losing their homes. We need to enact economic policies now that will build on our progress by expanding job creation, assisting small businesses, and helping American homeowners.” ###
04.27.2013	High School Artists from 7th Congressional District Honored at Reception Baltimore, MD – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) awarded top prize in the 2013 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” to Ginny Kim, a junior at Centennial High School in Ellicott, City, Md., at an awards ceremony at the Walters Art Museum Sculpture Court in Baltimore. Ms. Kim’s entry, ”The Greatest City in America,” is a photograph depicting a woman sitting on a bench. It will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year representing the 7th Congressional District. She will also receive a congressional citation and a gift certificate from Southwest Airlines. A photo of the winning entry is below. “I look forward to the Congressional Art Competition each year. It is a tremendous opportunity to highlight the diverse talents of the students in Maryland’s 7th Congressional District,” Cummings said. “Ms. Kim and all of the students honored today are an inspiring glimpse of the greatness that lies in this generation of future leaders. I am honored to recognize them.” Ms. Sophie Kessler, a senior at Baltimore School for the Arts, took home the runner-up award for her work, “Untitled Self Portrait.” Her artwork will be displayed in Cummings’ district office for one year. Seven students were awarded Curators Choice Awards by the curators of Baltimore-area art colleges and museums. Cummings also awarded merit certificates to all of the participating artists this year, who represented nine different schools from across the district. Each entry was judged anonymously by a panel of art experts . This is the 31st year for the competition. Since it began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated.
04.25.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELASE Washington, D.C. (Apr. 25, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, announced the introduction of H.R. 1706, The Mortgage Settlement Monitoring Act of 2013, to create an Independent Monitor to oversee the distribution of funds paid by mortgage servicers for illegal foreclosures and other abuses against homeowners under their settlement agreement with federal regulators. Original co-sponsors of the legislation include Ranking Members Maxine Waters, George Miller, John Conyers, and Henry Waxman, as well as Representatives John F. Tierney, Zoe Lofgren, and Jan Schakowsky. You may read more about the bill on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here.
04.25.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Partisan GOP Staff Report Misrepresents Key Document Washington, DC (April 25, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter calling on House Speaker John Boehner to formally retract a highly partisan Republican staff report he issued to the press earlier this week falsely suggesting that former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton lied under oath when she testified before Congress that she did not personally approve of security reductions in Benghazi. You may read the full letter on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here.
04.24.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) and Congressman Scott Rigell (R-VA) introduced H.R. 1678, the Saving Essential American Sailors (SEAS) Act, a bill to repeal Section 100124 of the MAP-21 legislation which reduced from 75 percent to 50 percent the amount of U.S. food aid required to be carried on U.S.-flagged vessels. “The senseless cuts made to the cargo preference program in MAP-21 dealt another blow to an already battered U.S. merchant marine,” said Congressman Cummings. “It is essential that these cuts be reversed and that we begin implementing policies that will strengthen our merchant marine by increasing the cargoes carried on U.S.-flagged vessels.” “Our region, indeed, our national economy, depends on a robust American shipping industry, and we must protect those jobs,” said Representative Scott Rigell (VA-2) who represents part of the Hampton Roads region and serves on the House Armed Services Committee and the House Committee on the Budget. “Further, we should not have to depend on foreign owned vessels to deliver cargo to our troops overseas. This legislation will ensure we keep Americans employed while defending the good men and women who are defending our freedom around the world.” In 1975, there were more than 850 ocean-going ships under the U.S. flag. At the end of 2012, there were just 109 U.S.-flagged vessels in the foreign trade. The Maritime Administration has estimated that the enactment of Section 100124 could cause the U.S.-flagged fleet to lose as much as $90 million in annual revenues and could drive additional vessels away from the U.S. flag. In a letter written in May 2011, General Duncan McNabb, Commander of the United States Transportation Command, indicated that “To date, over 90 percent of all cargo to Afghanistan and Iraq has been moved by sea in U.S. Flag vessels,” and he noted that U.S. cargo preference laws and the Maritime Security Program have helped in “ensuring the continued viability of both the U.S. Flag fleet and the pool of citizen mariners who man those vessels.” Without a U.S.-flagged sealift capacity, U.S. imports and exports would move solely on foreign, often state-owned shipping lines and the U.S. military would be left dependent on foreign-flagged, foreign-owned vessels manned by non-U.S. citizens to carry military cargoes. ###
04.23.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Apr. 23, 2013) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), as the top Democrat on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Energy Policy, Health Care, and Entitlements, asked the Inspector General of the Department of Transportation to review sexual assault and harassment prevention policies and reporting procedures established by the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Read their full letter on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here.
04.23.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Apr. 23, 2013)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, joined the Ranking Members of the Committees on the Judiciary, Foreign Affairs, Armed Services, and Intelligence to send a letter to House Speaker John Boehner strongly objecting to his decision to issue a partisan Republican staff report on Benghazi without any vetting for accuracy or consideration by Committee Members. You may read the full letter on the Oversight website by clicking here.
04.23.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Apr. 23, 2013) – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, joined Reps. John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) and Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) in sending a letter to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, Comptroller of the Currency Thomas Curry, and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Chairman Martin Gruenberg urging them to take immediate joint regulatory action to prohibit banks from trapping customers in high-cost payday loans. You may read the full letter on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here.
04.19.2013	How will local health care staffing agencies, community clinics, hospitals and Medicaid insurers find enough trained personnel to handle the increased number of health consumers the Affordable Care Act is expected to generate in 2014? The Medicaid Matters Maryland Affordable Care Act Workforce Development Forum, April 23, will examine how much progress has made regarding an adequate care network, where efforts are falling short and what can be done to resolve workforce recruitment issues. The forum, in collaboration with U.S. Rep. Elijah Cummings, will be held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., at the Jewish Community Center, 5700 Park Heights Avenue, Baltimore. Lunch is included. The forum is free, but you must be registered to attend. If you are concerned about Maryland having a diverse health care workforce, register now. If you are involved in primary or allied health care, register now. If you are preparing the next generation of health care professionals, register now. The forum will bring together workforce stakeholders such as the Alliance for Health Care Workers, Behavioral Health Leadership Institute, Centers for Independent Living, Governor's Workforce Investment Board, Greater Baden Medical Center and Harford Community College. In addition, presenters include the Maryland Association of Nurse Practitioners, Maryland Community Health Resource Commission, Maryland Health Care Transformation and Strategic Planning, Maryland Office of Health Care Reform, MedChi, United HealthCare Workers East and the University of Maryland Hilltop Institute. Please click here to register for this free forum. Registration required to attend.
04.17.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (April 17, 2013)—Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) issued statements after the Senate failed to pass compromise amendments that would have expanded background checks and strengthened penalties for illegal gun trafficking. You may read their full statements on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here.
04.16.2013	BALTIMORE, MD -- Congressman Elijah E. Cummings' 16th annual job fair connected nearly 3,500 job seekers with more than 60 employers and 40 resource providers, Monday at the Fifth Regiment Armory in Baltimore. In additional to speaking with potential employers, attendees could participate in workshops to strengthen their hiring power, including resume reviews and tips on conducting real-time job searches online. Cummings holds the job fair every year to connect constituents with employment opportunities. Multiple job industries were represented offering hiring opportunities for the unemployed, ex-offenders, those seeking to move ahead in their careers, and everyone inbetween. To view the full, final list of participating employers, click here. To view the full, final list of participating resource providers, click here.
04.16.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEProviding better training to acquisition specialists in the Federal Government can decrease costs and help get better results for taxpayer money Washington, DC – Today, Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee Chairman Tom Carper (D-Del.) and Ranking Member Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) joined Senator Susan Collins (R-Maine) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D-Md.) in releasing a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report that underscores the importance of providing adequate training to federal acquisition personnel. The report, titled “Acquisition Workforce: Federal Agencies Obtain Training to Meet Requirements, But Have Limited Insight into Costs and Benefits of Training Investment” reviews the effectiveness of training programs developed and overseen by two government agencies, the Office of Federal Procurement Policy and the Federal Acquisition Institute. The report examines the implementation of training programs for the approximately 83,000 acquisition personnel at non-defense agencies throughout the government. Acquisition personnel help agencies buy what is needed at the right time, at reasonable costs and ensure that contractors deliver what is promised. Ranking Member Cummings said, “This report demonstrates that, especially in eras of austerity, slashing training budgets is penny-wise and pound-foolish. Skilled professionals should be at the heart of the federal acquisition process, and adequate training is essential to that goal.” Federal acquisition programs and contracts have become more expensive and increasingly complex over the years. According to the GAO report, the shortage of trained acquisition personnel hinders agencies from managing and overseeing contracts effectively. As a result, the federal government is at risk for significant overcharges and wasteful spending. The top challenge reported by agencies in the report was obtaining adequate budgets to manage and provide training for their acquisition workforce. The report also found that when acquisition workforce training programs are implemented by agencies, there is a distinct lack of data collection on the benefits or effectiveness of the programs. As it stands, the data agencies collect on the cost of training is not comparable across the government. Read more about the report by clicking here. ###
04.15.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (April 15, 2013) -- Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. John Conyers, Ranking Member of the House Committee on the Judiciary, have issued a 26-page staff memo detailing the preliminary results of the Committees’ joint investigation into the role of the Department of Justice in urging the City of St. Paul, Minnesota, to withdraw its appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court in Magner v. Gallagher. You may read the full memo on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here.
04.14.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Finds Perez Effective in Combating Discrimination; No Unethical or Improper Actions by Justice Department Officials Washington, D.C. (April 14, 2013) - Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. John Conyers, Ranking Member of the House Committee on the Judiciary issued a staff memo detailing the preliminary results of the Committees’ joint investigation into the role of the Department of Justice in urging the City of St. Paul, Minnesota, to withdraw its appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court in Magner v. Gallagher. You may read the full memo on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here.
04.10.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Letter Challenges Decision to Withhold Documents from Congress on Illegal Foreclosures, Inflated Fees, and Fraudulent Court Filings Washington, DC (April 10, 2013)—Today, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, and Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Comptroller of the Currency Thomas Curry challenging the decision by agency staff not to provide any documents in response to a request from the Members of Congress seeking documents relating to violations of federal and state law by mortgage servicing companies. You may read the full letter on the Commitee website by clicking here.
04.05.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Chairman of the House Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, led 28 of their colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama urging him to support U.S. humanitarian food aid, strengthen U.S. farm production, and preserve the U.S.-flagged merchant fleet by maintaining level funding for the Food for Peace program in his fiscal year 2014 budget. “The purchase of food from U.S. farmers and its subsequent shipment on U.S.-flagged vessels has helped support U.S. farm production and preserve the U.S. merchant marine,” the Members wrote. “Reductions in funding for this program – or changes in how it operates – would significantly reduce the amount of U.S. farm products our nation could provide to those in need around the world. It would also threaten our national security preparedness by reducing the domestic sealift capacity on which our U.S. military depends.” Since 1954, the United States has provided vital food aid to the world’s poorest communities through the Food for Peace program, which ships U.S. agricultural products on U.S.-flagged merchant vessels to food-insecure nations. For six decades, this critical program has fed millions at risk of starvation and strengthened the capacity of local communities around the world to respond to natural and man-made disasters. In recent years, there have been significant cuts to the Food for Peace budget. Any additional budget cuts – or changes in the way the program is implemented – would reduce U.S. food aid to vulnerable populations while putting jobs in our agricultural and maritime sectors at risk. The letter sent by the members is provided below: April 5, 2013 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write today to affirm our strong support for the continuation in its current form of the “Food for Peace” program created by Public Law 480, and we ask that you maintain level funding for this program in the budget request you present to Congress for the Department of Agriculture for fiscal year 2014. Since 1954, Food for Peace has enabled the United States to play a leading role in responding to international food assistance needs and ensuring global food security. In recent years, Title II of Food for Peace, which is administered by the U.S. Agency for International Development, has become the largest vehicle for U.S. international food aid shipments. Under Title II, U.S. agricultural commodities are shipped to developing countries to provide emergency relief to those facing food shortages and to support broader development objectives. In fiscal year 2011, Food for Peace donated approximately 1.5 million metric tons of U.S.-grown Title II emergency and development food aid to more than 46 million food-insecure people in 48 countries including Kenya, Ethiopia, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan. Food for Peace is also critical to supporting employment among U.S. farmers and merchant mariners. The purchase of food from U.S. farmers and its subsequent shipment on U.S.-flagged vessels has helped support U.S. farm production and preserve the U.S. merchant marine. Reductions in funding for this program – or changes in how it operates – would significantly reduce the amount of U.S. farm products our nation could provide to those in need around the world. It would also threaten our national security preparedness by reducing the domestic sealift capacity on which our U.S. military depends. We look forward to working with you to support U.S. farms, U.S. jobs, the U.S.-flagged merchant fleet, and our nation’s ability to provide much needed humanitarian and emergency food assistance to the world’s least-developed countries by maintaining the Food for Peace Program. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Duncan Hunter John Garamendi Nick J. Rahall, II Corrine Brown Charles W. Boustany, Jr. Janice Hahn Gary G. Miller Linda T. Sánchez Michael M. Honda Frank A. LoBiondo Renee L. Ellmers Marcy Kaptur David P. Joyce Tom Latham Alan S. Lowenthal Gerald E. Connolly Stephen Lee Fincher Bob Gibbs Michael G. Grimm Marcia L. Fudge C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Don Young Richard M. Nolan Cedric L. Richmond Rick Larsen Cheri Bustos Kathy Castor Eleanor Holmes Norton Sheila Jackson Lee ###
04.04.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (April 4, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Rep. Gerry Connolly, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Government Operations, and Rep. Frederica Wilson from Florida’s 24th District sent a letter asking the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to examine why U.S. citizens had to wait so long to vote at many polling places across the country on Election Day in 2012. You may read the full letter on the Committee website by clicking here.
04.04.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (April 4, 2013) – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released a statement in response to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report on banking regulators’ review of foreclosure abuses. You may read the full statement on the Committee website by clicking here.
04.02.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C.— Representatives Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) are urging major banks to allow consumers to block automatic withdrawals taken from their accounts by Internet-based payday lenders. In a letter to the CEOs of the five largest U.S. retail banks, Cummings and Bonamici asked the executives to voluntarily adopt provisions of the Stopping Abuse and Fraud in Electronic (SAFE) Lending Act, H.R. 990, which they introduced in Congress earlier this year. The request follows a decision by JPMorgan Chase to reform the way it treats withdrawals from Internet-based payday lenders. You may read the full letter on the Committee website by clicking here.
03.26.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (March 26, 2013) -- Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released a new report issued by the Inspector General of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) finding that FHFA failed to properly monitor the business practices of banks that sell mortgages to or service mortgages for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to ensure that they follow all federal and state consumer protection laws when originating or servicing such loans. You may read the entire report on the Committee website by clicking here.
03.25.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (March 25, 2013) – Today, Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Comptroller of the Currency Thomas Curry accepting their proposal for a meeting to discuss the requests Warren and Cummings have made for documents relating to mortgage servicer abuses identified as part of the Independent Foreclosure Review. To read the full letter on the Oversight Committee website, click here.
03.25.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (March 25, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD), the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, joined Reps. Patrick Meehan (R-PA), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), and Scott Rigell (R-VA) in announcing that more than 100 Members of the House of Representatives from both political parties have signed on as co-sponsors of H.R. 452, The Gun Trafficking Prevention Act of 2013. You may read the full press release, and details about the bill, on the Oversight Committee website by clicking here.
03.21.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Banks Ignore Homeowner Complaints; New IG Report Faults FHFA Leadership Washington, D.C. (March 21, 2013) -- Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released a new report issued by the Inspector General of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) warning that mortgage companies that service loans backed by Freddie Mac “have largely failed to implement” requirements to resolve “escalated cases” of serious homeowner complaints alleging abuses such as improper foreclosures and fraudulent servicing practices. You may read the full report on the Committee website by clicking here.
03.15.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC – House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa, R-Calif., Ranking Minority Member Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., Government Operations Subcommittee Chairman John Mica, R-Fla., and Government Operations Subcommittee Ranking Member Gerry Connolly, D-Va., yesterday introduced the Federal Information Security Amendments Act of 2013 (HR 1163). You may read more about the legislation on the Committee website by clicking here.
03.12.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (March 12, 2013) – Today, victims of gun trafficking crimes and law enforcement officials charged with combating them shared personal stories and urged Congress to help keep guns out of the hands of criminals at a bipartisan House forum convened by Representatives Elijah Cummings (D-Maryland), Scott Rigell (R-Virginia), and Carolyn Maloney (D-New York). To view video from the forum and learn more about the legislation, visit the Committee website by clicking here.
03.07.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Mar. 7, 2013) – Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the highest ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a following statement after the Senate Judiciary Committee today passed a bipartisan gun trafficking bill introduced by Sen. Leahy by a vote of 11-7. You may read his full statement on the Committee website by clicking here. ###
03.06.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, joined Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-Oregon) in introducing the Stopping Abuse and Fraud in Electronic (SAFE) Lending Act of 2013 to help protect consumers from predatory lending practices. The legislation would enable consumers to stop automatic bank withdrawals from payday lenders, require that lenders abide by the laws of the state in which they are lending, ban third party “lead generators” that collect applications and auction them to payday lenders, and provide enhanced enforcement authority to federal regulators. Read the full press release on the Committee website by clicking here.
03.01.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings issued the following statement on the first day of Women’s History Month: “I feel a tremendous sense of gratitude today as I recognize National Women’s History Month, a month dedicated to acknowledging and honoring the contributions of great women past, present and future. “Without the strong women I’ve been blessed to have in my life, I would not be where I am today. However, this month isn’t solely to commemorate women of days gone by, but to inspire appreciation for the influential women who lead us now, and hope for the next generation to come. “I applaud all of the phenomenal women positively impacting their families, communities and our nation day-to-day, and I pray continued vision and victory to those following in their footsteps. Our nation is much stronger, much wiser and much better because of the care and contributions of each of you.” ###
03.01.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC (Mar. 1, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the first copies of furlough notices issued as a result of damaging across-the-board spending cuts imposed by “sequestration.” Cummings obtained furlough notices sent to criminal prosecutors across the country in United States Attorney Offices who are charged with prosecuting and convicting domestic criminals and international terrorists. Read the full press release on the Committee website by clicking here.
02.28.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings issued the following statement following the 286-138 House vote to pass the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013: “I was proud to vote in support of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act today. This is critical legislation that has equipped our law enforcement and government to aid and protect victims of sexual assault, domestic violence and stalking for nearly 20 years. “It is Congress’ responsibility to ensure that the laws of this land protect all Americans. Today I was glad to join with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that VAWA’s protections are continued and expanded.” ###
02.27.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement celebrating the unveiling of Rosa Parks’ Statue in the Capitol and reminding Americans that the work of the Civil Rights Movement is not yet complete: “Today, our country pauses to commemorate the courage of one, and to urge justice for all. “As we celebrate the unveiling of the Rosa Parks statue in Statuary Hall in our nation’s Capitol, across the street, the Supreme Court of the United States will consider a challenge to the constitutionality of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, which was passed in 1965 and repeatedly reauthorized by Congress to address widespread and systemic voting discrimination. “The irony of these two occasions couldn’t be starker. Rosa Parks’ decision to remain seated empowered us to stand, but the struggle she began is not over – and we must continue to fight to protect the fundamental right to vote for generations yet unborn. “The clearest argument in support of Section 5 was made just months ago when Americans nationwide endured long waits, often in uncomfortable conditions, just to cast their ballots. I hope our Justices remember the November elections and protect the Voting Rights Act.” As part of a broad effort to promote the integrity of our nation’s elections, Ranking Member Cummings launched an investigation last year into alleged efforts to suppress the vote through voter registration fraud and voter challenges. The investigation looked into reported allegations of widespread voter registration fraud by Strategic Allied Consulting, a company owned by longtime GOP consultant Nathan Sproul. It also examined the actions of True the Vote, a Tea Party organization that claims to promote “voter integrity” efforts. True the Vote sought to make it harder for Americans to vote by challenging the registration of thousands of legitimate voters across the country before Election Day. They also deployed volunteers across the country to challenge access to the polls for legitimate voters. ###
02.27.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Death of twelve-year-old boy inspired statewide pediatric dental reforms Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings issued the following statement commemorating the sixth anniversary of the death of Deamonte Driver, a 12-year old Maryland boy who died after a tooth infection spread to his brain: “My heart is heavy today, as it is every year at this time. The senseless loss of such a beautiful child, who had his entire life ahead of him – a life full of possibilities – saddens and angers me. While the knowledge that an $80 procedure could have spared Deamonte’s life is discouraging, perhaps what is most disheartening is the fact that Deamonte’s story is not unlike the story of so many others – families overlooked and forgotten simply because of where they live and their socioeconomic status. This is unacceptable,” Cummings said. “I am humbled, however, that God has turned the pain of Deamonte’s death into a passion. There isn’t a day that goes by that I am not grateful that I can use my platform to help families like Deamonte’s who cannot help themselves. I will continue to work to expand access to quality, affordable dental care for all Americans to honor Deamonte – the life he lived, and the future we never got to see.” Deamonte Driver’s death sparked a number of sweeping dental reforms in Maryland to address the state’s dental access crisis. “Since the loss of Deamonte Driver, the development of the Maryland Oral Health Plan: 2011 – 2015 and the launch of the Healthy Teeth/Healthy Kids oral health literacy campaign - created using funds obtained by Maryland’s congressional delegation - have given focus and support to the great work of the many partners statewide who are continuing the progress that began after this tragic event,” said Penny Anderson, executive director of the Maryland Dental Action Coalition. “In Maryland, there remains a passion around this issue. However, while we have made great progress, there are still improvements to be made, particularly regarding care for adults.” In 2007, Governor Martin O’Malley prioritized support for community-based oral health grants annually by creating the Oral Health Safety Net Program to expand the oral health capacity for low-income, disabled, and Medicaid populations. As a result, Marylanders in every county now have access to a public health dental clinic that is located within or serves their jurisdiction. ###
02.22.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington DC – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings and U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara Mikulski are urging the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to reconsider its just-released final rule on the children’s dental care provisions in the Essential Health Benefits Package to be offered in health exchanges, starting in 2014. Just days before the six-year anniversary of the tragic death of 12-year-old Marylander Deamonte Driver, who lost his life after a tooth infection, HHS has weakened the provisions that would guarantee affordable dental coverage for all American children. "I am deeply disappointed that the final rule on Essential Health Benefits does not include important protections for families who enroll in stand-alone dental plans. This is a discouraging development as we are just a few days shy of the anniversary of 12-year-old Deamonte Driver’s tragic death,” said Congressman Cummings. “HHS’ decision could pose a significant affordability barrier for many families and create an additional out-of-pocket expense for others, many of whom already have to choose between receiving proper dental care and putting food on the table. I will continue to work to expand dental coverage for all Americans and encourage states to establish rules that guarantee affordable dental access for families.” “Deamonte Driver’s story is a heart-breaking example of how important oral health is to overall health. If this rule is allowed to stay as-is, HHS will take the bite out of the provisions we fought for that would ensure no child would ever again have to risk his life from something as treatable as tooth decay. I will pursue every route available to make certain that children can receive the affordable oral health benefits that Congress intended,” said Senator Cardin, whose provision creating a guaranteed dental benefit was included in the 2009 reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and then in the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “Unfortunately, with this new rule, American families could be subjected to prohibitive out-of-pocket costs and the definition of ‘affordable’ cost-sharing for pediatric dental coverage would be left to the states.” “In the United States of America, we shouldn’t lose kids because they don’t have access to a dentist,” Senator Mikulski said. “In the Affordable Care Act, we made sure that American children would have access to affordable, quality dental care. The Department of Health and Human Services needs to make sure that promise is fulfilled. Deamonte Driver died because he didn’t have access to dental care. This did not happen in some foreign country, it happened in Maryland. The way we honor his memory is to ensure that no child ever dies of a curable tooth infection ever again.” ###
02.15.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 15, 2013 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Elijah E. Cummings issued the following statement after the announcement of his reappointment to the Joint Economic Committee (JEC): “I am honored to be reappointed to the Joint Economic Committee and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to address our nation’s economic and employment challenges. “Our work on the JEC will play a critical role in supporting the continued recovery of our fragile economy, and in protecting the middle class and the most vulnerable among us. As our nation looks to move forward together, I hope that the JEC will embody the bipartisan spirit our country needs – and that voters asked for – by putting the urgent concerns of Americans before any political agendas.” This will be Cummings’ fifth term on the JEC. He was first appointed in March 2005. ###
02.14.2013	Washington, DC (Feb. 14, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Chairman Darrell Issa requesting that the Committee hold a series of hearings in light of today’s historic announcement that the nonpartisan experts at the Government Accountability Office (GAO) for the first time have added climate change to their High Risk Report warning about the most pressing challenges facing the nation and the federal government. You can read the full letter Rep. Cummings sent with Chairman Darrell Issa, as well as Cummings' full opening statement, on the Committee website by clicking here.
02.12.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 12, 2013 Washington, D.C. (Feb. 12, 2013) – Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement after the State of the Union address by President Barack Obama: “Tonight, the President laid out a comprehensive plan to promote economic growth, create good paying jobs, and continue our nation’s economic recovery. This is truly a make or break moment for our country, and the President demonstrated forcefully that he is committed to making the American dream attainable for all Americans. Congressional Republicans need to heed the President’s challenge, stop manufacturing false political crises that harm our economy, and turn to the serious job of governing. We must all work together to find common ground and, if possible, higher ground to build an economy that works for everyone. “I was particularly encouraged that the President highlighted smart investments we can make now to grow our economy and increase competitiveness in the long-term. The American people want every citizen to pay their fair share – including the ultra-rich who have enjoyed tax breaks for far too many years – while we maintain our commitment to our nation’s most vulnerable, like our seniors. “I also applaud President Obama for challenging Congress to address senseless gun violence in this country. This is an extremely personal issue for me as I lost my nephew to gun violence. We must pursue common sense solutions to gun violence, like the legislation to combat gun trafficking that I introduced last week with support from Democrats and Republicans alike. It is my hope that we can put aside politics, disregard partisan rhetoric, and work together on reforms that everyone can agree on. “I was also pleased to hear the President call on Congress to immediately tackle the issue of protecting voting rights in this country. Voting is a fundamental right that every eligible American is entitled to – not a privilege reserved for a select few. Eligible voters should not be prevented from casting their ballots because of long lines and inaccurate voter records. We’re better than that as a nation, and we need to protect the right of every single eligible voter to access the ballot box.”
02.07.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 7, 2013 Washington, DC – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement recognizing National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day 2013: "It is with somberness and hope that I acknowledge the 13th National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness day today, set aside to increase awareness about this preventable disease that continues to disproportionately impact the African American community. "The Centers for Disease Control reports that African Americans, more than any other racial group, continue to bear the greatest burden of HIV in our nation, accounting for almost half of all new HIV infections in 2010. Of that number, Black men represent almost one-third of all new HIV infections and 70 percent of new HIV infections in the Black community. "We do not have to continue to lose our loved ones to this horrible disease. And we should not. "Today, I pause to urge everyone to get tested, know your status, and live responsibly. Knowledge is power and when it comes to HIV/AIDS, what you don’t know could cost you your life." According to a report from the Kaiser Family Foundation, Maryland had the second highest rate of AIDS diagnoses in the country in 2010. That year, Baltimore ranked 5th out the nation’s 10 metropolitan areas with the highest AIDS prevalence according to the Centers for Disease Control. ###
02.04.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement commemorating the 100th birthday of Rosa Parks: “Today, I join many in pausing to acknowledge what would be the 100th birthday of civil rights leader Rosa Parks. Ms. Parks’ act of quiet, civil disobedience nearly 60 years ago ignited a nationwide movement that changed the course of our country forever. “My hope is that we will honor Ms. Parks’ birthday – and her legacy – by taking inventory of how infinitely blessed we each are. Ms. Parks taught us all how to stand by remaining in her seat; and now we stand on her shoulders. For that we should all be grateful.” ###
02.03.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement congratulating the Baltimore Ravens on their 34-31 victory tonight over the San Francisco 49ers in Super Bowl XLVII: “I am tremendously proud of the Baltimore Ravens tonight, and I'm extremely excited for the team and our city. “This win is a testament to the can-do attitude of Baltimoreans. Ninety-five percent of the commentators counted the Ravens out. They said we couldn't win this game, that we'd lose and it just couldn't be done. But few things unite a city and a region like a team, and tonight we showed the country how Baltimore faces a challenge: we band together and do what must be done. “I congratulate the Baltimore Ravens on this win and I'm sure I stand with all Ravens fans - and football fans alike - in thanking Ray Lewis for all he brought to the game and wishing him well in his next endeavors. This is the perfect end to a great season, and for Ray, a wonderful career.” ###
02.01.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement acknowledging the beginning of Black History Month 2013: “I am excited to welcome Black History Month this year. On the heels of President Obama’s historic inauguration, Black History Month presents a great opportunity to reflect on the many great African Americans, past and present, who have made tremendous contributions to our way of life and are now an indelible part of this nation’s fabric. “I would encourage each of us to not only remember the accomplishments of Dr. King , Malcolm X , and other great leaders of past generations, but to also identify those in our own neighborhoods and networks, who make great sacrifices to enrich the lives of those around them. “I cannot help but think of the Rev. Vernon Dobson, Clarence M. Mitchell, III, and Delegate Hattie Harrison; three of the many great Black visionaries and change agents in Maryland who we recently lost. Indeed, the aspirations of those who came before us continue to inspire greatness among us. “My prayer is that as we celebrate Black History Month this year we will remember those who blazed a trail before us, acknowledge those who lead us now, and embrace the potential for greatness in each of us.” ###
01.31.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, D.C. (Jan. 31, 2013) -- Today, Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Comptroller of the Currency Thomas Curry seeking documents relating to their recent settlement with mortgage servicers that ended the Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR) process. Read the letter in its entirety on the Committee website by clicking here. ###
01.29.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement on the passing of Maryland State Delegate Hattie N. Harrison: "I extend my deepest sympathies to the family of Delegate Hattie Harrison. "I was honored to serve alongside Delegate Harrison for nearly 15 years and in that time I came to know her as one of our state's most thoughtful and dedicated legislators. "Delegate Harrison was not just a committed lawmaker. She was also a passionate public servant who understood the importance of reaching back to bring others along. That spirit of giving back endeared her to constituents and colleagues alike. She will be sorely missed." ###
01.28.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement on the passing of the Rev. Vernon Dobson: “It is with great sadness I acknowledge the passing of my dear friend and mentor, the Rev. Vernon Dobson. He was a visionary leader who turned his passion for helping others into a mission to improve our communities. “Rev. Dobson was a key player in the civil rights movement, both in Baltimore and throughout our State. He learned and lived a basic truth that inspires me to this day: it is not enough to simply be concerned. Only action can change circumstances and outcomes. “I offer my prayers for peace and comfort to his wife and all of his loved ones in their time of mourning. We have all lost a tremendous humanitarian and role model. I hope the legacy that he leaves inspires us all to act to better our communities and our future.” ###
01.18.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement commemorating the second inauguration of President Barack Obama on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “I feel tremendously humbled to witness this moment in our nation’s history. So many in our parents’ generation – and ours – never thought we’d see an African American elected president of this country. Now, not only have we been blessed to see that day, but we will witness the President accept a second term on the same day our nation pauses to acknowledge the contributions of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. “Our President is in many ways a living fulfillment of dreams Dr. King could only hope to see. While his swearing-in will be an historic nod to how far our country has come, we must also realize that the struggle for government of, by and for all Americans is not over. “Our 21st century civil rights movement to expand and preserve the voting rights of our new majority has just begun. To us was passed the baton of forefathers and mothers who paid dearly for our very existence today. We are the future they dreamt of to continue running their marathon to equality and justice and we must not drop the baton.” ###
01.16.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASELauds President’s Endorsement of Dedicated Gun Trafficking Statute Washington, DC (Jan. 16, 2013)—Today, Rep. Elijah Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement after attending a White House event during which President Obama and Vice President Biden announced comprehensive recommendations for executive and legislative action to prevent gun violence, including legislation championed by Cummings to create a dedicated firearms trafficking statute: “I commend the President and Vice President for taking strong, common-sense steps to curb gun violence in our communities. I am particularly encouraged that the Administration has endorsed legislation I have been working on for years in response to requests by law enforcement officials to combat illegal gun trafficking. This proposal should be one of the most bipartisan bills Congress considers this year because it is supported by law enforcement and does not affect law abiding gun owners. The Administration is doing what it can do, so it is now up to Congress to come together and take serious, meaningful steps to keep our nation’s children safe.” Over the past month, Cummings has been working closely with Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Rep. Carolyn Maloney, and others on legislation to be introduced next week to create a dedicated firearms trafficking statute to assist law enforcement officials combat the flow of weapons into the hands of criminals. In 2011, Cummings issued a staff report entitled “OUTGUNNED: Law Enforcement Agents Warn Congress They Lack Adequate Tools to Counter Illegal Firearms Trafficking.” The report documented how numerous law enforcement officials testified before Congress that a dedicated prohibition on firearms trafficking would help them more effectively combat the illegal sale and transport of guns in the U.S. and internationally. In the 112th Congress, Cummings and Maloney introduced the Stop Gun Trafficking and Strengthen Law Enforcement Act of 2011 (H.R. 2554). This bill was supported by the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, which represents over 26,000 federal agents and officers from 65 agencies, as well as other organizations. The New York Times and Washington Post have also called for legislation to tackle firearms trafficking as part of an overall effort to address gun violence in this country. ###
01.10.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 10, 2013 Washington, DC – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement after Education Week designated Maryland Public Schools the nation’s highest ranked school system for the fifth year in a row: “I am tremendously proud to congratulate Maryland State Superintendent Lillian M. Lowery, the Maryland State Department of Education, our administrators, educators and students for earning the designation of #1 best public school system in the country for a fifth consecutive year. “Achieving this unprecedented honor underscores our state’s commitment to preparing world-class citizens and our belief that every child has a right and expectation to have a world-class education. “I applaud our public school system for showing once more that every child can succeed when equipped with the right resources and supported by adults who are committed to their success. Congratulations!” ###
01.07.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Jan. 7, 2013 Washington, DC —Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement regarding the public announcement of a new settlement between the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Reserve Board, and 10 mortgage servicers without first briefing the Oversight Committee as requested on a bipartisan basis last week. Click here to read the full statement on the Committee website. ###
01.05.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 5, 2013 Washington, DC — Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, joined Chairman Darrell E. Issa in sending a joint letter yesterday to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Comptroller of the Currency Thomas Curry requesting a briefing as the agencies finalize a potential new settlement with 14 major mortgage servicing companies. Recent news accounts report that a potential settlement now under consideration could replace the Independent Foreclosure Review process, which was ordered in 2011 after federal regulatory agencies identified improper actions during loan servicing and processing by mortgage servicers. You may read the Members' full letter on the Committee website by clicking here. ###
01.03.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 3, 2013 Announcement Follows Repeated Efforts by Team Maryland to Prevent Treasury Department Move WASHINGTON – Congressma Elijah E. Cummings joined U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin and Representatives Donna F. Edwards, Steny Hoyer, Chris Van Hollen, and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) today announced that the Treasury Department and General Service Administration (GSA) will delay their plan to move 450 jobs out of Prince George's County to December 31, 2019. The initial plan by Treasury and GSA gave employees until January 2015 to either relocate or separate. Since the announcement in August, the members of the Maryland Congressional delegation have criticized the plan to move jobs out of Prince George’s County and negotiated with the Treasury Department for a delay. The 450 positions are part of the Federal Management Services (FMS) facility in Hyattsville, Maryland. The Treasury Department had announced intentions to move the positions to Parkersburg, West Virginia next November as part of FMS' consolidation with the Bureau of Public Debt (BPD). “I join my colleagues in welcoming the news that Federal Management Services will remain in Maryland for the next several years,” Congressman Elijah E. Cummings said. “The Treasury Department and GSA’s 450 employees are an integral part of our state’s economy. The agency’s decision to stay in Prince George’s County underscores a commitment not just to those families, but to the larger community as well. This is great news.” # # #
12.21.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Programs will receive nearly $1 million to promote urban educationWashington, DC – Today, U.S. Department of Education Secretary Arne Duncan announced University of Maryland, Baltimore (UMB) Promise Heights and CASA de Maryland, Inc., as 2012 Promise Neighborhood grant winners. “I am incredibly honored to congratulate Promise Heights and CASA de Maryland for earning this distinction. I know the work of both of these programs, and am elated that they are now being recognized for their efforts to combat the impact of poverty in some of our neediest communities.” said Cummings. “I often say that our children are the living messages we send to a future we will never see. The commitment of these organizations to changing the outcomes of so many children and families plays a critical role in cultivating a brighter future for our state and nation.” Over the next year, Promise Heights and CASA de Maryland, Inc., will receive $499,735 and $500,000, respectively, to provide a continuum of education programming in multiple Maryland communities. Promise Heights, a collaborative initiated by UMB and multiple partners, works with residents in the West Baltimore neighborhoods of Upton and Druid Heights to improve access to high-quality education and human services. Based in Baltimore, CASA de Maryland, Inc., is committed to working with low-income Latino communities and families to improve their quality of life and access to resources. CASA will focus its Promise Neighborhood work in the Langley Park neighborhood of Prince George’s County. Secretary Duncan selected a total of 17 awardees from over 200 applicants. The winners share $60 million in grants to support safety, health and education services in impoverished neighborhoods. Promise Neighborhoods is one of the signature programs of the White House Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative, which supports innovative and inclusive strategies to help break the cycle of intergenerational poverty. These are the first Promise Neighborhood grants awarded in Maryland’s 7th congressional district. Additional information on the Promise Neighborhoods program and 2012 winners is also available here. ###
12.19.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 19, 2012 I stand with my fellow CPC members in strongly opposing any move toward chained CPI that would greatly reduce the long-term benefits of every single Social Security recipient and their families. These are our family members, our friends and neighbors who worked hard, played by the rules, and paid their fair share. Now the government must uphold its end of the deal and protect their Social Security benefits. It is fundamentally unfair to ask our most vulnerable citizens – our elderly and our poor – to shoulder the burden for our country; it is morally wrong and unacceptable. We must do better. The Center for Economic Policy and Research estimates that, for the average worker retiring at age 65, a change to chained CPI would mean a cut of about $650 each year by age 75 and a cut of roughly $1,130 each year at age 85. Calculated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Consumer Price Index, or “CPI,” is often referred to as a cost-of-living estimate. Chained CPI changes the formula used to calculate inflation by taking into account changes in spending patterns, not just the price of goods, over time. This different calculation lowers the annual cost-of-living adjustment Social Security recipients receive therefore reducing their total benefits over time.
12.19.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 19, 2012 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement commending Senator Barbara A. Mikulski on being named chair of the Senate Committee on Appropriations: “I am proud to congratulate my dear friend and colleague, Senator Barbara Mikulski, on being named the first woman chair of the Senate Committee on Appropriations. “Sen. Mikulski’s commitment to our great state is undeniable. As the longest-serving female member in Congress, she is a visionary leader who has knocked down barriers as a tireless advocate for women’s and civil rights. “It has been my great honor to work alongside Sen. Mikulski and I look forward to continuing to work with her in preparing Maryland for the future.” ###
12.07.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement in response to the November jobs report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics that the U.S. economy added 146,000 jobs in November: “Today’s report is further confirmation that our country is continuing to move forward. With their votes, the American people spoke and they chose to stay the course that President Obama has laid out. I am optimistic that House Republicans will honor the will of the people and work with us to identify a plan to avoid the fiscal cliff, ensure that everyone pays their fair share, and support our nation’s ongoing recovery.” ###
12.06.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 6, 2012 WASHINGTON, DC — Monday evening, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings will host his 16th annual “How to Pay for College” Seminar. More than 30 colleges, universities, and scholarship organizations will be present to share information about the college admissions process, give presentations on financial aid resources, and offer SAT preparation assistance. This free seminar is open to the public and intended to inform college bound high school seniors, juniors and their families about higher education and financial assistance programs that can help reduce college expenses. Each student attendee will receive a copy of Cummings’ Scholarships and Grants Guide. What: Cummings Hosts College and Scholarship Fair When: Monday, December 10, 2012, 5:00 pm – 8:00 pm Where: Enoch Pratt Free Library Central Branch, 400 Cathedral Street, Baltimore MD ###
12.05.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) and Jeff Landry (R-LA) applauded passage in the House of H.Res. 825 which provided for consideration of an amended version of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2012. Section 301 contains many of the provisions of H.R. 3202, the American Mariners Job Protection Act, introduced by Cummings and Landry to expand transparency surrounding the issuance of waivers to allow non-Jones Act-qualified vessels to carry cargo between two points in the United States. “The Jones Act should be waived only when no U.S. vessels are capable of carrying cargo between two U.S. ports,” Congressman Cummings said. “The inclusion in this Coast Guard authorization of the provisions of H.R. 3202 will bring much-needed transparency to the process by which Jones Act waivers are issued, including requiring the Maritime Administration to formally identify all of the actions that could be taken to enable U.S.-flagged vessels to carry the cargo for which a Jones Act waiver is sought. With this information, we will be better able to assess whether a Jones Act waiver is truly needed.” “This provision shows how government should work, Republicans and Democrats working together with industry and labor to pass a provision which will protect American jobs and put our nation on a strong footing,” Congressman Landry said after passage of the bill. “Section 301 will provide a playbook to the maritime industry, one they can follow to bring fewer Jones Act waivers and more jobs for our workers.” The Jones Act requires that “a vessel may not provide any part of the transportation of merchandise by water, or by land and water, between points in the United States to which the coastwise laws apply, either directly or via a foreign port” unless the vessel is built in the United States, crewed by Americans, and owned by Americans. Cummings and Landry introduced H.R. 3202 on October 14, 2011. They subsequently offered this legislation as an amendment to H.R. 2838, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2012, during consideration of that bill by the House of Representatives in November 2012. The amendment was adopted by a voice vote. ###
12.05.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 5, 2012 Today, the House Democratic Caucus reelected Rep. Elijah E. Cummings to serve as Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee in the 113th Congress. “I am honored to continue serving as Ranking Member and look forward to working with Committee Members on issues that go to the very heart of the lives of the American people,” said Cummings. “I am hopeful the Chairman and I can devise an agenda that addresses the challenges facing our economy and housing market, ensures effective implementation of Obamacare, and improves government efficiency so that each of us has a fair shot at achieving the American dream.” Under Ranking Member Cummings’s leadership, Committee Democrats have conducted vigorous oversight to address the housing and foreclosure crisis, protect the health, safety and pocketbooks of Americans, increase diversity in the military, and cut government waste. Click here to read more about Congressman Cummings' achievements as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on the Committee's website. ###
12.01.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 1, 2012 WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement recognizing the 24th annual World AIDS Day: “It is with great hope and somberness that I stand with citizens all over the world to recognize World AIDS Day today,” Cummings said. “While the occasion continues to inspire hope for a cure and greater prevention and intervention tools, it is also a reminder of the many friends and loved ones lost to this horrible epidemic. “My prayer is that one day there will no longer be a need for a World AIDS Day. Until then, I hope that World AIDS Day will stand as a reminder to us all to be aware, to get educated, and to continue to support the critical research necessary to eradicate this devastating disease.” According to the Centers for Disease Control, the state of Maryland had the second highest AIDS diagnosis rate for all ages in 2010. That same year, the Baltimore City Health Department found that Baltimore and its surrounding counties ranked 3rd among major metropolitan areas in the nation for people living with HIV/AIDS. Several local health departments are offering free HIV/AIDS testing to commemorate World AIDS Day 2012: Saturday, Dec. 1st - The Baltimore City Health Department HIV STD Prevention Program will provide testing at Lexington Market (Paca Street) from 1 – 4 pm and City Hall/War Memorial Plaza (100 Holliday Street) from 4 – 7 pm. Sunday, Dec. 2nd - The Baltimore City Health Department HIV STD Prevention Program will provide testing at Speak to My Heart Ministries (3903 West Belvedere Avenue) from 9:30 am – 1 pm. Monday, Dec. 3rd - The Baltimore County Department of Health will provide testing at Towson Health Center (1046 Taylor Avenue, Towson MD) from 10 am – 7 pm. - The Howard County Health Department provides testing every Monday from 1 pm – 4 pm at the North Laurel Community Center (9411 Whiskey Bottom Rd., Laurel MD). ###
11.28.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 27, 2012 The Baltimore County Department of Health will hold a free HIV testing clinic in recognition of World AIDS Day. This event is open to all and no appointment is necessary. Please note that the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention recommends that individuals aged 13-64 be tested for HIV. Observed annually on December 1, World AIDS Day is dedicated to raising awareness of the AIDS pandemic caused by the spread of HIV infection. AIDS has killed more than 25 million people, with an estimated 38.6 million people living with HIV, making it one of the most destructive epidemics in recorded history. When: Monday, December 3, 2012 from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Where: Towson Health Center, 1046 Taylor Avenue, Towson, MD 21286 For more information on Baltimore County's World AIDS Day testing opportunity or regularly scheduled HIV testing clinics, call 410-887-2437 or visit www.baltimorecountymd.gov/go/gettested. ###
11.19.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 19, 2012 Washington, DC – Rep. Elijah E. Cummings issued the following statement on the appointment of Sherrilyn Ifill as President and Director-Counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. (LDF). “It is my great honor to congratulate my good friend and fellow Maryland Law alumnus Sherrilyn Ifill on her recent selection as President and Director-Counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. (LDF). Sherrilyn’s return to the LDF marks a significant achievement in a career that is steeped in public service, a passion for justice, and a commitment to truth. An accomplished civil rights litigant, author, and educator, I have no doubt that the LDF has selected the very best candidate to move their organization and missions forward. I commend Sherrilyn on this tremendous accomplishment and know that we will continue to see great things from her.” ###
11.12.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 12, 2012 WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement in recognition of Veterans Day: “On Veterans Day, as on every other day, we must never forget that human freedom remains America's first principle and the ultimate source of our strength. What is also critical to remember, however, is that the freedoms we enjoy here are not free,” said Cummings. “Many soldiers and Veterans sacrificed greatly to ensure our comfort and way of life. To each of them – our Veterans, those who paid the ultimate price, and their families – we are forever indebted and eternally grateful.” Cummings joined the New Psalmist Baptist Church on Saturday for their Prayers for Peace Memorial dedication. During his remarks, Cummings called for more than ceremonies to honor Veterans once a year, citing the high incidences of veteran homelessness and joblessness. “Our soldiers have fought - and, too often, they have died - for their faith in a better, more-inclusive America to come. Preserving that faith in a more humane and inclusive America will require national policies that are far more substantial than parades or patriotic songs,” he said. “We continue to need a stronger national agenda to rescue our Veterans from the wars they find themselves fighting when they leave foreign battlefields and return home. This is how we can best honor the sacrifices that our fallen soldiers and Veterans have endured in the defense of our democracy.” Baltimore City Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake also spoke at the memorial dedication. The memorial honored each soldier lost in the wars in Iran and Afghanistan, as well as their families, with different colored ribbons serving as a reminder to all to pray for our armed forces. ###
11.07.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 7, 2012 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, released the following statement following President Barack Obama’s successful reelection campaign: “This election affords President Obama the opportunity to continue the critical work he started four years ago, and I am tremendously proud of our President and the American people for reaffirming their commitment to keep our country moving forward. “I, like the President, am convinced that the best is yet to come for us all. There is still much to do, but I am so honored and humbled that my constituents in Maryland’s 7th Congressional District voted to allow me to continue to be part of this movement. “I believe our priorities moving forward are clear, and remain unchanged: get Americans back to work, continue supporting our economy’s recovery, promote and protect educational access, and get back to the business of serving ALL Americans. I hope that Republicans return committed to the same goals and ready to work – and put partisanship aside.” ###
11.05.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 31, 2012 The United States Small Business Administration (SBA) offers disaster recovery programs and, in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, has low interest loans available to help homeowners, renters and businesses of all sizes to repair or replace uninsured property lost or damaged as a result of a disaster. Small businesses may also be eligible for financial assistance to recover from business interruptions that result from the storm. Physical Disaster Loans Homeowners and renters that suffer damage in a declared disaster area are eligible for loans of up to $200,000 to replace their primary residence or restore it to its predisaster condition. Businesses of all sizes suffering damage in a declared disaster area may apply for assistance of up to $2 million. Economic Injury Disaster Loans Small businesses that suffer substantial economic injury and are located in a declared disaster area are eligible for SBA assistance. Loan funds can be used for working capital until normal operations can resume. The maximum loan amount is $2 million. To find out more about the SBA disaster assistance program, please visit the SBA Website at www.sba.gov/disaster. To apply for assistance, storm victims should sign-up with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at www.disasterassistance.gov. If you have any questions about the SBA disaster assistance programs, please contact Andy Guggenheim, Counsel for the Committee at (202)225-5821.
10.31.2012	Hurricane Sandy Causes Changes to Early Voting Days in Maryland October 31, 2012 -- As a a result of losing two early voting days in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, Maryland will extend early voting days this year. Early voting resumed today, Wednesday, October 31st, and will continue through Friday, November 2nd with extended hours from 8 am until 9 pm each day. More information is available on the Maryland State Board of Elections website.
10.25.2012	Washington, DC – In light of the recent meningitis outbreak, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, wrote Tuesday to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to request an investigation of the pharmacy compounding industry and its oversight by federal and state agencies nationwide. Click here to read the full letter on the Committee's website. ###
10.22.2012	Dear Friend: Planning for the 57th Presidential Inauguration has begun on Capitol Hill. The Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies (JCCIC) has formed, the platform construction is well underway, and the staff has set up shop in the Russell Building. The JCCIC, is responsible for coordinating the ceremonies at the U.S. Capitol, but not the parade or inaugural balls. Many of you will have organizations interested in participating in the Inaugural parade. The Joint Task Force National Capital Region (JTF-NCR) is coordinating parade participation and has launched a website to accept applications from organizations (bands, marching and mounted units, floats) wishing to apply to participate in the Inaugural Parade. The URL is www.2013InaugurationParade.mil. Applications can be submitted on-line, and may include organization photos, a group biography, video clips, and copies of supporting correspondence. Below is a link to a one-page information sheet from the JTF-NCR for your use. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress
10.16.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 16, 2012 Washington, D.C. (Oct. 16, 2012) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today issued a statement in response to the U.S. Supreme Court decision today to refuse to stop Ohioans from voting early during the three days leading up to Election Day. Read the full statement on the Committee website by clicking here. ###
10.10.2012	Information about Maryland's Voter Outreach Postcard As part of a voter outreach effort, the State Board of Elections (SBE) sent a postcard to approximately 1.1 million unregistered individuals. Individuals were identified based on a data match between SBE and the Maryland Motor Vehicle Administration (MVA). If you received the postcard and are not yet registered to vote, you can register to vote here: https://voterservices.elections.state.md.us/OnlineVoterRegistration If you received the postcard and believe that you are already registered to vote - the fact that you got this postcard does not mean you are no longer registered to vote. Check you registration here: https://voterservices.elections.state.md.us/VoterSearch The mailing is estimated to be 98% accurate. The reason approximately 2% received the postcard in error was due to underlying data issues – such as the name or date of birth on file with SBE and MVA did not match. Because of the mailing SBE will be able to correct data issues which brings more integrity to the process. The timing of the postcard was designed to be early enough that there is still plenty of time to register to vote, but close enough to the election that people are engaged in the election. SBE expects that this effort will enfranchise a significant number of the unregistered, but eligible Maryland citizens. For additional information, contact the SBE or your local elections board.
10.09.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, joined other Ranking Democratic Committee Members calling on GOP Committee Chairs to return to Washington to address the urgent needs of the American people to create jobs, guarantee economic certainty with the extension of middle class tax cuts, pass a bipartisan Farm bill, reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act, and achieve a balanced solution to the fiscal cliff. Read the full letter on the Committee website by clicking here. # # #
10.05.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 5, 2012 Washington, DC – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and member of the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement today in response to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ employment report which found in September the U.S. economy created 114,000 new jobs, the unemployment rate fell to 7.8 percent, and the total number of Americans employed rose by 870,000. “Today’s terrific jobs report is a direct answer to critics who falsely claim the President’s economic policies aren’t working. President Obama has kept a steady hand and has managed to rescue our economy despite efforts by Republicans to block him at every turn and who, by their own admission, are putting partisan politics ahead of our country. We need to work together and continue to build on this progress.” Today’s report also revised upward by 86,000 the number of jobs created in July and August. ###
10.05.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 5, 2012 Washington, DC (Oct. 5, 2012)— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today sent a letter to Catherine Engelbrecht, President and Founder of True the Vote, requesting documents relating to the group’s “horrendous record” of filing inaccurate voter registration challenges across the country. Read the full letter on the Committee's website by clicking here.
10.05.2012	FEMA and U.S. Fire Administration Join the National Fire Protection Association to Encourage Everyone to Have Two Ways Out Home fires can happen at any time and can spread in just minutes, claiming the lives and property of those affected. During the week of October 7-12, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the U.S. Fire Administration (USFA), in partnership with the National Fire Protection Association, are encouraging our stakeholders and partners to have a fire escape plan. Families can protect their homes and loved ones from emergencies by making their homes safer now and throughout the year. Hundreds of thousands of fires happen in and around American homes every year, killing or injuring thousands of people and causing untold damage to families and communities. In 2010 alone, a total of 362,100 residential fires resulted in 2,555 deaths, 13,275 injuries, and more than $6.6 billion in property loss. For more information on these and other fire statistics, visit: https://www.usfa.fema.gov/statistics/estimates/index.shtm. The best way to prepare for a fire is to plan in advance and practice your family’s response. Here are some suggestions for how to get ready: • Check that all smoke alarms work: USFA recommends that every residence be equipped with both ionization and photoelectric smoke alarms or dual sensor smoke alarms, which contain both ionization and photoelectric smoke sensors; • Make sure that there are two ways out of every room; • Make a home fire plan; and • Practice with family members including children, older family members, individuals living with a disability, or others who have access and functional needs so that every person knows how to use both ways to get to safety. Please help us to spread the word about fire safety planning and preparedness. For more information about fire safety and prevention, visit: - National Fire Protection Association at www.nfpa.org - Ready.gov at Ready.gov/fires - U.S. Fire Administration at www.usfa.fema.gov. View a USFA fire drill video at https://www.fema.gov/medialibrary/media_records/9989. If you have any questions, please contact FEMA’s Congressional Affairs Division at (202) 646-4500. FEMA's mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards. ###
10.04.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 4, 2012 Special Ceremony Held for Groups as Survivors Share Their Stories, Tell How Nonprofits Change Lives BALTIMORE – In an effort to raise awareness, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined Verizon and Maryland Attorney General Douglas F. Gansler to mark Domestic Violence Awareness Month and honor several Maryland nonprofits working to combat abuse against youth and adults. The Verizon Foundation is awarding grants to these nonprofits to aid in their efforts. Domestic violence and emotional abuse affect people who are married, unmarried, heterosexual, gay or lesbian, living together, separated or dating. The violence takes many forms and can happen constantly or once in a while. Maryland Attorney General Gansler has spearheaded tougher domestic violence laws through his role as co-chair of Maryland’s Family Violence Council. “We must do everything we can to prevent domestic violence and hold abusers accountable for their actions,” said Gansler. “This tragedy often spreads from generation to generation and we must work together to end the cycle of violence through ongoing coordination and collaboration among all segments of the community.” According to Rep. Cummings, “Domestic violence affected nearly 18,000 Maryland men, women and children in 2010. This tragedy destroys families and leaves physical, mental and psychological scars for years beyond the actual trauma. This must stop. I am proud to stand with Attorney General Doug Gansler and Verizon today in recognition of Domestic Violence Awareness Month -- and to honor these organizations that continue to work hard every day to eradicate this tragedy.” During today’s recognition ceremony, Verizon announced $50,000 in foundation grants to the following recipients: • After School Dance Fund, which supports a domestic violence prevention education program targeting 200 underserved, diverse high school students. The students learn how to develop healthy relationships among peers and learn strategies for addressing domestic and dating violence and empower peers in the community and schools. • House of Ruth, for its Gateway Program, which educates and engages men in efforts to prevent domestic violence, and incorporates key activities such as skill building, ongoing support for nonviolence, and collaboration with the criminal justice system to eliminate future violence against an intimate partner. • Kennedy Foundation.Net, for educational workshops for 80 to 100 girls to include domestic violence awareness and prevention, self-esteem, image and health/wellness/safety among other topics. The goal is to have participants display a positive reaction, attitude and commitment toward the safety information that is provided to them. • Maryland Network Against Domestic Violence, which trains more than 300 health care providers to effectively address, respond to and prevent domestic violence by identifying patients who are being abused, documenting the abuse and making referrals to local service providers. The program will provide comprehensive domestic violence training specific to health care and train health care providers. • Montgomery County Family Justice Center Foundation, which implements domestic violence prevention programs and training to assist survivors and their families, and increase knowledge about how to prevent domestic violence in their communities. Anthony A. Lewis, Verizon’s mid-Atlantic region vice president of government affairs, said: “Domestic violence is a serious but preventable crime that affects millions of Americans in every segment of society. While the problem is universal, the solutions are not. Domestic violence victims face many challenges. We’re grateful that our funding will help break this vicious cycle and make a meaningful impact in these victims’ lives forever.” According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, on average, 24 people per minute are victims of physical violence, rape or stalking by an intimate partner in the United States. This is more than 12 million women and men over the course of a year. Domestic violence prevention is a priority focus for Verizon. By using its technology, financial resources and partnerships, Verizon is addressing critical social issues. And, through its HopeLine® Phone Recycling Program, the company provides wireless phones and airtime to victims of domestic violence and cash grants to local shelters and nonprofit organizations that focus on domestic violence prevention, awareness and advocacy. The Verizon Foundation helps people to live healthy, safe and independent lives by addressing disparities in education, health care and sustainability. Since 2000, the Verizon Foundation has invested more than half a billion dollars to improve the communities where Verizon employees work and live. Verizon's employees are generous with their donations and their time, having logged more than 6.2 million hours of service to make a positive difference in their communities. For more information, visit www.verizonfoundation.org. # # #
10.02.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 2, 2012 Washington, D.C. (Oct. 2, 2012) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement today following reports of a shooting today at a Arizona patrol base where one U.S. Border Patrol agent was killed and a second was injured. Read the full statement on the Committee's website by clicking here. ###
10.02.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 2, 2012 Washington, DC (Oct. 2, 2012)—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today issued a statement after Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court Judge Robert Simpson struck down a narrow part of the Pennsylvania photo identification law, allowing voters to cast a ballot in the 2012 November election without having to provide a photo ID. Click here to read the full statement on the Committee's website.
10.01.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 1, 2012 Washington, DC (Oct. 1, 2012) - Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in response to an announcement that the U.S. Postal Service and the American Postal Workers Union have agreed to offer employees retirement incentives. Click here to read the full statement on the Committee's website. ###
10.01.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 1, 2012 Washington, DC (Oct. 1, 2012) —Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter requesting documents and a transcribed interview with longtime GOP consultant Nathan Sproul relating to allegations of widespread irregularities in the voter registration efforts of Strategic Allied Consulting. Click here to read the full letter on the Committee's website. ###
09.27.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 27, 2012 Washington, DC (Sept. 27, 2012)— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today issued a statement in response to a report issued by the Inspector General of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) finding fault with FHFA’s processes for approving business decisions made by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Click here to read the full statement on the Committee's website. ###
09.25.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 25, 2012Team Maryland Tours STEM Classroom at Baltimore School Preparing Students for Science and Innovation Jobs BALTIMORE – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, along with U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin, Rep. John Sarbanes and Baltimore City Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, today announced that the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) has been awarded a $7,414,585 federal grant over five years from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to fund STEM Achievement in Baltimore Elementary Schools (SABES). Team Maryland was joined by Johns Hopkins University Interim Provost Jonathan Bagger and Baltimore City Schools Chief of Staff Tisha Edwards to make the announcement. The project is a partnership between JHU and Baltimore City Public School (BCPS), and works within neighborhoods to build a Community Enterprise for science, technology, education and mathematics (STEM) learning. Following their announcement at Arlington Elementary School in Baltimore, Team Maryland toured a STEM classroom to see first-hand the work being done to support advanced learning. “Education is the opportunity ladder of this nation and early education is a critical rung in that ladder,” said Senator Mikulski, Chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee which funds NSF. “Students with STEM backgrounds are in demand today, so they can fill the jobs of tomorrow. Every student deserves a chance to excel in those fields. This federal funding will help show Baltimore City students that STEM isn’t just fun – it’s the key to a good job and a promising future.” “STEM education is the cornerstone of our nation’s future economic success and growth,” said Senator Cardin. “This National Science Foundation grant to Johns Hopkins University is a significant investment in Baltimore City Public School students and will help prepare them for 21st Century jobs.”“Our nation’s children are among the brightest in the world. For them, and for our country, it is essential that they also be the best educated,” said Cummings. “I commend all of the partners in SABES for their efforts to learn and then teach us how best to engage our young people in the pursuit of science, technology, engineering and mathematics.” “We must provide our children with a top-notch education that prepares them for academic and professional success,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “This grant will help elementary students build a strong foundation in science and math and prepare them for the future.” “To start Baltimore growing again, we need to work in partnership to improve educational opportunities for all of our kids,” said Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. “Support for STEM education will prepare our students for tomorrow’s economy. By forging new partnerships like this, we can give every child the education – and opportunity – they deserve.” Science, Technology, Education and Mathematics (STEM) learning is targeted to the local community through the STEM Achievement in Baltimore Elementary Schools (SABES) program, which integrates science into the learner’s world, as opposed to bringing students into the world of scientists. The program will engage forty BCPS teachers and 1,620 students in grades 3-5 at nine elementary schools in three high-minority, low income neighborhoods, as well as caregivers, community-based organizations, afterschool program providers, faculty and students from JHU, members of Baltimore’s high tech businesses and local museums. SABES will prepare afterschool STEM facilitators in each neighborhood. SABES research findings are expected to allow for broader understanding about issues that schools grapple with nationwide: developing science literacy in all students, investigating community-based learning as a potential resource for educational support, and closing the STEM achievement gap between students of different ethnicities, English language proficiencies, and income levels. The Community Enterprise for STEM Learning program focuses on expanding partnerships beyond school districts and higher education to include community institutions that broaden math and science education, including museums, zoos, parks, aquariums, local businesses and industry along with laboratories and science centers. The program also seeks to address social situations of students by engaging families and parents, social services and after school providers to improve learning and retention. ###
09.19.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 19, 2012 Washington, DC (Sept. 19, 2012) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released a statement after receiving a briefing from the Department of Justice’s Inspector General on its comprehensive report of gunwalking in Operations Wide Receiver and Fast and Furious. Click here to read the full statement on the Committee's website. ###
09.18.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday, September 18, 2012 WASHINGTON— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined 13 members of Congress, led by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, in introducing a bill to combat voter suppression efforts across the country. The America Votes Act of 2012, H.R. 6419, will allow voters to sign an affidavit attesting to their identity if they do not have the identification documents required at their polling place. A fact sheet on the bill is available here. The bill is cosponsored by Larsen, Cummings and Reps. Mike Honda (CA-15), Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05), Gwen Moore (WI-04), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), James Moran (VA-08), Allyson Schwartz (PA-13), Gregory Meeks (NY-06), Xavier Becerra (CA-31), Donna Edwards (MD-04), Bob Filner (CA-51), John Lewis (GA-05), and Hansen Clarke (MI-13). “The America Votes Act of 2012 is a commonsense bill that protects the ability of American citizens to exercise their democratic right to vote,” said Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. “There are more recorded instances of exploding toilets and shark attacks than there are of in-person voting fraud. The story of our nation is one of extending the right to vote irrespective of race or gender. We must not allow the United States to move backward to our dark history of voter intimidation and suppression.” In the past two years, 11 state legislatures have passed new voter ID laws or measures to enhance existing laws. As many as one in four African-American voters, more than one in six Hispanic voters, and about one in ten eligible voters overall do not possess a current and valid government-issued photo ID. Several independent analyses of elections have shown that in-person voter fraud is a nonissue. “Efforts to deny any voter the right to cast a ballot are offensive to us all,” said Rep. Elijah Cummings, MD-07. “I am proud to join Rep. Larsen in supporting the America Votes Act of 2012 to help ensure that the restrictive voter ID laws on the books in 33 states will not succeed in suppressing the votes of people of color and young students. Extensive and credible research has shown that such voter ID laws are unnecessary and place an additional burden on the elderly and poor who now have to acquire new IDs.” ###
09.14.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 14, 2012 Washington, DC – On Tuesday, September 18, 2012, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings will host a workshop on how to establish jobs clubs and career ministries, and the role these resources can play in helping Baltimore’s unemployed. The Baltimore City Mayor’s Office of Employment Development (MOED) will also preview its new Community Job Hubs program at the event. Anchored in neighborhood facilities, the Hubs will provide local residents direct access to employment readiness tools, computer skills training and information about the labor market and job opportunities. The U.S. Department of Labor and the MOED are co-hosts of this half-day workshop. Remarks will be offered by Congressman Cummings as well as Baltimore City Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake; the Rev. Phil Tom and Ben Seigel, director and deputy director, respectively, of the U.S. Department of Labor Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships; and Karen Sitnick, director of the Baltimore City Mayor’s Office of Employment Development. What: Jobs Workshop When: Tuesday, September 18, 2012, 9 am to 12 p.m. Where: Eastside One-Stop Career Center, 3001 East Madison Street, Baltimore, MD 21205 ###
09.14.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 14, 2012 WASHINGTON, DC –Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and senior member of the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement after the Federal Reserve announced a new round of bond buying to aid economic recovery. “I welcome today’s announcement that the Federal Reserve will continue to take action to help support our economy, as we know that more must be done to put Americans back to work. “ I commend Chairman Bernanke for his resolve in using the tools of the Fed consistent with its dual mandate to support maximum employment and stable prices, particularly in the face of Republicans’ continued insistence that the Fed simply do nothing. “However, Congress must do its part, and I call on my Republican friends to stop playing politics and work across the aisle to pass legislation that will create jobs.” ###
09.13.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 13, 2012 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) introduced the Constitution and Citizenship Day Act of 2012, H.R. 6390, to commemorate the 225th anniversary of the signing of the U.S. Constitution. This legislation would encourage civic education by providing high school students new opportunities to learn about the Constitution and to register to vote. “In 2008, young people turned out to vote in record numbers. As those voters mature and their younger siblings prepare to participate in their first election, it is essential that we expand our efforts to educate them on the principles enshrined in our Constitution,” Cummings said. “Regardless of political party, young people should be given the opportunity to learn what our democracy means and to partake in our democratic process. This legislation would ensure that all students have both experiences.” In the 2008 presidential election, an estimated 23 million eligible voters were under the age of 30. In 2012, that number will increase to more than 45 million. Constitution Day falls annually on September 17th . The Constitution and Citizenship Day Act would award competitive grants to schools to enable them to commemorate Constitution Day with educational programs that teach students about the U.S. Constitution and state constitutions. To be eligible for a grant, schools must plan and hold assemblies or presentations that discuss our nation’s history and the importance of the Constitution. ###
09.12.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 12, 2012 Washington, DC (Sept. 12, 2012) – Today, the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee (SVAC) passed measures similar to legislation introduced by Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, that significantly expands foreclosure protections for servicemembers, their families, and disabled veterans. Click here to read Rep. Cummings' statement on the Committee's website. ###
09.12.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 12, 2012 Washington, DC (Sept. 12, 2012)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Chairman Darrell Issa objecting to his demand that a Department of Energy employee appear at a deposition today at 1 p.m., despite the fact that he just received the Committee’s subpoena and does not yet have counsel. Click here to read the full letter on the Committee website. ###
09.11.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 11, 2012 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement commemorating the 11th anniversary of the attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon: “Today Americans worldwide will pause to remember the thousands of innocent lives we lost 11 years ago. There is not a day that goes by that many of us don’t remember that tragic loss of loved ones at the hands of evil, hateful men. “Without a doubt, the terrorists thought that September 11, 2001, would be America’s weakest moment. They were wrong. From the courageous first responders who risked their own lives to save those trapped in the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, to the selfless bravery of the passengers aboard Flight 93 who gave their lives to save countless others, our nation united in the face of seemingly insurmountable odds to illustrate true American spirit. “The events of that morning changed the course of our nation forever, and impacted the day-to-day lives of millions. While nothing can be done to reverse the hurt and grief from that day, each day that we move forward together strengthens us as a country and tells the world that our commitment to our democracy and principles remains unchanged and steadfast. “Let us all pause today and pray for each family who lost a loved one on that morning. Let us also pray for those who continue to live with disabilities and side effects from that traumatic day, and those who are still coping with the heavy spiritual and mental burden of surviving. But perhaps more than this, let us pray that God continues to bless and protect our great nation.” ###
09.11.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 11, 2012 Washington, DC (Sept. 11, 2012)—Yesterday, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter raising serious concerns with Committee Chairman Darrell Issa’s issuance of twelve subpoenas to Department of Energy (DOE) employees regarding its loan guarantee program. Click here to read the full letter on the Committee website. ###
09.08.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 8, 2012 Washington, DC (Sept. 8, 2012) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released a statement after Mexican federal police arrested a man accused of killing U.S. Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry. Click here to read the statement on the Committee website. ###
08.29.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Elijah E. Cummings joined Representatives Donna F. Edwards (MD-4), Steny Hoyer (MD-5), and Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), and Senators Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and Ben Cardin (D-MD) today to criticize the Treasury Department and General Service Administration’s decision to move 450 jobs out of Prince George’s County. The 450 positions are part of the Federal Management Services (FMS) facility in Hyattsville, Maryland. The positions will be moved to Parkersburg, West Virginia beginning in November 2013 as part of FMS’ consolidation with the Bureau of Public Debt (BPD). “The decision of the Treasury Department to move nearly 500 jobs out of Maryland is truly disheartening. It is a critical loss to Prince George’s County, and a difficult blow to our state’s economy,” Congressman Elijah E. Cummings said. “In a time when the Administration and so many others are diligently working to create and preserve jobs, a loss of this magnitude presents a new challenge. It is my hope that the Treasury Department and GSA will consider opportunities to return employment opportunities and much needed revenue to our area. Such a move would underscore their commitment to the communities that have served them diligently for many years, and to the employees impacted by their decision.” “I am disappointed deeply by the Treasury Department’s decision to move 450 jobs out of Prince George’s County,” said Congresswoman Edwards. “Our county can ill-afford to be losing jobs at a time when the General Services Administration (GSA) should be working to bring jobs to the area, especially around our metro stations that are ready for this type of federal development. I expect that these workers losing their jobs will be compensated and provided opportunities to find new employment, and those remaining in Hyattsville guaranteed job security. I will continue to demand transparency and fair leasing practices on the part of the GSA to level the playing field. Prince George’s County deserves the opportunity to compete fairly in the marketplace.” “The Treasury Department’s decision to move hundreds of jobs out of Hyattsville is a loss of jobs for the community, a loss of livelihood for the workers, and a terrible loss for taxpayers nationwide. Maryland’s hardworking, duty driven civil servants have the training, expertise and institutional knowledge that can’t be reproduced anywhere else,” Senator Barbara Mikulski said. “The men and women at the Hyattsville FMS facility have dedicated their careers to good government and public service. They deserve a government that is on their side, not hanging them out to dry, and I will continue to fight for them.” “I strongly disagree with the Department of Treasury’s decision to move Financial Management Services (FMS) employees out its Hyattsville facility to West Virginia,” said U.S. Senator Ben Cardin. “The close proximity of Prince George’s County to the nation’s capital ensures a well-trained, dedicated workforce, and I do not think this move is in the best interest of our nation. In fact, I think it makes sense to locate more federal facilities in Prince George’s County, not in other states. I am deeply concerned by this proposed consolidation and I will work to ensure that our federal workers are treated fairly.” "It is unfortunate that the Treasury Department has decided to move 450 jobs to West Virginia," said Congressman Hoyer. "I'm deeply disappointed by this decision, and will be fighting to ensure all the affected federal employees’ rights and benefits are protected. Locating our federal facilities in the Capital region offers many benefits to the government, and I will be looking for new opportunities to bring additional jobs to Prince George's County." "I am concerned by the proposed relocation of Treasury positions from Hyattsville to West Virginia. We must locate our federal facilities in areas that provide value to taxpayers, which includes the recruitment and retention of a highly-qualified and experienced workforce,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “I will work with our Congressional delegation, agency leadership, and impacted employees to ensure a transparent process that produces the best deal for taxpayers and treats our professional federal workforce fairly." ###
08.29.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 29, 2012 WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings encouraged Maryland residents to be knowledgeable about a nationwide campaign to suppress some voters at a press conference held in his Baltimore offices. “Only by equipping ourselves with the facts can we protect our right to vote and ensure that our voices, and those of our families and loved ones, are heard this year,” Cummings said. “While Maryland does not have a restrictive voter ID law, our state is not immune to campaigns to suppress voters. If we aren’t vigilant, the same types of restrictive laws could begin to crop up right here in Maryland.” Cummings was joined by Maryland Attorney General Doug Gansler, NAACP National Training Director Jessica Pierce, League of Women Voters of Baltimore City President Lois Hybl, and Baltimore City Board of Elections Election Director Armstead Jones, Sr. "The integrity of our voting system must be protected and it’s important that all voters know their rights under the law," said Attorney General Gansler. "My office will investigate and prosecute any individual or groups that engage in voter suppression tactics in Maryland." The Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law estimates that 3.2 million voters will be affected by new photo ID laws. An additional 240,000 citizens and potential voters will be affected by new proof of citizenship laws. New restrictions on registration and voting most greatly impact the young, minority, low-income, and disabled voters, The Brennan Center Found. “Every American should take offense to efforts to buy our votes or stop us from voting this year. Voter suppression is an attack that destroys the one thing that everyone has a right to in this democracy,” said Cummings. “Ultimately, this is not about Democrats versus Republicans, or us versus them. This is about our right as Americans to have an effective voice in our democracy.” Maryland voters may check their registration status, register to vote, and locate their polling place on the Maryland State Board of Elections website: https://www.elections.state.md.us/. ###
08.28.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 28, 2012 Washington, DC (Aug. 28, 2012) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released a statement regarding today’s announcement from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) that it has finalized new greenhouse gas emission and fuel economy standards for Model Years 2017 to 2025 vehicles. Click here to read the statement on the Committee website. ###
08.23.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASELT. GOVERNOR BROWN ANNOUNCES $123 MILLION FEDERAL GRANT TO SUPPORT MARYLAND'S HEALTH BENEFIT EXCHANGE State Unveils Name of Health Benefit Marketplace: Maryland Health Connection BALTIMORE, Md (August 23, 2012) — Lt. Governor Anthony G. Brown announced today that Maryland has received a $123 million federal Level Two Establishment Grant to continue the development and implementation of the state-based health benefit exchange that will become operational by October 2013 under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), providing expanded access to quality, affordable health care to more Marylanders. In July, Governor O’Malley formally declared Maryland among the states that will be seeking certification from the federal government in January 2013 as a state-based exchange, demonstrating a commitment to achieve operational readiness. Also announced today during an event at the University of Maryland Medical Center was the name for the marketplace where individuals and small businesses will shop and enroll for plans and programs. The Maryland Health Benefit Exchange, in partnership with Medicaid and the Maryland Department of Human Resources, will operate the Maryland Health Connection (www.MarylandHealthConnection.gov) as the online portal where individuals, families and small businesses will compare health insurance options, determine eligibility for tax credits and cost-sharing reductions, and enroll in qualified health plans or public programs, such as Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) beginning in October 2013 (for coverage effective January 2014). "I am proud to join Lt. Governor Brown in celebrating the announcement of this federal grant to support our health benefit exchange, The Maryland Health Connection,” said Congressman Elijah Cummings. “The Maryland Health Connection will play a critical role in broadening health care options for many of Maryland’s residents. Through this exchange, Marylanders will have access to alternative insurance options in a competitive marketplace, empowering them to play an active role in protecting the health of themselves and their families. Maryland was one of the first states to implement its health care exchange, and I am certain we will continue to lead the way in improving health care access for all." Marylanders can sign up for updates from Maryland Health Connection by visiting MarylandHealthConnection.gov or texting “CONNECTED” to 69302. Read the full press release here.
08.21.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 21, 2012 Contact: Safiya J. Simmons 202-225-4741 (WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today issued the following statement in response to the CSX train derailment in Ellicott City, Maryland. “I was saddened to hear about the CSX train derailment in Ellicott City, late last night. My sympathies and prayers go out to the families that lost loved ones in this horrible accident. “Public safety is my utmost priority. I am confident that the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) will conduct a thorough investigation. As the investigation unfolds, I hope that the details reveal an uncompromised commitment by CSX to following all safety requirements and standards in their train operations, and that we can identify ways to prevent future tragedies such as this.”
08.20.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 20, 2012 Contact: Safiya J. Simmons 202-225-4741 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Senior Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, sent a letter to President Obama urging the President to honor existing law regarding the use of Jones Act-qualified vessels should oil be released from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR). “The Jones Act supports tens of thousands of domestic maritime and shipbuilding jobs and is critical to maintaining a domestic maritime industry,” Cummings wrote in the letter. “In the event of another SPR release, all available measures should be taken to ensure full compliance with the requirements of the Jones Act.” There have been three presidentially directed releases from the SPR since it was first established. The full content of Cummings’ letter is below. August 20, 2012 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20006 Dear President Obama: I write today to urge that should a release of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) be made, existing law regarding the use of Jones Act-qualified vessels should be followed to ensure that such vessels are used to the full extent of their availability. Under current law, a vessel cannot carry merchandise between two points in the United States unless the vessel is registered in the United States and has also obtained what is known as the coastwise endorsement demonstrating its compliance with the requirements of Chapter 55 of Title 46, popularly known as the Jones Act. Specifically, Section 27 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920 states that “a vessel may not provide any part of the transportation of merchandise by water, or by land and water, between points in the United States to which the coastwise laws apply, either directly or via a foreign port” unless the vessel is built in the United States, crewed by Americans, and owned by Americans (46 U.S.C. 55102; see also 46 U.S.C. part 121). The Jones Act is the law of the land, it is the cornerstone of our U.S. maritime capability, and it should be waived only in the rarest of circumstances. However, in 2011, following a draw down from the SPR, dozens of waivers were issued to allow oil from the SPR to travel on non-Jones Act-qualified vessels. On June 27, the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation on which I serve held a hearing to examine vessels used to carry oil from the SPR. The Deputy Secretary of the Department of Transportation (DOT), John Porcari, testified at the hearing. While Deputy Secretary Porcari provided some information regarding the waiver process, his testimony was not clear regarding the steps that would be taken in the future to maximize the use of the Jones Act fleet should another SPR draw down occur. Of particular concern, during the most recent draw down, numerous Jones Act-qualified vessels were interested in transporting oil from the SPR to United States oil refineries but they were not deemed “available” apparently because they could not transport oil in lots of 500,000 barrels. A Memorandum of Agreement among agencies that are now components of DOT, the Department of Energy, and the Department of Homeland Security is clear that the Maritime Administration may determine that multiple vessels are “suitable” to carry oil lots purchased from the SPR – thus enabling the Maritime Administration to divide cargoes into multiple vessels to maximize the use of the Jones Act-qualified fleet. Additionally, Section 172 of P.L. 112-55 currently prohibits the Maritime Administration from making a “nonavailability” determination pertaining to qualified U.S.-flag vessels unless it first provides a list of U.S.-flagged vessels that collectively have the capacity to transport oil from the SPR to U.S. oil refineries, along with a written justification explaining why those vessels are not being used. The Jones Act supports tens of thousands of domestic maritime and shipbuilding jobs and is critical to maintaining a domestic maritime industry. It should never be waived for the convenience of oil refiners or to the benefit of vessels from foreign nations. In the event of another SPR release, all available measures should be taken to ensure full compliance with the requirements of the Jones Act. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress ###
08.15.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 15, 2012 Contact: Safiya Simmonssafiya.simmons@mail.house.gov Washington, DC (Aug. 15, 2012) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings spoke with Deputy Assistant Attorney General Roy Austin regarding the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) oversight over the detention of juveniles at the Baltimore City Detention Center. This discussion followed a letter that Congressman Cummings sent to DOJ on August 6 inquiring about the nature and extent of DOJ’s oversight activities at the facility. Cummings said, “Deputy Assistant Attorney General Austin stated during our discussion that officials from DOJ will be touring the Baltimore City Detention Center today. This visit is urgently needed and if any unsafe or unsecure conditions are found, they must be immediately remedied. “Further, DOJ indicated that when their 2007 oversight agreement with the State of Maryland expired in 2011, the Baltimore City Detention Center was not yet in full compliance with the agreement’s requirements. The Detention Center needs to come into full compliance with any outstanding requirements and DOJ needs to ensure that compliance is achieved.” DOJ reached a new oversight agreement with the State in April 2012 that will allow DOJ to continue reviewing the conditions under which youth are held at the Baltimore City Detention Center.
08.14.2012	For Immediate Release August 14, 2012 Washington, DC— Today, Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings and Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman sent a letter to Wal-Mart CEO Michael Duke to provide a final opportunity for the company to respond to the Committees’ requests for information on violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act before the Committees release an investigative report on their findings. You may read the full text of the letter on the Committee website here. ###
08.13.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 13, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C. (August 13, 2012) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings,as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement after Chairman Darrell Issa announced plans to file a federal lawsuit today against Attorney General Eric Holder for documents related to the subpoena on Operation Fast & Furious. Click here to read the statement on the Committee website. ###
08.10.2012	In a Detroit News article on a report by Chairman Darrell Issa regarding the new fuel economy standards that will be released by EPA and DOT next week, Cummings disputes claims that the White House sought to weaken the auto industry. "Any allegations that the White House is seeking to weaken the auto industry are simply ridiculous -- this is the White House that saved the auto industry from its near-collapse," said Cummings. Issa's report alleges that the White House allowed California and environmentalists to drive the process, which forced a weakened auto industry to the table and coaxed them to agree to targets they never would have in a normal rulemaking process. Read the full article, including a link to Chairman Issa's report, by clicking here.
08.02.2012	Joint Press Release Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Office of the Comptroller of the Currency For immediate release August 2, 2012Borrowers seeking a review of their mortgage foreclosures under the federal banking agencies' Independent Foreclosure Review now have until December 31, 2012, to submit their requests. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) today announced that the deadline for submitting requests for review under the Independent Foreclosure Review has been extended. The new deadline provides additional time for borrowers to request a review if they believe they suffered financial injury as a result of errors in foreclosure actions on their homes in 2009 or 2010 by one of the servicers covered by enforcement actions issued in April 2011. The deadline extension provides more time to increase awareness about the Independent Foreclosure Review and how eligible borrowers may request a review, and to encourage the broadest participation possible. The agencies will work with the servicers to expand their outreach and marketing efforts through the end of the year to encourage as much participation as possible. As part of enforcement actions issued in April 2011, the agencies required 14 large mortgage servicers to retain independent consultants to conduct a comprehensive review of foreclosure activity in 2009 and 2010 to identify borrowers who may have been financially injured due to errors, misrepresentations, or other deficiencies in the foreclosure process. If the review finds that financial injury occurred, the borrower may receive remediation such as lump-sum payments, suspension or rescission of a foreclosure, a loan modification or other loss mitigation assistance, correction of credit reports, or correction of deficiency amounts and records. Lump-sum payments can range from $500 to, in the most egregious cases, $125,000 plus equity, according to guidance issued by the agencies. Requesting a review does not preclude borrowers from taking other actions related to their foreclosures. A servicer is not permitted to require a borrower to sign a waiver of the borrower's ability to pursue claims against the servicer in order to receive compensation under the Independent Foreclosure Review. There are no costs associated with being included in the review. More information, including how to apply online, is available at https://www.independentforeclosurereview.com Media Contacts: Federal Reserve Board Barbara Hagenbaugh 202-452-2955 OCC Bryan Hubbard 202-874-5770
08.02.2012	THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 2, 2012 The President today declared a major disaster exists in the State of Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts in the area affected by severe storms and straight-line winds during the period of June 29 to July 8, 2012. Federal funding is available to state and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe storms and straight-line winds in the counties of Calvert, Charles, Kent, Montgomery, and St. Mary’s and the Independent City of Baltimore. Federal funding is also available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard mitigation measures statewide. W. Craig Fugate, Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Department of Homeland Security, named Regis Leo Phelan as the Federal Coordinating Officer for federal recovery operations in the affected area. FEMA said additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the state and warranted by the results of further damage assessments. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION MEDIA SHOULD CONTACT: FEMA NEWS DESK AT (202) 646-3272 OR FEMA-NEWS-DESK@DHS.GOV ###
08.02.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:August 2, 2012 Rachel MacKnight (Mikulski) 202-228-1122 Susan Sullam (Cardin) 410-962-4436 Mariel Saez (Hoyer) 202-225-4131 Lisa Wright (Bartlett) 202-225-2721 Safiya Simmons (Cummings) 202-225-4289 Bridgett Frey (Van Hollen) 202-225-5341 Jaime Lennon (Ruppersbreger) 202-225-3061 Meghan Pennington (Sarbanes) 220-225-4016 Dan Weber (Edwards) 202-225-8699 Ryan Nawrocki (Harris) 202-441-7940 Delegation has asked President Obama to support Governor O’Malley’s request for a major disaster declaration as communities across Maryland struggle as a result of severe weather WASHINGTON – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined U.S. Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Ben Cardin (both D-Md.) today in applauding President Barack Obama for issuing a Declaration of Disaster for Maryland in the wake of severe storms, straight line winds and extreme heat from June 28 to July 8, 2012. Members of Maryland’s Congressional Delegation praising the President’s Disaster Delegation include: U.S. Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Roscoe E. Bartlett, Chris Van Hollen, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, John P. Sarbanes, Donna F. Edwards and Andy Harris. “As members of the Maryland Congressional Delegation, we have been united throughout this process in urging the President to issue a Disaster Declaration for Maryland in the wake of such severe weather,” said members of the Delegation. “We are pleased that the President recognized the full extent of the damage that was caused and that he has taken action to help communities recover.” The Disaster Declaration means that Maryland is now eligible for federal disaster recovery dollars through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), ensuring the already strained state budget is not stretched any thinner as a result of another natural disaster. In declaring that a major disaster exists in the State of Maryland, President Obama ordered Federal aid to supplement state and local recovery efforts in areas affected by this severe weather. Federal funding is available to state and local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by the severe weather in Calvert, Charles, Kent, Montgomery and St. Mary’s Counties as well as the Independent City of Baltimore. The text of the delegation’s letter of support is as follows: August 2, 2012 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our very strong support for Governor O’Malley’s July 27, 2012 request for a declaration of a major disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of the severe weather event which impacted our state beginning on June 29, 2012 and ending on July 8, 2012. The severe storms, near-hurricane force winds, and extreme heat caused extraordinary damage across the State of Maryland, exhausting state and local capabilities. An unprecedented and unexpected storm, which we later learned was a Derecho, crossed our state June 29-June 30, 2012. It caused major destruction in its path and left over 1 million users without power in all 23 counties, Annapolis City, Baltimore City and Ocean City. This included not only private residences, but also businesses, state agencies, critical care facilities, and critical infrastructure facilities. The damage done by this storm was substantially exacerbated by extreme heat over the course of 10 straight days, including a recorded temperature in Baltimore of 104 degrees on June 29th, and temperatures of over 100 degrees July 5-8th. This combination of days-long outages and unrelenting heat posed a severe threat to the health and safety of Marylanders, causing the State to institute far-reaching measures to assist residents with basic human needs and medical support. Power was not fully restored to all customers until July 9, 2012. Maryland and its local jurisdictions have contributed a vast amount of resources in a very short time period. Governor O’Malley took appropriate action under Maryland law, directing the execution of the State CORE Emergency Operations Plan on June 29, 2012. The Governor further declared that a State of Emergency existed within the entire state beginning June 30, 2012. As the state moves out of the initial response to the storms and into the recovery period, it has been determined that this incident is beyond the capabilities of the state and local governments. Further, the response to this event has been somewhat impeded by the fact that the state remains in a long term recovery phase from previously declared Presidential disasters Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee. The federal assistance requested will provide vital resources to the State of Maryland as it repairs critical infrastructure and mitigates further losses to the citizens of our state. We appreciate your consideration of Maryland’s request, and look forward to continue working with you in this recovery. Sincerely, # # #
08.01.2012	MEDIA ADVISORY Department of Health Encourages Parents to S.A.V.E. Before School Starts! Start Administering Vaccines Early What: To assist parents in getting their children immunized before the start of the 2012-2013 school year, the Baltimore County Department of Health will provide recommended vaccines at no cost for children up to age 18 who are eligible under the Vaccines for Children (VFC) program. The VFC program includes, among others, children who are eligible for Medicaid and children who have no health insurance. No appointment is necessary. Parents must bring a copy of their child's immunization record. Meningitis vaccine will also be available at no cost for students entering college. When & WHERE: Monday, August 6 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Woodlawn Health Center 1811 Woodlawn Drive Baltimore, Maryland 21207 Wednesday, August 8 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Eastern Family Resource Center 9100 Franklin Square Drive Baltimore, MD 21237 For more information on childhood immunization requirements, contact the Immunization Action Program at 410-887-2705 or visit www.baltimorecountymd.gov/go/health. # # # Baltimore County Department of Health Drumcastle Government Center 6401 York Road, 3rd Floor Baltimore, MD 21212-2130 Phone: 410-887-BCHD (2243) Fax: 410-337-4751 E-mail: health@baltimorecountymd.gov ( mailto:health@baltimorecountymd.gov )
07.31.2012	Washington, DC (July 31, 2012)—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement today in response to the decision by the Federal Housing Finance Agency to forbid Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from reducing principal on mortgages even though such modifications would prevent larger losses resulting from foreclosures. Click here to read the full statement on the Committee website. ###
07.27.2012	Washington, DC (July 27, 2012)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, circulated a memo with preliminary findings from his investigation of executive pay at for-profit educational institutions—which receive a majority of their funds from U.S. taxpayers in the form of financial aid to students. Click here to read the full memo on the Committee website. ###
07.26.2012	Teachers gather to learn how to build independent scientific research programs in their communities WASHINGTON, DC, July 26, 2012 – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings recognized the ten teachers selected in March as part of the Society for Science & the Public’s (SSP) 2012 class of SSP Fellows who will attend the Fellows Institute next week in Washington, DC. “I applaud the Society for Science & the Public (SSP) for its commitment to recognizing and supporting the innovative educators laboring on behalf of our students in under-resourced schools,” said Cummings. “I congratulate all ten of the 2012 SSP Fellows. I am especially proud to congratulate David Nelson, a teacher at Baltimore Polytechnic Institute, who was selected to join this year’s cohort. The impact of educators on the lives of their students is not lost on me. As a product of public schools, I am certain that I would not be where I am today without the dedicated, equipped, and encouraging teachers in my life.” SSP Fellows design independent research programs to be implemented in their schools and help their students to develop a strong network of scientific mentors. The Fellows Institute, supported by Intel, provides intensive training to teachers and enables each Fellow to earn graduate level credit for their work. Competitively selected this year from an entrant pool of high school science and math teachers from 26 states and Puerto Rico, each Fellow will receive: (1) $8,500 in 2012 directly for their classroom and community; (2) full support to attend the Fellows Institute held July 30–August 4, 2012 in Washington, DC; and (3) ongoing training and resources from SSP. Successful participants may retain their Fellowship for up to a total of four years to ensure that promising students can pursue independent research through their high school years. Read the full press release here. Contact: Sarah Wood Society for Science & the Public (202) 872-5110 swood@societyforscience.o
07.26.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 26, 2012 Washington, DC (July 26, 2012)—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement today in response to an announcement by the Department of Justice and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency of a settlement requiring Capital One Bank to pay approximately $12 million in damages to servicemembers for violating the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA). The agreement covers wrongful foreclosures, wrongful automobile repossessions, wrongful court judgments, and inflated interest rates on credit cards, car loans, and other types of accounts. Thousands of servicemembers will be identified and compensated going back to July 15, 2006, with no action required on their part. Click here to read the statement on the Committee website. ###
07.26.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 26, 2012 Charging Exorbitant Prices for Drugs Facing Critical National Shortages Washington, DC (July 26, 2012)—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released a report titled “Shining Light on the Gray Market,” which exposed a network of private “gray market” companies that take advantage of the national drug shortage crisis to charge exorbitant prices for drugs used to treat cancer and other life-threatening conditions. Click here to read the full report on the Committee website. ###
07.25.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 25, 2012 Drug Companies Charging Exorbitant Prices for Drugs Facing Critical Shortages Washington, DC (July 25, 2012)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, is testifying before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation about a joint report released today on “gray market” drug companies as part of a bicameral investigation led by Cummings, Senator Rockefeller, Chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, and Senator Harkin, Chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee. Click here to read his full statement, as prepared for delivery, and the report on the Committee website. ###
07.25.2012	Bipartisan legislation would overturn provision added to the National Highway Bill that repealed one-third of all U.S. cargo preference requirements, jeopardizing national security and eliminating thousands of American jobs WASHINGTON D.C. (July 25, 2012) – On behalf of the USA Maritime coalition, Chairman James L. Henry applauded bipartisan legislation introduced by Representative Elijah Cummings (D-MD-07) that would restore the readiness of the U.S.-flag fleet, boost national security and protect against the elimination of thousands of American jobs. In a statement, Chairman Henry wrote: “USA Maritime applauds the bipartisan efforts of Representatives Elijah Cummings and Jeffrey Landry who are taking action to restore the readiness of the U.S.-flag fleet. The bill they have introduced – along with a bipartisan group of eight members of Congress – would shore up national security and protect against the elimination of thousands of American jobs. “During this time of economic uncertainty and international instability, USA Maritime urges Congress to quickly approve the legislation introduced by Representatives Cummings and Landry– thereby repealing section 100124 of the Highway Bill and reinstating the 1985 cargo preference agreement. Failure to do so will risk putting the U.S. on a slippery slope towards losing our national defense sealift capability entirely.” If enacted, the Saving Essential American Sailors (SEAS) Act, H.R. 6170, would repeal a provision added at the last minute to the recently-enacted Highway Bill – The Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012, now P.L. 112-141 – that reduced the U.S.-flag vessel carriage of food aid cargoes overseas. The provision in question (Section 100124) overturned a 1985 bipartisan agreement that increased the percentage of U.S. government cargoes that must be transported on U.S.-owned and U.S.-crewed vessels from 50 percent to 75 percent, and mandated that increases in costs be shouldered by the Department of Transportation. The 1985 agreement was designed to ensure the retention of military-capable commercial U.S.-flagged and U.S.-crewed vessels that could be used by the federal government to transport military and international assistance around the world during times of war, natural disaster or famine. Henry noted that the Highway Bill’s provision that weakened these shipping requirements – known as cargo preference – downgraded the nation’s commercial sealift capability, adversely impacting the U.S. economy and employment levels. Henry urged swift approval of the new bipartisan legislation in order to restore this ill-conceived change to U.S. cargo preference law. You may read the full release on the USA Maritime website. ###
07.24.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday, July 24, 2012SEAS Act to Repeal Section 100124 of Highway Bill WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings (D, MD-07) and Jeff Landry (R, LA-03) today introduced the Saving Essential American Sailors (SEAS) Act, H.R. 6170, which would ensure American food aid is transported by American workers. The bill repeals Section 100124 of the highway bill, MAP-21. Additional original co-sponsors include Congress members Nick Rahall (D, WV-03), Rick Larsen (D, WA-02), Bennie Thompson (D, MS-02), Colleen Hanabusa (D, HI-01), Cedric Richmond (D, LA-02), Michael Grimm (R, NY-13), Tim Bishop (D, NY-01), and Candice Miller (R, MI-10). Section 100124 reduces the amount of U.S. food aid required to be carried on U.S.-flagged ships from 75 percent to just 50 percent, jeopardizing up to 2,000 American maritime jobs. The Maritime Administration (MARAD) estimates that enactment of Section 100124 could cause the U.S.-flagged fleet to lose 16 vessels and $90 million in annual revenues. “The number of vessels in the U.S. flag and the percentage of U.S. cargoes carried on American vessels have continued to fall in recent decades. Currently, there are fewer than 100 U.S.-flagged vessels in the foreign trade, and these vessels carry less than two percent of U.S. cargoes,” said Cummings. “If we allow a further decline in this fleet and the loss of additional mariner jobs, we risk leaving our economy and indeed our military dependent on foreign-flagged, foreign-owned vessels manned by non-U.S. citizens – a situation that would be intolerable.” “This is what happens when Washington rushes bills; we don’t fully debate them or understand their ramifications. Section 100124 will mean that American taxpayers will be paying foreign workers while American mariners sit on the beach,” said Landry. “I hope my colleagues from both sides of the aisle will join us in fighting for our American workers and quickly pass the SEAS Act.” In a May 2011 letter, Commander of the United States Transportation Command General Duncan McNabb wrote that “over 90 percent of all cargo to Afghanistan and Iraq has been moved by sea in U.S. Flag vessels” and noted that U.S. cargo preference laws and the Maritime Security Program have helped in “ensuring the continued viability of both the U.S. Flag fleet and the pool of citizen mariners who man those vessels.” McNabb continued, “the movement of U.S. international food aid has been a major contributor to the cargo we have moved under the cargo preference law that our U.S. commercial sealift industry depends on. Any reductions will have to be offset in other ways to maintain current DoD sealift readiness.” “This ill-conceived change in our cargo preference laws would literally ship American jobs overseas,” said Rahall. “The SEAS Act provides a sensible solution to correct this flaw in the surface transportation bill. It is a job-protecting measure that merits smooth sailing through Congressional consideration and enactment.” “The SEAS Act will undo a short-sighted provision that dealt a huge blow to job creation at a time when the maritime industry is already hurting,” Larsen said. “Congress should be doing everything it can to create jobs. The SEAS Act will reverse this backward step that could cost our mariners thousands of jobs. I am committed to working with my colleagues to undo this short-sighted provision and protect these important jobs.” ###
07.23.2012	Replacement of Kirk Avenue Bus Maintenance Facility Receives $40 Million in Federal Funds Project; Will Support Nearly 700 Construction Jobs ANNAPOLIS, MD – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings praised today’s announcement by U.S. Secretary of Transportation, Ray LaHood, that Maryland will receive $40 million in federal funding to replace the aging Kirk Avenue bus maintenance facility in East Baltimore. Operated by the Maryland Transit Administration, the busy Kirk facility sits amidst a residential neighborhood creating noise and air quality issues. Construction of a new maintenance facility will support nearly 700 jobs and is part of a two-phased project designed to upgrade facilities, internalize operations within those facilities and improve the surrounding environment. “The Maryland Transit Administration’s (MTA) bus service is a key part of the fabric that binds our city together,” said 7th District Congressman Elijah Cummings. “This grant recognizes the critical role that public transportation plays in Maryland and underscores the Administration’s commitment to ensuring the safety of its riders and the efficiency of its providers. I thank the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Maryland Department of Transportation for making the Kirk Bus Facility renovation possible, and I look forward to the opening of the first phase of the project in 2014.” Phase I of the project involves the construction of a $53 million, state-of-the-art, sustainable design, energy efficient/green technology building that will house maintenance operations for the Kirk Bus Division. In addition to the $40 million in federal assistance, the State will contribute $13 million toward the cost of construction. The new 100,000 square foot maintenance facility will be completely enclosed and located on property directly across from the existing Kirk Division. It will allow all maintenance work to be performed in an enclosed environment thereby enabling MTA to better control noise, exhaust fumes, and visibility of the buses to the surrounding community. The Kirk facility is 65 years old and has not been fully renovated since it was built in 1947. Approximately 175 buses are stored, operated, and maintained at the site. The Kirk Division supports 16 bus routes, primarily in the Northeast Baltimore Metropolitan area. Operations at Kirk include preventive maintenance, vehicle inspections, heavy repairs, fueling, washing, radio dispatching, administrative offices and operator support facilities. MTA employs 351 operators and staff at the Kirk Division. Construction of the new maintenance facility is projected to support or create nearly 700 jobs. Final design is being completed and work is expected to begin in late spring 2013 and be completed by fall 2014. ### Read more about this event in the DOT newsletter which you can download below.
07.23.2012	For Immediate Release July 23, 2012Regulatory Shutdown Proposal Is Unprecedented, Would Harm Millions, Lawmakers and Public Interest Groups Say WASHINGTON, D.C. – A Republican proposal to shut down the nation’s regulatory system – thereby blocking critical new health, environmental, safety and other safeguards – is an unprecedented attack that would cause harm to millions, said lawmakers, public interest groups and others today. Those affected range from hunters and asthmatics to factory workers and veterans. In a telephone press conference, Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-Md.) and other Members of the U.S. House of Representatives joined the Coalition for Sensible Safeguards and several people who would be harmed by the proposal. “The problem is that the Republican approach is based on a faulty premise—that regulations kill jobs,” Cummings said. “This myth has been widely discredited by economists on both sides of the aisle. The time has come for Congress to work together to focus on creating jobs and protecting the health and safety of American families. We do not have to choose one or the other.” The “Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act” (H.R. 4078) would place a moratorium on all new significant federal rules until unemployment drops to 6 percent. This would block many critical rules, including those designed to: • Make sure power plants, cement plants and industrial boilers comply with the Clean Air Act; • Ensure food produced on large farms and foreign farms is safe for consumption; • Protect workers in electronics, nuclear and metalwork industries from toxic beryllium; • Boost the energy efficiency of a wide range of products; • Ensure Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans receive compensation owed to them for extended deployments; • Track medical devices so patients can be made aware of recalls; • Establish the rules for bird-hunting season; and • Protect people from another Wall Street meltdown. Read the full press release here.
07.18.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 18, 2012 RELEASE: GAO Report Finds Banks Improperly Foreclosed on Servicemembers Washington, DC (July 18, 2012)— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in response to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report issued yesterday which found that financial institutions are failing to protect servicemembers from improper foreclosures and are not reducing their mortgage interest rates in compliance with the law. Click here to read the statement and highlights from the report on the Committee website. ###
07.12.2012	For details on the Baltimore agreement, read Baltimore Mayor Rawlings-Blake's press release. For details on the Dept. of Justice settlement, read the Justice Department's release. FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 12, 2012 Contact: Safiya Simmons 202-225-4289 (WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today applauded the settlement announced by the Department of Justice and Wells Fargo, as well as a separate agreement between the City of Baltimore and Wells Fargo to address fair lending claims arising out of Wells Fargo’s lending activities that preceded the 2007 economic crisis. More than two years ago, Cummings requested answers from the Justice Department regarding allegations that Wells Fargo and other lenders illegally targeted minority borrowers for high-cost mortgages and other products. Cummings also asked that the Department investigate the bank’s practices in Baltimore. “I commend President Obama, the Justice Department, and the City of Baltimore for their tireless efforts to bring about a measure of justice and accountability that is long overdue. “I also welcome Wells Fargo’s actions to begin the critical process of addressing the economic damage our communities have endured. “We know that aggressive and predatory lending practices were directed toward African American and Latino borrowers and that this housing crisis has resulted in the largest transfer of wealth away from communities of color in this nation’s history. “Too many families have already experienced losses that they cannot recover. This settlement represents a small but important step toward redressing some of the harms that families in our community have suffered. I hope that the funds provided through this settlement will also be utilized to prevent additional unnecessary foreclosures, assist struggling borrowers, and preserve and protect homeownership.” Under the announced settlement, Wells Fargo agrees to pay $125 million to borrowers that the Justice Department believes were adversely impacted by mortgages priced and sold by independent mortgage brokers through Wells Fargo’s wholesale channel. The bank also announced a collaborative agreement with the city of Baltimore today. As a part of this agreement, Wells Fargo will provide $4.5 million to the City of Baltimore for community improvement programs. It will also grant the City of Baltimore $3 million in additional funds for local priority housing and foreclosure-related initiatives. ###
07.09.2012	Washington, DC (July 9, 2012)—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in response to an announcement by the Department of Justice that an indictment charging five individuals involved in the death of U.S. Border Patrol agent Brian Terry was unsealed today in Tucson. Click here to read the statement on the Committee website. ###
07.09.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 9, 2012 Washington, DC (July 9, 2012) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Rep. Mike Quigley, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs, sent a letter to Subcommittee Chairman Patrick McHenry urging him to postpone tomorrow’s hearing on the Administration’s auto bailout to allow further consultations with witnesses. Click here to read the full letter on the Committee website. ###
07.02.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACTS: Susan Sullam (Cardin) 410-962-4436 Rachel MacKnight (Mikulski) 202-228-1122 Safiya Simmons (Cummings) 202-225-4741 Jaime Lennon (Ruppersberger) 202-225-3061 Meghan Pennington (Sarbanes) 202-225-4016 July 2, 2012Letter to FERC calls for community input in considering less hazardous alternatives and in environment assessment process WASHINGTON – Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) joined U.S. Senators Ben Cardin and Barbara A. Mikulski and Representatives Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2), and John Sarbanes (MD-3) today in sending a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) urging the agency to engage the public as it considers a 21.4-mile extension of the Columbia Gas Transmission, Inc. pipeline that runs from Owings Mills through Oregon Ridge to Fallston. Many members of the Baltimore County communities that would be affected have voiced concerns about the negative impact that the project may have on the environment and public health. In the letter to FERC, Team Maryland members urged the agency to “heed the local community concerns in designing its Environmental Assessment.” It also urged FERC to “involve all relevant stakeholders” throughout the Environmental Assessment process, including the evaluation of less hazardous alternatives. The pipeline extension proposed by Columbia Transmission would run beside an existing pipeline, but would require the company to expand its current right of way from a width of 50 feet to 75 feet. It is estimated that approximately 300 property owners would be affected by the expansion. The text of the letter is below. July 2, 2012 The Honorable Jon Wellinghoff, Chairman The Honorable Cheryl A. LaFleur The Honorable Philip D. Moeller The Honorable John R. Norris The Honorable Tony Clark Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First Street, NE, Room 11H Washington, D.C. 20426 Re: Docket No. PF12-6-000. Proposed Line MP Loop Extension Project Dear Chairman Wellinghoff and Fellow Commissioners: The Line MP Loop Extension Project proposed by Columbia Gas Transmission, Inc., has raised serious concerns among residents in Baltimore and the surrounding community. Given the significance of these concerns, we strongly encourage the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to engage the public in the scoping and Environmental Assessment (EA) process to the fullest extent possible, and to thoroughly incorporate the public comments the Commission receives into its evaluation of this proposed project. Many constituents have contacted us with specific concerns about negative impacts that the project may have on the environment and public health. Specifically, residents are concerned about the potential negative effects of this project on the safety of local drinking water supplies, on the quality of local streams and the fish that depend on them, and on the health of the Federally Threatened bog turtle species that lives in the region. We have encouraged these residents to be actively engaged throughout the scoping process and Environmental Assessment. Many of these residents have attended public hearings and meetings addressing the planned project and have voiced their opinions both to FERC and to Columbia Gas Transmission, Inc. It is of vital importance that this public input is not only solicited, but is given the significant weight it deserves as this process moves forward. We strongly urge FERC to heed local community concerns in designing and preparing its Environmental Assessment. We further urge FERC to involve all relevant stakeholders in identifying and resolving issues and evaluating less hazardous alternatives during the pre-filing review and throughout the preparation of the EA. Finally, as the Commission defines the parameters of the upcoming EA and the purpose and need of this project, we encourage FERC to commit to evaluating this proposed project based on its ability to be protective of public health, public safety, and environmental integrity. The planned EA is an important first step in determining whether this project is compatible with local needs. Should the EA reveal possible negative environmental, health, or safety impacts, we would urge the Commission to delay implementation of the project until each such possible impact has been thoroughly investigated and an Environmental Impact Statement has been completed. Thank you very much for your attention to this important matter. We look forward to hearing from FERC regarding its plans to fully incorporate local public input and key environmental and safety concerns into this ongoing process.
06.29.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 29, 2012 (WASHINGTON, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and a member of the bi-partisan, bi-cameral conference committee tasked with crafting a conference report to accompany H.R. 4348, the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012, released the following statement after House passage of the conference report. “I am pleased that the House has passed a conference report that provides several years of certainty regarding federal funding for highways and transit. This certainty is far preferable to the deep cuts in highway and transit expenditures that would have occurred had the Congress failed to reauthorize our transportation programs and, for this reason, I voted in favor of this conference report. “However, overall highway funding provided by this bill is far below the level of expenditures in fiscal year 2011 at a time when we should be increasing funding to repair existing infrastructure and build the new roads and transit systems we need to ensure our nation’s mobility.” Under this conference report, Maryland will likely receive approximately $580 million in federal aid highway funding in fiscal year 2013 and just over $585 million in such funding in fiscal year 2014. Preliminary estimates indicated the state will receive modest increases in transit funding above current funding levels in both fiscal years, likely receiving approximately $200 million in funding for fiscal year 2014. “Critically, this bill reauthorizes the highway and transit disadvantaged business enterprise programs. My colleagues and I considered the extensive evidence provided to us in testimony in the Transportation Committee and in detailed disparity studies documenting ongoing discrimination in transportation contracting and concluded there is a compelling national interest in reauthorizing these programs. This hard-fought victory will ensure these programs remain in place to help minority- and women-owned businesses compete for the transportation contracts that will be issued over the next two years. “I am, however, deeply concerned that the conference report includes a provision that would reduce by one-third the percent of food aid shipped on U.S. vessels. As the former chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, I have closely examined the state of our U.S. merchant marine. There are fewer than 100 U.S.-flagged vessels in the foreign trade now, and they carry less than two percent of U.S. cargoes. Without our cargo preference programs, we would have no domestic merchant marine, leaving our military and indeed our economy completely dependent on foreign vessels. This provision should never have been included in this conference report and I will work to repeal it.” ###
06.28.2012	Washington, DC (June 28, 2012) –Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in response to the House of Representatives’ unprecedented vote today to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress. Click here to read the statement on the Committee website. ###
06.28.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 28, 2012 (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s Affordable Care Act decision: “I applaud the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the individual mandate of the Affordable Care Act. This verdict ensures that millions of Americans who now lack care will have access to quality, affordable health care, regardless of their socioeconomic or employment status. “The impact of this decision is particularly significant for my constituents in Maryland’s 7th Congressional District. The Affordable Care Act has allowed 6,900 young adults to stay on their parents’ health insurance and made preventive services available at no charge to nearly 150,000 children and adults. Now, as a result of today’s verdict, my constituents will benefit from additional ACA benefits: • By 2014, health insurers will be prohibited from discriminating against all adults and children with pre-existing conditions, which will protect the 110,000 to 290,000 individuals in the district with a pre-existing health condition. • The 18,000 residents who now lack health insurance will receive coverage for the first time. • The 430,000 residents with private insurance coverage will no longer face annual limits on coverage. • People who buy their health insurance on the private market will be able to shop for health insurance in transparent and competitive marketplaces called exchanges, where insurers will be required to publish the prices and benefits of their policies in simple, plain language. “The Supreme Court’s action today has very real implications for Americans across the country, making this a victory for us all.” ###
06.27.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 27, 2012Contact: Safiya Simmons (202) 225 - 4741 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) and U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today introduced the Prostate Cancer Detection Research and Education Act, legislation that would improve research and detection of prostate cancer. The measure would also support a national campaign to raise awareness about the need for prostate cancer screening. "We cannot continue to put at risk the many American men whose very lives depend upon reliable detection and diagnosis of prostate cancer," Cummings said. "I am proud to introduce this bill to ensure that men get the treatment they need, and that those at low-risk are spared from unnecessary intervention. I believe that investment in prostate cancer research is critical to reducing the terrible impact of this disease." The Prostate Cancer Detection Research and Education Act would increase federal investment in prostate cancer research and create an expert panel to recommend a plan for developing a more accurate test for detecting and diagnosing prostate cancer. Specifically, the legislation would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to: • Establish an Advisory Council of experts to evaluate current federal research on prostate cancer and draft a plan for developing a test to effectively detect and diagnose prostate cancer • Direct the National Institutes of Health to use the plan developed by the Advisory Council to coordinate and intensify federal research to develop and validate an accurate test for prostate cancer • Create a national campaign to increase awareness of the need for prostate cancer screening, particularly among communities disproportionately impacted by the disease “Prostate cancer is one of the leading threats to the health and lives of the men of this country. This legislation would promote efforts to develop a more reliable test for prostate cancer to ensure that patients are getting the right diagnosis and the treatment they need," said Senator Boxer. "We owe it to men – and their families – to do what we can to combat this deadly disease.” It is estimated that there will be 240,000 new cases of prostate cancer and 28,000 prostate cancer-related deaths this year alone. One out of every six men is affected by prostate cancer, making it the most common cancer in men and the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths among men. The measure is supported by many patient advocacy groups including the AdMeTech Foundation, ZERO Project to End Prostate Cancer, the Massachusetts Prostate Cancer Coalition, Prostate Health Education Network (PHEN), California Healthcare Institute, Mets Mavericks and the National Association of the State Prostate Cancer Coalitions. ###
06.21.2012	In July, the full House Veterans Affairs Committee passed Congressman Cummings' amendment. It will now move to the full House for a vote. On June 26, 2012, the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, approved Congressman Cummings' amendment. In its revisions, the Committee expanded the class of protected individuals to include all veterans that are medically discharged. Additionally, they extended foreclosure protections in both judicial and non-judicial foreclosure states for medically discharged veterans, surviving spouses, and servicemembers deployed to a contingency operation. The amendment will now move to the full Committee for a vote. Thursday, June 21, 2012, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, testified before the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Subcomittee on Economic Opportunity, in defense of his bill which would extend foreclosure protections for U.S. servicemembers. You may watch his testimony here. ###
06.20.2012	Washington, DC (June 20, 2012) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, issued a statement today about the Committee’s vote to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress. Click here to read the statement on the Committee website. ###
06.15.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 15, 2012 Washington, DC - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings [MD-07] today released the following statement in support of President Obama’s decision to allow certain young illegal immigrants to remain in the country: “I agree with the President that the focus of our deportation policy should be removing those individuals who are dangerous - rather than punishing young people who were brought here as children and now want the opportunity, without the threat of deportation, to earn an education or work, especially those who already have served our country. "I commend the President for taking this wise and humane action that is consistent with America’s values and our national security.” ###
06.14.2012	Baltimore, MD. - Congressman Elijah Cummings [MD-07] today released the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s speech in Cleveland, Ohio: “Today we heard the President articulate his vision -- fundamentally different from that of the Republicans – for growing the economy, creating middle-class jobs and paying down the debt. “We in Maryland know what’s at stake in this election. It’s clear to us that the path laid out by the President is the right course for America’s economic future. “President Obama understands that we must invest in our middle class now in order to create an economy built to last. He believes that America prospers when hard work pays off, responsibility is rewarded, and everyone gets a fair shot. “The Republicans, on the other hand, are offering the same failed policies of the past that benefitted only a privileged few, pushed our economy into recession and devastated the middle class. “The President’s speech in Ohio today was a clear indication of the choice Marylanders have in this election: We either continue forward with President Obama or go backwards with the Republicans.” ###
06.14.2012	(Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement in recognition of Resolutions Week 2012. “It is frightening to think that there are people and corporations who seek to buy influence on behalf of their personal interests. This completely contradicts the foundation of our government, and threatens democracy as we know it. “It is imperative that the American people take aggressive and definitive action now to protect our way of life. In honor of Resolutions Week 2012, I salute the many citizens across the country who are introducing resolutions and calling for a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United.”
06.12.2012	For Immediate Release June 12, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 12, 2012) — Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Senator John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV, Chairman of the Commerce, Science and Transportation, sent a detailed letter about their investigation of the “gray market” distribution network for short-supply prescription drugs to House and Senate negotiators working on legislation to reauthorize Food and Drug Administration programs. Click here to read more about the letter on the Committee website. ###
06.11.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 11, 2012 Washington, DC – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement today in response to the Committee’s official notice scheduling a business meeting next week to consider holding Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr. in contempt of Congress. Click here to read the statement on the Committee website. ###
06.07.2012	WASHINGTON, June 7 – Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) today introduced the most sweeping legislation ever to address the national crisis in dental care. As many as 130 million Americans do not have dental insurance, according to a report prepared for Sanders as chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Primary Health and Aging. One quarter of U.S. adults ages 65 and older have lost all of their teeth. About 17 million low-income children do not see a dentist each year, according to the study. “When we talk about the health care crisis in America we often ignore a very important aspect of that crisis; that tens of millions of Americans are unable to access affordable dental care – and they suffer as a result of that,” Sanders said at a news conference on Capitol Hill. “Today, by introducing what we believe is the most comprehensive dental care legislation in American history, we start addressing that issue.” “This bill recognizes the important role of dental care in overall health and expands coverage to those who have so often been left behind,” Cummings said. “Disparities are systemic in our nation’s health care system and have resulted in unacceptable differences in access and health care outcomes. That is why I am proud to introduce this legislation with Sen. Sanders to ensure that every person has access to affordable dental care and the opportunity to enjoy a long, healthy life.” The legislation introduced in the Senate and House would expand comprehensive dental coverage to millions of Americans through Medicare, Medicaid, and the Department of Veterans Affairs. The measures would authorize funding to increase access to dental services at community health centers and boost support for mobile clinics and dental clinics in schools. Their twin bills also would address a severe and worsening shortage of dentists in the United States, especially in rural areas and inner cities. While the federal government estimates that at least 9,500 more dentists and other oral health care professionals are needed to meet the nation’s needs, dental schools aren’t even graduating enough dentists to replace those who retire each year. The legislation would expand National Health Services Corps scholarship programs. It also would create new pilot programs to encourage training for specially-trained therapists who can help close vast gaps in patient care by performing some procedures now offered only by dentists. To integrate oral health care with overall health care, additional support would be authorized for programs to educate non-dental health professionals about oral health. To read the Senate bill, click here. To read Sanders’ full statement, click here. To read Cummings’ full statement, click here. To read the Senate report on the dental crisis, click here. Contact: Michael Briggs (Sanders) 202 224-5141 Safiya Jafari Simmons (Cummings) 202 225-4289 ###
05.25.2012	(Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement on the upcoming Memorial Day holiday. "As the nation observes another Memorial Day, I hope that we all will pause to acknowledge the gravity of this occasion,” Cummings said. “Today we thank the many American men and women who have given their lives to defend America’s freedoms and way of life since our country began. Not only do we honor the memory of those who have made the ultimate sacrifice, but we pray for their family members and friends who unselfishly shared their loved ones with us. I also extend my sincerest gratitude to today’s military, the brave servicemembers who protect us now. I pray that they remain safe as they serve, and that they are reunited with their families and friends soon."
05.24.2012	Baltimore, MD (May 24, 2012) -- Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings announced his upcoming foreclosure prevention workshop and discussed legislation he introduced last week to enhance the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA), a law that protects servicemembers against improper foreclosures, evictions, and certain other civil actions. Congressman Cummings introduced H.R. 5747, the Military Family Home Protection Act, on May 15 with nine co-sponsors, including the House Veterans Affairs Committee Ranking Member Bob Filner and House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith. Rep. Cummings subsequently offered the text of this legislation as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 and it was adopted by the House of Representatives by a vote of 394-27. This legislation would expand foreclosure protections to servicemembers serving in support of contingency operations, surviving spouses of servicemembers whose deaths are service-related, and veterans who are 100% disabled at the time of discharge due to service-connected injuries. “Our troops fighting overseas should not also have to fight here at home just to keep a roof over the heads of their loved ones,” Cummings said. “My amendment expands current law to protect more of our brave men and women in uniform from losing their homes while they protect our freedoms abroad.” Maryland Department of Veteran Affairs Secretary Edward Chow, Jr., joined Congressman Cummings in lauding the legislation. “On behalf of Governor O’Malley and Lt. Governor Brown, I commend Congressman Cummings and his colleagues for taking this first step in extending protection to our service members, their families, survivors and Veterans,” Chow said. “This sends a very important message of support to our Military and our Veterans, reassuring them that we do not forget their needs once they are deployed to serve elsewhere. ” The amendment also prohibits banks from discriminating against servicemembers who are eligible for protections under SCRA, increases penalties for mortgage-related violations, and requires lenders to designate a compliance officer to ensure that they protect the legal rights of servicemembers. The amendment was the culmination of a year-long investigation by Cummings into illegal foreclosures against servicemembers, including multiple document requests to mortgage banks and servicemembers, a congressional forum co-hosted with Senator Jay Rockefeller, and a staff report, Fighting on the Home Front, detailing how multiple banks had violated the SCRA by illegally foreclosing on servicemembers and charging fees in excess of those permitted by the SCRA. The American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, and Disabled American Veterans all issued letters in support of the amendment. Foreclosure prevention has been a key priority for Congressman Cummings for many years. In 2008, he began hosting foreclosure prevention workshops to combat foreclosures in Maryland’s 7th Congressional District. The next workshop will be held Saturday, June 16, from 9 am to 3 pm at Woodlawn Senior High School, in Baltimore County, MD. Hundreds of constituents are expected to attend to meet with their lenders attend sessions on preventing foreclosure, and discuss their options with housing counselors and attorneys. Nineteen mortgage lenders will be present, as well as Maryland Attorney General Douglas Gansler, who will discuss the recent mortgage settlement agreement. ###
05.21.2012	Tomorrow, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, will give brief remarks before fielding questions from 20 special needs students at Hillcrest Elementary School in Catonsville, MD. Cummings first visited the children, who range from 2nd to 5th grade, two years ago. Hillcrest Elementary serves a diverse population of more than 750 Baltimore County children. What: Congressman Cummings’ student forum When: Tuesday, May 22, 2012, 10:00 – 11:00 AM Where: Hillcrest Elementary School, 1500 Frederick Road, Catonsville MD # # #
05.16.2012	Washington, DC –Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, received a plaque from the Coalition Against Bigger Trucks (CABT) in honor of his vote opposing a transportation infrastructure provision intended to permit heavier and longer trucks on the nation’s highway system. The CABT is comprised of several organizations – including the National Troopers Coalition, National Sheriffs Association, National Association of Police Organizations, and AAA – and works to ensure that Washington heeds the warning of law enforcement officers, EMTs, and motorists, to limit the size of trucks on the roadways. The provision that the Congressman voted against would have permitted triple-trailer trucks on the nation's highways and roadways.
05.15.2012	Washington, DC –Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, will receive a plaque from the Coalition Against Bigger Trucks (CABT) in honor of his vote opposing a transportation infrastructure provision intended to permit heavier and longer trucks on the nation’s highway system. The CABT is comprised of several organizations – including the National Troopers Coalition, National Sheriffs Association, National Association of Police Organizations, and AAA – and works to ensure that Washington heeds the warning of law enforcement officers, EMTs, and motorists, to limit the size of trucks on the roadways. What: Congressman Cummings Receives Award When: Wednesday, May 16, 2012, 2:00 – 2:15 PM Where: Rayburn House Office Building, Room 2235 # # #
05.15.2012	Washington, DC (May 15, 2012)—Today, the Ranking Members of three House Committees—Rep. Elijah E. Cummings of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Rep. Bob Filner of the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and Rep. Adam Smith of the Armed Services Committee—joined several other Members in introducing legislation to enhance the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA), a law intended to protect against improper foreclosures, evictions, and other negative financial consequences of military service. Click here to read Rep. Cummings' statement and more about the legislation on the Committee website. ###
05.10.2012	Washington, DC (May 10, 2012)—Today, the House Armed Services Committee passed legislation that includes two provisions authored by Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and other Members to enhance diversity and eliminate hazing in the military. Click here to read Congressman Cummings' statement and to learn more about the legislation on the Committee website. ###
05.10.2012	Washington, DC (May 10, 2012)— Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, issued the following statement from the House Floor on the budget reconciliation measure, H.R. 5652 (Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act of 2012). “This week marks the 28th anniversary of Public Service Recognition Week, a week in which we honor the contributions of federal, state, and local government employees. “These employees include outstanding public servants like the IRS’ Shauna Henline from Rep. Rob Bishop’s congressional district, who saved the U.S. taxpayer billions of dollars by identifying and bringing to justice tax evaders and scammers. “They include the State Department’s Shane Morris, a constituent of Rep. Christopher Smith of New Jersey, who played a critical role in ensuring that U.S. diplomats in the Middle East continued to receive classified information, material, and equipment during the Arab Spring uprisings in 2011. “Instead of using this week to celebrate the good work of government employees who dedicate their lives to serving others, the Republican Majority has put legislation on the House floor today that would take billions of dollars out of their pockets. “I ask my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, where is the appreciation or compassion for the dedication and commitment that public employees display day in and day out? It certainly is not in this bill, which is an uncompassionate and wrong-headed approach to our fiscal problems. “The federal employee-related provisions in this bill, which were reported out of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, would reduce the take-home pay of nearly 3 million middle-class American workers by 5% by mandating increased retirement contributions. “The bill also would eliminate the FERS annuity supplement for new workers who retire before they are eligible for Social Security at age 62. According to the Office of Personnel Management, the average annuity amount for current FERS retirees is nearly $700 per month. “I do not think any American who has dedicated his or her life to public service should be forced to lose that much money on a monthly basis, particularly those on a fixed retirement budget. “Our middle class federal employees have already contributed $75 billion towards deficit reduction and other government programs, while millionaires and billionaires have not been asked to contribute one additional cent to improve our government’s financial condition. “I strongly urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation and instead support a more rational and equitable budget proposal that asks for shared sacrifice from everyone in our country. “I thank the gentleman from Maryland for the time and I yield back the balance.” ###
05.09.2012	Washington, DC (May 9, 2012)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in support of a new alternative proposal by the Postmaster General to reduce window service times at rural post offices before moving to close or consolidate them. Click ###
05.07.2012	Baltimore, MD - Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings announced Ms. Laura Ryan, a senior at Reservoir High School in Fulton, MD, winner of the 2012 Congressional Arts Competition for the 7th Congressional District of Maryland. Her submission, a painting entitled "Unity," was selected to be displayed for one year in the Cannon tunnel to the U.S. Capitol by a panel of judges from Baltimore's fine arts community. Ms. Ryan also received a congressional citation and a gift certificate from Southwest Airlines. She will join Congressional Art Competition winners from across the country at a Washington, DC, reception in their honor on June 20, 2012. "I am proud to congratulate Ms. Ryan and all of the gifted, young artists of the 7th Congressional District," Congressman Cummings said. "This competition is a wonderful way to showcase their talent on a national stage." This year's judges awarded runner-up honors to Ms. Chloe Niclas. The 12th grader at Baltimore School for the Arts received a congressional citation, and her untitled drawing will be displayed for one year in Congressman Cummings' Baltimore District office. A photo of Ms. Ryan, Congressman and Mrs. Cummings, and the winning artwork is attached.
05.07.2012	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, joined Representatives Judy Chu, Mike Honda, and other House Members in introducing The Harry Lew Military Hazing Accountability and Prevention Act of 2012, legislation to prevent hazing in our armed services. Click here to read more about this legislation on the Committee website.. ###
05.01.2012	Washington, DC – Tomorrow, Wednesday, May 2, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings will speak on the state of housing in Black America at a public issues forum hosted by the National Association of Real Estate Brokers. Congressman Cummings will offer his perspective on home ownership and the foreclosure crisis in African American communities in the District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia regions. He will be joined at the forum by Howard University President Dr. Sidney Ribeau and District of Columbia Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton. What: Congressman Cummings Speaks When: Wednesday, May 2, 2012, 11:15 – 11:35 PM Where: Cramton Auditorium, Howard University, 2455 Sixth St. NW, Washington, DC
04.24.2012	Washington, DC - Tomorrow, Wednesday, April 25, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings will receive the "Champion of Healthcare Innovation" award from the Healthcare Leadership Council. Cummings will receive the honor for his efforts to make medical innovation more accessible to patients and consumers. The Healthcare Leadership Council is a coalition of chief executives of national leading healthcare companies working to develop policies, plans, and programs to ensure that affordable, high-quality care is accessible to all Americans. What: Congressman Cummings Receives “Champion of Healthcare Innovation” Award When: Wednesday, April 25, 2012, 10:00 AM – 11:00 AM Where: 345 Cannon Caucus Room, Cannon House Office Building, Washington, DC # # # #
04.17.2012	Cummings Opening Statement Hearing on “GSA’s Squandering of Taxpayer Dollars: A Pattern of Mismanagement, Excess and Waste” Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a senior Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, made the following statement during a hearing in the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management regarding the extravagant spending at a 2010 GSA conference: “Thank you Mr. Chairman. At today’s hearing, we have an opportunity to continue to review the actions of GSA employees who organized and participated in the 2010 conference in Las Vegas. Yesterday, at a hearing before the Oversight Committee, we heard testimony from Inspector General Brian Miller, who is here again today. Mr. Miller, I want to thank you again for bringing to light this gross abuse of taxpayer funds and for your office’s year-long investigation of this issue. Mr. Miller’s report yesterday was very troubling. For example, he described the actions of Jeff Neely, a career GSA employee for many years and a senior-level executive in the Pacific Rim region based in San Francisco. Although Mr. Neely is not the only official implicated in this investigation, his role as the host of the 2010 conference has raised significant questions. According to the Inspector General’s investigation, Mr. Neely engaged in a pattern of misconduct that included violating federal travel and procurement rules, holding lavish parties in luxury suites, and allowing his wife and other non-government officials to participate in some of these events at taxpayer expense. As I said at yesterday’s hearing, Mr. Neely disregarded one of the most basic tenets of government service—he treated taxpayer funds as if they were his own. We also heard troubling new accounts from the Inspector General that Mr. Neely may have retaliated against other GSA employees who tried to object to his actions and rein in this lavish spending. According to one witness who spoke with the Inspector General, one GSA employee was “squashed like a bug” when she tried to object to Mr. Neely’s actions. As the Inspector General also told us, one witness was so scared of potential reprisal from Mr. Neely that she asked to be treated as a confidential informant. These reports, although they certainly do not justify Mr. Neely’s actions, may help explain why these improper activities apparently went on for so long. Witnesses reported to the Inspector General that the conference in Las Vegas in 2010 was just the latest in a series of conferences over many years where lavish and extravagant spending had become the norm. As we heard yesterday, this issue was not brought to light until it was reported to the Inspector General by the Deputy Administrator of GSA, Susan Brita, who is here today. Ms. Brita, who is a top-level Democratic political appointee, should be commended for her actions, not only in reporting these abuses, but also for insisting that action be taken to address them. At yesterday’s hearing, Mr. Neely invoked his right under the Fifth Amendment to remain silent, and the Committee excused him from testifying. The Inspector General also confirmed for the Oversight Committee that has referred this case to the Department of Justice. Today, we will have the opportunity to continue examining this issue in detail, including hearing from other GSA officials who were involved, including Bob Peck, the former Commissioner of GSA’s Public Building Service, who apparently condoned and sanctioned the actions of Mr. Neely. Finally, let me close by noting that there are millions of government workers across the country who dedicate their entire lives to public service. They are scrupulous, honest, and hardworking, and we should not use today’s hearing to tarnish their reputations. We should thank them for their hard work and honor their service. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.” # # # #
04.09.2012	Washington, D.C. (Apr. 9, 2012) — Tomorrow, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings will deliver the keynote address at Howard University’s symposium on the future of U.S. health care, highlighting racial, social, and economic barriers to health care access, ways to reduce disparities in health outcomes, and how the Affordable Care Act will expand access to heath care to millions of Americans. Cummings will also discuss the importance of protecting social programs that serve as a safety net for seniors, children and a multitude of communities. The symposium is the second of an annual series at Howard University that brings together thought-leaders to focus on issues of national significance that affect minority communities. It includes three sessions focused on strategies to empower underserved patients, ways for communities of color to use new media tools to manage health care needs, and environmental factors that contribute to health disparities in urban communities. The sessions will be followed by panels with experts and key decision makers and moderated by CNN anchor Fredricka Whitfield. An audience Q&A session will follow each panel.WHAT: Keynote address by Congressman Elijah Cummings at Howard University’s 2012 U.S. Healthcare Symposium: An Urgent Public Policy IssueWHEN: Tuesday, April 10, 2012 2 – 3 PM (Symposium is 8 AM – 5PM) OPEN PRESSWHERE: Armour J. Blackburn Center Ballroom Howard University 2397 6th St., N.W., Washington, D.C. *The symposium is free and open to the public. ###
03.20.2012	Washington, DC (Mar. 20, 2012) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement in response to the House GOP budget plan released today. Click here to read the statement on the Committee website. ###
03.09.2012	Cummings Pleased With Americans Returning To Work (Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Senior Member of the Joint Economic Committee, today released a statement, following the report by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, indicating a gain in February of 227,000 new American jobs. “For two straight years now, President Obama has helped our nation create job growth in the private sector,” said Cummings. “Now, that growth is becoming more and more robust. This is a wonderful indicator for our nation’s economic recovery. However, we can do better. Until every American can put in hard work for a fair paycheck, we will have more work to do. Congress must continue to work with small businesses, corporations and the people of our nation to rebuild our middle class and educate the next generation of Americans to prepare for the jobs of the future. This report shows that we are on our way back, and I hope that we will only continue to improve.” -30-
03.07.2012	BIPARTISAN, BICAMERAL HATCH ACT MODERNIZATION BILL INTRODUCEDSenator Daniel K. Akaka (D-Hawaii) and Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-Maryland) introduced legislation today to modernize the Hatch Act. They were joined in the Senate by cosponsors Senators Joseph Lieberman (ID-Connecticut), Carl Levin (D-Michigan), and Mike Lee (R-Utah).Senator Akaka said: “The Hatch Act has worked for nearly 75 years to shield employees from pressure to use federal time and resources for partisan gain, while also protecting employees’ personal freedoms of choice and expression. It is time for Congress to update the Hatch Act to provide greater flexibility for state and local government employees, and additional options for disciplining federal employees charged with minor violations of the Hatch Act.”Congressman Cummings said: “These are common-sense changes that will clarify the law and make it easier to enforce. State and local employees, such as police officers, should not be banned from running for public office, and there should be punishments less severe than firing for minor violations. I hope this reform will be passed swiftly by the House and Senate so the President can sign it this year.” Senator Levin said: “This legislation will allow hard-working employees of state and local government who are covered by the Hatch Act to run and serve as elected officials in their communities. It is past time that we clarified the Hatch Act so that these highly qualified individuals can have an opportunity to run for public office.”Senator Lieberman said: “This is a common sense bill that would help expand the pool of dedicated and talented public servants running for state and local office and focus scarce resources on more serious investigations. The bill would handle DC government employees more fairly by treating them like state and local employees.”Senator Lee said: "While federal employees must ensure that their first priority is serving the people, they are also citizens and deserve to have their freedoms protected. If we can update the Hatch Act to provide for greater flexibility for public workers while still ensuring the legitimacy of our politics, there should be no reason for anyone to oppose such a change."The Hatch Act Modernization Act of 2012 would:• Allow state and local government employees covered by the Hatch Act to run for partisan elective office;• Provide the Merit Systems Protection Board – the independent federal agency that adjudicates Hatch Act complaints – with flexibility to issue a range of penalties for Hatch Act violations. Currently, employees who violate the Act must be terminated unless the Board unanimously agrees to reduce the penalty; and • Ensure that employees of the District of Columbia are subject to the same restrictions on political activity that currently apply to employees of all other state and local government agencies. The Hatch Act, enacted in 1939 and last amended in 1993, is a federal law that restricts political activity of federal employees, as well as state, local, and District of Columbia government employees whose positions are federally funded. It was created to ensure that federal resources are not directed for partisan political objectives and to protect civil servants from being coerced to participate in political activities. –END–
03.06.2012	Cummings Mourns Patricia Rouse(Washington, DC) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today released a statement following the death of Patty Rouse, widow of Jim Rouse, the legendary creator of Columbia and other planned developments.“Patty Rouse was a visionary who, along with her husband, saw a time when all Americans would have a home they could call their own,” said Cummings. “The goal she and Jim sought in creating Columbia, and in all their housing work, was not just achieving their dream, but of allowing others to live the American Dream. Though Jim, and now Patty, have passed, Columbia will remain as a lasting testament to their vision of creating affordable, livable homes. Meanwhile, Enterprise Community Partners, the organization they co-founded, will continue to find ways to improve and increase affordable housing availability, bringing Patty’s vision to the entire nation. We will miss Patty, her incredible work ethic and her spirit of giving. I join residents of Columbia and our entire District in mourning for her loss and prayer for her friends and family.”-30-
03.06.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 6, 2012 Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today released a statement following the death of Congressman Donald Payne, who served New Jersey in the House of Representatives for 23 years. Rep. Payne was 77. “Today serves as a reminder to all of us who are blessed to serve the people of our communities, that the time we have on this Earth can end much too fast, and that we must constantly be working to improve the lives of those around us, “said Cummings. “My good friend Donald Payne made that his goal each and every day of his life. Being the first African American Congressman from New Jersey did not put a period on his life, but merely a comma. His tireless work for his own constituents was matched only by his desire to encourage better understanding of the cradle of civilization, Africa. “I will pray for Donald’s family and friends, and for those who served on his staff who were so proud to call him a mentor. I will miss his voice, I will miss seeing him striding through the halls of Congress and all of us in Washington will miss his passion. New Jersey has lost a wonderful public servant today and our nation has lost a treasure.” ###
02.27.2012	Cummings Reappointed As Morgan State University Regent(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and former Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, released a statement today following his reappointment as one of 15 members of the Board of Regents of Morgan State University:“Morgan State University is a proud jewel in the crown of Maryland’s education system,” said Cummings. “I am proud to watch students at Morgan State matriculate in my own Congressional District and I believe those students deserve the finest possible education so that they will be able to succeed in the global economy. Competing as a nation will take nothing less than outstanding education for our best and the brightest. My job as a member of the Board of Regents will be to ensure that Morgan State continues producing those men and women that will lead our nation into a bright future. I thank the University and look forward to continuing to serve.”-30-
02.23.2012	Cummings Issues Statement on Postal Closures Announcement Washington, DC (Feb. 23, 2012)—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, as the top democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued abstatement in response to the Postal Service’s announcement that 223 postal process facilities had been selected for full or partial consolidation. Click here to read the full statement on the Committee website.
02.23.2012	Reacts to Nationwide Campaign to Roll Back Access to Contraceptives (Washington, DC) - Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Oversight Committee Ranking Member Elijah Cummings, and Congresswomen Eleanor Holmes Norton and Carolyn Maloney held a Democratic Steering and Policy Committee event today to hear testimony from Sandra Fluke, the Georgetown University law student who was denied the opportunity to appear at a Committee hearing last week to discuss the critical importance of contraceptives to millions of women across the country. Click here to read more about Ms. Fluke's testimony and the event on the Oversight Committee website. ###
02.23.2012	Cummings Welcomes Groundbreaking Of African American Museum(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, welcomed the groundbreaking of the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture.“This is a wonderful moment in the history of our nation,” said Cummings. “For years, the Smithsonian Institution has stood in our nation’s capital, occupying more than a dozen buildings, displaying the most important parts of the history of our world and our nation. With the groundbreaking of the new Museum of African American History and Culture, our national museum recognizes the tremendous role in our history played by the story, tradition and culture of the African American experience. “Our contributions are an indispensable part of our whole as a country; equally responsible, with every other culture and race, for the growth of this nation since its birth. I welcome this Museum, not because it will highlight the contributions of African Americans, but because it will continue to tell the complete and beautiful story of the United States of America.”-30-
02.23.2012	Cummings, Mikulski, Cardin Discuss Pediatric Dental Care Forum Recognizes National Children’s Dental Health Month and Commemorates the Fifth Anniversary of the Death of Deamonte Driver (Washington, DC) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Senator Barbara Mikulski and Senator Ben Cardin hosted a forum Wednesday, to study the expansion of access to children’s dental health care in the past five years. This forum was held as part of National Children’s Dental Health Month, and honored the memory of Deamonte Driver, a 12-year-old Prince George’s County child who died in 2007 when his mother was unable to find a dentist willing to remove his infected tooth. The three lawmakers discussed the state of pediatric dentistry with two panels of experts, learning about both areas of improvements and of need, from government officials, non-profit stakeholders and the mother of twins who was unable to find adequate dental care. “Opportunities to have a real discussion about this issue are critical because the investments we make now in our children’s dental health will last a lifetime,” said Congressman Cummings. “It starts with a simple message to families about the importance of oral health, the power of prevention, and the importance of regular screenings. We must protect the progress we’ve made if we want to prevent another tragedy, while we commit ourselves to closing the gaps that still exist.” Rep. Cummings fought to ensure a guaranteed dental benefit for children enrolled in the Children’s Health Insurance Program as well as the requirement in the Affordable Care Act, which guarantees a pediatric dentistry benefit for every insurance package offered through the Health Insurance Exchange. The ACA also includes investments in oral health infrastructure and the oral health workforce that will help to support a sustainable dental health system. “Everyone, but especially our kids, should get to see a doctor and a dentist to get the health care they need to stay healthy,” Senator Mikulski said. “That’s why I was so proud to announce $40 million in new federal funds for the Children’s Health Insurance Program to pay for health care coverage – including dental coverage – for 137,000 more kids in Maryland. CHIP is so important to families who work every day but can’t afford coverage. That’s how we honor Deamonte Driver - by making sure that kids and adults get the dental care they need to stay healthy.” Maryland has been nationally recognized for leadership in children’s oral health. Maryland increased its Medicaid dental reimbursement to 70% of median retail fees, one of the highest reimbursement rates in the country, creating an increase of nearly 85 percent over the past two years in the number of dentists who treat Medicaid patients. “Dental decay is the most prevalent and treatable disease among children,” said U.S. Senator Ben Cardin. “The tragic death of Deamonte Driver made us all very aware that there can be no health without oral health, and we must make sure that every child in America has access to dental care for preventive services and for the treatment of dental disease.” Challenges still face the pediatric dentistry community however. Rep. Cummings and Sens. Cardin and Mikulski heard evidence that, while improvements are being made, emergency room visits for pediatric dental care are on the rise, indicating a lack of opportunity for traditional dental care on the part of the underprivileged. As well, only 20 states (including Maryland) are currently receiving grants from the Centers for Disease Control to strengthen oral health programs. These grants are badly needed in all 50 states. Rear Admiral William Bailey, Chief Dental Officer of the United States Public Health Service began the discussion, followed by Jennifer Ryan, Deputy Director of the Children and Adults Health Programs Group at the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Dr. Harry Goodman, Director of the Office of Oral Health at the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Dr. Burton Edelstein, Founding Director of the Children’s Dental Health Project and Shelly Gehshan, Director of the Children’s Dental Program at the Pew Charitable Trusts. The first panel of experts was followed by Dr. Neuthan Rao, a dentist at Chase Brexton Health Services, a Federally Qualified Health Center, Dr. Leo E. Rouse, Dean of the Howard University College of Dentistry, Dr. Lawrence Caplin, CEO of the Oral Health Impact Project and Grace Williams, the mother of two autistic twins, who could not find a dentist to treat her children. The Forum was held Wednesday at the University of Maryland Carey School of Law, Moot Court Room. -30-
02.18.2012	Cummings Statement Regarding Potential Internet Legislation(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform today released a statement regarding potential legislation that would affect the Internet:“There is no doubt in my mind that legislation is needed to halt the sale of pirated and counterfeit goods on the Internet. However, I cannot support any proposal that would allow censorship, stifle innovation or leave our nation open to breaches in cybersecurity. I hope that Members of Congress will continue working together to develop a balanced and bi-partisan solution to this very real problem.”-30-
02.17.2012	Cummings Disappointed by Continued Reductions in Federal Pay and BenefitsCongressman votes “no” on payroll tax cut bill that requires sacrifice from only one group: government employees(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today voted “no” on the conference report to accompany H.R. 3630, the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011, because of the major negative impacts it will have on federal workers.The bill will extend the payroll tax cut created by President Obama for the remainder of 2012, while also extending unemployment benefits and adjusting the Medicare “doc fix” to ensure doctors are fully compensated for serving Medicare patients. However, under some circumstances, unemployment benefits may be cut by 30 weeks, and both unemployment and the “doc fix” will be paid for in part by requiring newly hired federal workers to pay a higher percentage of their salaries toward pension contributions.“Our Federal employees are not a piggy bank. We should not reach into their pockets every time we need to pay for something,” said Cummings. “In return for their hard work and dedication, the majority has rewarded federal workers with an unprecedented assault on their compensation and benefits. “Federal workers have already contributed $60 billion toward the reduction of our Federal deficit. They are now being asked to pay for even more, while we refuse to ask millionaires and billionaires to contribute one additional penny. It is time we stop the assault on our Federal workforce. Instead, let us implement policies that will ensure that our investments in our nation are a shared national priority.”H.R. 3630 passed the House by a final vote of 293-132.-30-
02.14.2012	Cummings Welcomes Government Employees To Washington(Washington, DC) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today welcomed workers from the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) to Washington, for their annual Congressional Breakfast. Several hundred AFGE members will follow the breakfast by marching to Capitol Hill in opposition to legislation that would cut compensation and benefits for federal workers. “Continued cuts to the federal workforce will only make government less efficient and effective, harm the federal workforce, and discourage the best and brightest from joining or staying in federal service,” said Cummings. “Federal employees have sacrificed enough already over these two years. It is illogical to think that we can solve our budget deficit problems and balance our books on the backs of federal employees.”AFGE employees are particularly concerned with the continuation of the two-year pay freeze. Proposed legislation would extend the freeze, as well as cut benefits and endanger retirement security for federal employees. The Federal Salary Council recently issued a report that found that federal employees were paid 26% less than employees in similar occupations in the private sector. Cummings also commented on the President’s plan to end the Federal pay freeze in the FY 2013 budget and increase worker pay by one-half percent.“Millions of middle-class American workers are already contributing $60 billion as a result of the existing two-year pay freeze, so a half of one percent pay increase next year is modest but much-needed help. Federal employees should not be asked to contribute any more toward deficit reduction while House Republicans refuse to ask millionaires and billionaires to contribute even a penny.”‬ Read Cummings’s recent interview with the Washington Post on federal workers’ issues, titled Rep. Elijah Cummings: Federal workers ‘have sacrificed enough.’-30-
02.10.2012	Cummings Welcomes Federal Housing Investment In Maryland(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today applauded the award of more than $17 million in grants to the Housing Authority of Baltimore by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development.The three grants are part of the 2012 Capital Fund program which provides annual funds to Public Housing Agencies for capital and management activities, including modernization and development of public housing. “While so many of our citizens are out of work, and while millions are losing their homes, public housing plays an incredibly important role,” said Cummings. “Agencies like the Housing Authority of Baltimore put roofs over the heads of families in need. Without this service, we would see children more worried about where they were going to lay their heads that night than where they could sit to do their homework. Though public housing is by no means perfect, we must continue to support the aims of this often overlooked institution. I applaud HUD for helping Maryland get the job done.”Much of the funding included in the grants was in the form of Replacement Housing fund grants. These are awarded to public housing services that have removed units from their inventory for the purpose of developing new public housing units. -30-
02.09.2012	Cummings Issues Statement on Mortgage SettlementWashington, D.C. —Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement in response to today’s announcement of a multi-billion dollar settlement relating to widespread and illegal abuses by mortgage servicing companies:“First and foremost, I commend the hundreds of officials in the offices of state attorneys general and numerous federal agencies for their dedication and hard work over the course of the last year to achieve this settlement. This landmark bipartisan deal will begin to address the wrongs committed by banks over the past several years, and it will continue the difficult process of helping our nation’s economic recovery to continue its solid gains. As the Attorney General in my home state of Maryland has said, this settlement is a ‘first step, but it’s a giant first step.’“I believe these state and federal officials exercised their best judgment in brokering this deal while preserving their rights to pursue criminal charges for fraud and misconduct in the securitization of mortgages that cost states and investors untold sums. I am also pleased that the settlement does not prevent any homeowners from pursuing individual claims against banks or servicers that violated their legal rights.“Although I had been prepared to offer my full endorsement of this settlement, I was concerned to hear reports earlier this week that the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) refused to allow the loan modification provisions of the settlement to extend to loans owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. I do not understand the rationale for this decision since these loans make up a majority of the nation’s mortgage market, and we need more information to fully evaluate this situation. “As I wrote in a letter yesterday, FHFA’s acting director, Edward DeMarco, has consistently refused to carry out the mission Congress gave him to maximize assistance to homeowners. He has refused to allow Fannie and Freddie to utilize principal reduction programs—even though his own data demonstrate that they could save the American taxpayers billions of dollars. And now, a former Fannie employee has come forward to inform us that a principal reduction pilot program was cancelled in 2010 by officials who were ‘philosophically opposed’ to the concept of reducing principal.“Although today’s announcement is welcome news, much more needs to be done. Five banks have agreed to this settlement, but we must press forward aggressively to ensure that remaining banks are held to the same standard. In addition, as the Ranking Member of the House Oversight Committee, I will continue my own investigation of the banks’ illegal practices and will continue to seek the accountability the American people deserve.
02.09.2012	Cummings Concerned With House Changes To STOCK Act(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today voted to pass the House Amendment to S. 2038, the STOCK Act, which would punish insider trading by Members of Congress and their staff.In a speech on the House floor Thursday morning, Rep. Cummings expressed particular concern over the removal of a provision that would require those who peddle political intelligence for profit to register and report their activities.“House Republicans have stripped out of a bipartisan bill that passed the Senate overwhelmingly key provisions that were supported by Democrats and Republicans alike,” said Cummings, who spoke Thursday morning on the House floor. “Senator Chuck Grassley, Republican Senator from Iowa, was among the first to criticize House Republicans’ actions, after they eliminated his provision to require greater transparency over so-called “political intelligence” consultants.Rep. Cummings also expressed concern regarding unintentional drafting errors that might have been included in the House amendment to the bill. For example, the current bill could be interpreted as requiring that confidential financial disclosure forms filed by low-level executive branch employees must be posted online. “Let me be clear, no Members of Congress should be able to benefit personally from information they gain by virtue of their service in Congress. While I support the purpose of this legislation, I believe we could and should craft a better bill to accomplish these important objectives.”The House Amendment to the STOCK Act passed the House 417-2.
02.06.2012	Cummings, Cardin, Brown, Baker Participate in National Children’s Dental Health Month Press Conference (Washington, DC) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform today joined U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD), Lieutenant Governor Anthony Brown, and Prince George’s County Executive Rushern Baker at a press conference to kick off National Children’s Dental Health Month. National Children's Dental Health Month is a campaign sponsored by the American Dental Association to focus efforts on improving the oral health status of all children. The event also commemorated the five-year anniversary of the death of Deamonte Driver, a 12-year-old child from Prince George’s County who died from an abscessed tooth. “Deamonte Driver died, in the greatest nation on Earth, for want of a dental procedure that cost mere pennies compared to the potential we lost in his passing,” said Congressman Cummings. “He died because his mother was unable to find a single dentist who could perform a simple, critical preventive procedure for the payment offered by Medicaid. We must not allow him to have died in vain. We must continue to work to fix the dental health inequalities that exist in our country. We can do better, and we must, for Deamonte.” “Deamonte Driver’s story is a tragic example of how important oral health is to overall health,” said Senator Cardin, whose provision creating a guaranteed dental benefit was included in the 2009 reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). “Our health care system failed Deamonte, so I made a vow to do all in my power to ensure that children have access to dental care. No child should ever again have to suffer from something as treatable as tooth decay.” The event also highlighted the collaborative partnerships of the Prince George’s County Health Department with the Deamonte Driver Dental Project, Prince George’s County Head Start and the Howard University College of Dentistry. “The Deamonte Driver Dental Project has fostered collaborative partnerships to address one of the most preventable childhood problems -- poor dental health,” said Betty Thomas, the Project Director of the Deamonte Driver Dental Project. “The project has made tremendous gains in increasing access to available dentistry for some of the most vulnerable children in Prince George's County.” -30-
02.03.2012	Cummings Chairs Hearing To Discuss Rise In Employment(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Senior Member of the Joint Economic Committee, chaired the hearing of that Committee Friday morning to discuss the January employment report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The report indicated that unemployment fell two points in January to 8.3 percent, and that 243,000 jobs were added.“Our nation is growing stronger through the hard work of the American people, and I am very happy that even more of them are able to go to work than last year,” said Cummings. “Thanks to the Recovery Act and other legislation passed in the first two years of the Obama Administration, we have seen positive growth in private sector employment every single month for the last 23 months. I am particularly pleased to see that African American unemployment dropped in January, but I also realize that an unemployment rate in that community of 13.6 percent is still completely unacceptably high. “We must continue to put Americans back to work. I challenge every single member of the House and Senate to put aside their partisan rhetoric and strive toward one single, unifying goal: the continued growth of the American economy.”In prepared remarks for the Joint Economic Committee, Cummings said, “We need to help workers regain their footing and bolster the recovery by extending the payroll tax cut for the remainder of the year and continuing unemployment insurance for workers who are counting on these benefits to make ends meet. Both of these policies put money in people’s pockets – boosting demand, creating jobs and strengthening our economy.”-30-
02.02.2012	Cummings Unhappy With Defeat Of Local Hire AmendmentAmendment was intended to ensure local workers build local transportations projects(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Senior Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, was troubled by the defeat today of his amendment to H.R. 7, the American Energy and Infrastructure Jobs Act of 2012, colloquially known as the “highway bill.” The amendment would have established standards under which a local jurisdiction could require jobs on highway and transit projects in their communities to be performed by residents of the local area. The amendment required that the Secretary of Transportation develop standards under which a local jurisdiction would be allowed to require local hiring if a project was constructed in an area of high unemployment and if the project cost $25 million or more or the local jurisdiction had entered into a specific agreement with the Department of Transportation.“My amendment did not require that local hiring occur on any project,” said Cummings. “It would simply have given local jurisdictions the option of electing to require local hiring at their own discretion. “People in my hometown of Baltimore are crying out for jobs. If this transportation reauthorization is enacted, my constituents’ hard-earned tax dollars would fund the projects authorized by this bill. I believe that when such projects are undertaken in our community, local authorities should be able to require that some of the jobs created by these projects go to local residents.”“I have heard citizens and local officials across the country. They are frustrated that the construction of new infrastructure in their communities too often yields few or no employment opportunities for local residents. Unfortunately, my friends across the aisle have not heard these same pleas.”Cummings’ amendment was supported by a number of organizations, including the International Union of Operating Engineers and the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America as well as the Transportation Equity Network, T4 America, the Partnership for Working Families, and Associated Black Charities.-30-
02.02.2012	Cummings Disappointed By Defeat Of Amendment To Highway Bill Amendment was intended to strengthen program to aid Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Senior Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, was disappointed today by the defeat of his amendment to H.R. 7, the American Energy and Infrastructure Jobs Act of 2012, colloquially known as the “highway bill.” The amendment was intended to strengthen the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) programs for surface transportation projects. Rep. Cummings offered the amendment with colleagues from the Committee including Reps. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Laura Richardson (D-CA) and Donna Edwards (D-MD), to add a statutory purpose and specific findings to the bill. The amendment would also prohibit excessive or discriminatory bonding requirements and require annual adjustments to the personal net worth cap. “Given how important our disadvantaged businesses are to creating employment opportunities in the transportation realm, it is critical that we add provisions ensuring that the personal net worth cap is raised regularly and discriminatory bonding requirements are prohibited,” said Cummings. “By voting against my amendment, my Republican colleagues opposed commonsense measures to strengthen the DBE program. “My colleagues also refused to include evidence documenting continued under-representation of minorities in contracting, business ownership, and business earnings in the transportation realm. “Such findings are necessary to document the discrimination that continues to be a significant barrier for minority- and women-owned businesses seeking to do business in federally-assisted surface transportation markets and to explain how this ongoing discrimination merits the continuation of the disadvantaged business enterprise programs. “My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have made it clear that they oppose improving the DBE program. I am greatly disappointed in that decision.” The amendment would also have required training for State Departments of Transportation regarding certification of DBEs. -30-
02.01.2012	Cummings Stands Firm Against Government Worker Pay Freeze(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today managed the opposition on the floor of the House of Representatives to H.R. 3835, a bill which would continue to freeze the pay of Federal workers throughout the nation.“Federal workers are literally the backbone of our government,” Cummings remarked, during his speech on the House floor. “They support our troops on the battlefield and take care of our veterans when they return home. They protect our borders, safeguard our food supply, ensure that seniors receive their Social Security checks, and hunt down terrorists like Osama bin Laden. They carry out each and every Federal program, service, and initiative Congress has created. “Despite the critical nature of the services that Federal workers provide, the majority believes that their pay should be frozen for yet another year, that their retirement benefits should be slashed, and that the size of the Federal workforce should be reduced sharply, even though it is smaller now than it was under Presidents Reagan and George H.W. Bush. “The only workable solution to our country’s budget deficit is a balanced one that includes shared sacrifice, including from the wealthiest among us. To date, however, the Republican majority has yet to bring before this House a single bill that would require millionaires and billionaires to contribute more toward deficit reduction. Instead, they are preoccupied with taking money out of the pockets of middle class public servants. “This bill appears to be a disingenuous and disrespectful attack against Federal workers and the regular order of the House. I strongly urge Members to oppose the bill.”-30-
01.27.2012	Cummings Welcomes First Responder Grant For Baltimore City (Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today released a statement following the award of an Assistance to Firefighters Grant totaling almost $1.4 million, for improvements in Baltimore City Fire Department Operations and Safety.The “Fire Grants” are administered by the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency, in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration.“Our firefighters and paramedics are the first line of defense for many people in our city against pain, tragedy and heartbreak,” said Cummings. “Firefighters provide the only medical care that many in our community can afford. They offer services to protect our structures and citizens against fire. In the event that a fire does touch the lives of those in our city, they respond in mere seconds, to extinguish the fire and save lives. I am incredibly pleased, in this time of fiscal austerity across the nation, that Baltimore City has received this grant, which will help ensure that the brave men and women of our fire service have the funding they need to continue protecting our city.”The purpose of the Fire Grant is to award grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Using a competitive process that is overseen by fire service subject matter experts, grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program.Since 2001, the Fire Grant has provided approximately $5 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to help them obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training.The Fire Grant award to the Baltimore City Fire Department totaled $1,393,432.-30-
01.24.2012	Cummings Responds To State Of The Union Address(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement after the State of the Union address by President Barack Obama:“Tonight, President Obama spoke about the importance of a country that is built to last,” said Cummings. “He spoke about the promise that I made to my children when they were born, that I would do my best to give them a nation stronger, better, safer and more equal than the one I was given as a child. Unfortunately, the results that we teach our children to expect have gone wanting in our nation today. Americans who work hard are no longer assured an equal opportunity at success. However, I believe that the America that President Obama spoke about tonight is possible to regain, and that we must continue to fight to rebuild American manufacturing, to create American energy, to retrain American workers, and to renew our American values.“I also applaud the President for speaking out on a critical issue of our day, the housing crisis. Economists have told us that repairing this sector of our economy and rescuing homeowners from the straits in which many still find themselves remains crucial to our economic recovery. We cannot rebuild our nation so long as millions of Americans are losing the largest investment that many of them will ever make.“With this in mind, I am pleased that President Obama announced his intention to create the Unit on Mortgage Origination and Securitization Abuses, which will work with attorneys general and prosecutors, finally cracking down on fraud, robosigning and other lending abuses. President Obama called on Congress to give all responsible homeowners the opportunity to refinance, saving an average of 3,000 dollars a year. This will keep more Americans in their homes, keep communities strong and help rebuild our economy. We must act on this bold, effective effort to help end the housing crisis, and we must not allow obstruction to slow us down. “The President is correct, we cannot go back to an economy based on sending American jobs overseas, allowing bad debt to accrue and creating accounting rules that show profits where none actually exist. The American Dream is at stake, and we must make certain it is passed on to the next generation of Americans.”-30-
01.16.2012	Cummings Remembers Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) today released a statement on the occasion of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day:“Today, we remember the man who many place at the head of our struggle to recognize the most basic human rights for everyone in our nation,” said Cummings. “Dr. King did not speak as only an African American who desired the rights he felt were given to him by God; he also spoke as the voice for all those who were oppressed, who were downtrodden, and who thought our nation could be better than it was. In his most famous speech Dr. King spoke for the children of our nation, encouraging us to build a better nation for our children to enjoy.“Dr. King sought a nation of equality, a nation where the American Dream was possible for all men and women who worked hard to achieve it. This simple, yet powerful message has carried on long past his death, and I hope and pray that it will continue. It is the most basic theory of America, that every person on this Earth is endowed with the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and that America should be the bright shining star that redeems the promise of those rights.“President Obama has continued our national commitment to the Day of Service that honors Dr. King. I share the belief that Dr. King espoused when he said, ‘All labor that uplifts humanity has dignity and importance and should be undertaken with painstaking excellence.’ Volunteering and service to America uplifts all of us, and therefore I ask all Marylanders to join in this Day of Service and serve with the painstaking excellence that Dr. King’s memory demands.” Congressman Cummings recommends that interested Marylanders visit https://MLKDay.gov to learn more about the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service.-30-
01.12.2012	Cummings Applauds Maryland Commitment to Affordable Rental Housing (Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today applauded the commitment of $15 million in budgeted funding by the State of Maryland to create new affordable rental housing opportunities for Marylanders.The program, announced Thursday morning, is designed to support jobs and provide much-needed affordable rental housing for Maryland’s hardworking families, including Maryland’s seniors and individuals with special needs. It will provide critical gap funding for shovel-ready projects that are already in the pipeline, allowing Maryland to focus on resources and developments that will positively impact Maryland’s economy as quickly as possible.“This initiative is welcome news at a time when millions have lost their jobs, and millions more are without roofs over their heads because of foreclosure,” said Cummings. “Governor O’Malley and the State Legislature are to be commended for their efforts toward not only creating jobs for Marylanders, but for constructing homes that families will be able to afford, creating better opportunities for many to get back on their feet and contribute to our economic recovery.”The new initiative will provide funding to up to 20 affordable housing projects and support more than 1,100 jobs in Maryland.According to State organizers, because the funding will be primarily used for so-called “shovel-ready” projects, the $15 million being invested by the State is likely to be leveraged to more than $250 million in private sector funding for affordable rental housing construction.-30-
01.12.2012	Cummings Welcomes Assistance For Unemployed HomeownersFannie Mae and Freddie Mac announce plans to allow homeowners to defer mortgage payments(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform today released a statement, following guidance being issued to banks, by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, allowing unemployed Americans to defer mortgage payments, rather than facing foreclosure.The two mortgage giants both sent instructions to lenders within the last week, allowing banks to offer six months of forbearance automatically and granting another six months, contingent on being approved by Fannie or Freddie.“I am pleased with this policy change by Fannie and Freddie, because it means that more American families will have more time to keep a roof over their heads until our economy is jump started,” said Cummings. “I have been fighting this battle, alongside these homeowners, against what seem like insurmountable odds. Last year I called on Fannie and Freddie to take this exact step to protect homeowners. Thankfully, they have finally heard the call to arms.“It has long been known that fixing the housing crisis is the key to rebuilding our economy. Until recently, we have seen only small drips of assistance. Now, at long last, it seems like the dam is breaking and help is on the way for millions of Americans who simply want to keep the largest investment that many of them will ever make.”On August 1st of last year, Rep. Cummings joined 27 other Members of Congress in calling for Fannie and Freddie to, “extend to twelve months the forbearance period for unemployed homeowners with mortgages owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.”The announcement by Fannie and Freddie came swiftly on the heels of a Federal Reserve statement last week, recommending loan modifications and additional incentives to servicers who seek alternatives to foreclosure. The statement by Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke was seen as a rare opinion issued outside the realm of monetary policy.-30-
01.06.2012	Cummings Pleased With Rise In Employment(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Elijah Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released a statement following the announcement by the Bureau of Labor Statistics that 200,000 new American jobs were created in December. “I am very pleased that 200,000 American families had more food on the table and more financial stability during this holiday season,” said Cummings. “However, we must not mistake a comma for a period. The job growth over the past year has been steady and solid, and we must encourage it by investing in education, innovation and infrastructure. Congress can help supercharge our recovery when we return by providing certainty for the American people. “Rather than bouncing from one manufactured crisis to another, we must extend the payroll tax cut for a full year and fund the nation for the coming year, which we are required to do by law. We should also put real effort into letting go of the anchor that is weighing down our economic recovery by truly solving the housing crisis. So much can be done for such a large number of people, if we are just willing to try.I challenge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to return to Washington this month ready to put politics aside and go to work for the American people. We must stop being a do-nothing Congress and start being part of a national solution, so more Americans can return to work all across our country.”Thanks to added employment in December, the unemployment rate dipped to 8.5 percent, its lowest level in nearly three years. December also capped a six-month stretch during which the economy created more than 100,000 jobs each month. That mark had not been reached since April 2006, before the economic downturn began.-30-
01.04.2012	Cummings Lauds Appointment of Cordray to Head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau(Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Elijah Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s appointment today of Richard Cordray to lead the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB):“I applaud the President’s decision to appoint Richard Cordray as the new head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. American consumers urgently need an advocate on their side, and Mr. Cordray has a proven track record of holding financial institutions accountable. With Mr. Cordray at the helm, I hope the Bureau will finally become the strong consumer advocate that Congress and the President intended it to be. By taking this decisive action, the President has sent a strong signal that Americans must not wait a day longer for the crucial consumer protections the Bureau will provide. “Republican Senators blocked this confirmation not because Mr. Cordray was unqualified—in fact, they have conceded publicly that he is extremely well-qualified. Instead, they blocked his confirmation because they oppose the whole idea of an agency that protects middle-class families and American consumers from the abuses of Wall Street corporations. Members of Congress swear an oath to uphold and defend the Constitution, but Republican Senators had prevented the Senate from fulfilling its duty to confirm this well-qualified candidate.”-30-
12.29.2011	Cummings Welcomes Children’s Healthcare Bonus Award (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today welcomed an award of more than $28 million to Maryland from the United States Department of Health and Human Services, as a bonus for simplifying Medicaid enrollment and renewal processes and for increasing enrollment of uninsured children in the Medicaid program. The Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009 (CHIPRA) established “performance bonuses” for States to support the enrollment and retention of eligible children in Medicaid and CHIP. “Governor O’Malley and his Administration should be commended for their incredible efforts,” said Cummings. “Maryland is a national leader in caring for the medical needs of our children and promoting wellness in our communities. I have often said that our children are the living messages we send to a future that we will never see. This bonus shows that Maryland is committed to shaping that message, and that we want it to be one of hope and promise. Our children must grow up healthy, so that they can thrive and make our nation better for their children and for generations yet unborn.” In order to qualify for a bonus, States must have in place at least five program features known to facilitate enrollment and retention in health coverage programs in their Medicaid and CHIP programs. In addition, States must submit data documenting any significant increase in Medicaid enrollment among children over the course of the fiscal year. The bonus awarded to Maryland was the largest in the nation. -30-
12.16.2011	Congressman Cummings Welcomes Race To The Top Grant(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today welcomed the awarding of a $500 million Race To The Top education grant, which will be split among nine states, including Maryland, which is expected to be awarded $50 million. The Race to the Top-Early Learning Challenge fund is a competitive grant program jointly administered by the U.S. Departments of Education and Health and Human Services. “This grant will help the youngest children in our state begin their educations as early as possible so that they can become productive, intelligent citizens, who are ready to lead our nation into the future,” said Cummings. “Although we have struggled to educate our country, nothing is more important to our future as a nation and a civilization than ensuring that the tools of knowledge and wisdom are passed to our children. That is why we must continue to develop and implement innovative strategies to reform and strengthen our educational system. I applaud the Obama Administration for its commitment to providing access to quality education for all of our children. I also commend Governor Martin O’Malley, the Maryland State Department of Education, and all of our State’s partners in education for putting together a winning plan for success.The Race to the Top-Early Learning Challenge will support the work of the nine state grantees to develop new approaches to raising the bar across early learning centers and to close the school readiness gap. Awards will invest in grantees’ work to build statewide systems of high-quality early learning and development programs. -30-
12.15.2011	Congressman Cummings Welcomes The End Of War In Iraq (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today released a statement following the official end of the conflict in Iraq. “Our men and women in arms have struggled mightily, with far too many injured or dead in a land far away from so many of their friends, family and proud countrymen,” said Cummings. “Now it is time for our nation to welcome them home with open arms as we celebrate their achievements and the end of their service in battle. I also thank President Obama for keeping the promise he made to bring our troops home and end this costly war. “However, we must never forget the losses we endured in more than 4,400 of our servicemembers killed and in the incredible treasure spent by the people of our nation. There are also the losses we will never fully comprehend, in the lives of those torn apart here at home, and the hidden battles still raging in the hearts and minds of those who served. These men and women have done all we have asked of them as warriors and we must now do all we have promised as a grateful nation. “I also look forward to a relationship with our newest ally in the Middle East, an independent nation of Iraq that will play a vital role in spreading democracy in that region and throughout the world. -30-
12.12.2011	Cummings Launches Investigation of CEO Pay at For-Profit CollegesSeeks Documents on Whether Taxpayer Funds Are Used for Lavish Executive Pay or to Enhance Student Performance(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Rep. Elijah Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent letters to the CEOs of 13 for-profit schools seeking copies of compensation agreements for senior executives as part of an effort to determine whether salaries, bonuses, and other compensation are appropriately tied to the performance of students they educate, the vast majority of whom pay for their education with federal tax dollars.“The American taxpayers fund these schools through billions of dollars in tuition assistance, but there is little evidence that lavish executive pay is linked to the well-being of the students they are supposed to educate,” said Cummings. “Congress has a responsibility to ensure that taxpayer funds are being used first and foremost for the benefit of students, not to line the pockets of corporate executives.”For-profit schools receive the majority of their funding from U.S. taxpayers in the form of student assistance, including Title IV loans and grants, Title X tuition assistance, and Veterans Education Assistance Act funds. When compared to public and nonprofit schools, for-profit companies spend a smaller percentage of their funds on student education, reserving more for marketing, advertising, recruitment, and other non-education expenses. Their student success rates are lower, and their students are more likely to default on loan payments. Studies have found that CEOs at for-profit colleges consistently make much more than their counterparts at public and nonprofit schools.Cummings sent letters to the following 13 for-profit schools seeking documents by December 23, 2011:• Apollo Group, Inc. • Bridgepoint Education, Inc. • Capella Education Company• Career Education Corporation• Corinthian Colleges, Inc.• DeVry, Inc.• Education Management Corporation • Grand Canyon Education, Inc. • ITT Educational Services, Inc.• Kaplan, Inc. • Lincoln Educational Services Corporation• Strayer Education, Inc. • Universal Technical Institute, Inc.Over the past three Congresses, Cummings has been a nationally recognized leader investigating excessive corporate salaries, bonuses, stock options, and other compensation. As a Member of the Oversight Committee, he has investigated unwarranted bonuses for AIG executives, conflicts of interest with compensation consultants, the disconnect between corporate pay and company performance, and the widening gap between the ultra-rich and middle-class American workers. Since becoming the Committee’s Ranking Member this year, Cummings has continued these efforts. In August, he called on Committee Chairman Darrell Issa to hold hearings after a report issued by the Institute for Policy Studies revealed that 25 of the top 100 highest paid CEOs received more in compensation last year than their companies paid in federal taxes.Last month, Cummings led the charge to investigate the compensation of executives at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, who were paid more than $12 million in bonuses despite deficient performance in helping American families facing foreclosure and despite Inspector General reports finding inadequate management practices.Today, Cummings is also delivering the keynote address on executive compensation at the Americans for Financial Reform Conference hosted by Public Citizen. -30-
12.08.2011	Cummings Welcomes School-Based Health Centers Grant Baltimore-based company awarded nearly half-million dollars to help increase wellness among students. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today welcomed a grant of nearly $500,000 given to a Baltimore-area company to increase the effectiveness of school-based health centers, enabling children with acute or chronic illnesses to attend school, and improve the overall health and wellness of all children through health screenings, health promotion and disease prevention activities. Baltimore Medical System, Inc. has been awarded $499,929 through the Affordable Care Act, which provides $200 million in funding from 2010 – 2013 for the School-Based Health Center Capital Program to address significant and pressing capital needs and to improve delivery and support expansion of services at school-based health centers. . “Healthy students tend to learn more, achieve more in school and go onto more successful lives,” said Cummings. “The more we can encourage wellness, treat childhood maladies, and encourage healthy choices throughout life, the more we will save in healthcare costs and the stronger our society will be. I was a strong supporter of the Affordable Care Act signed into law by President Obama, mostly because of programs like this one, which will help our children be the building blocks of a stronger, healthier America.” Yesterday, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced more than $14 million in awards to 45 school-based health centers across the country, allowing the number of children served to increase by nearly 50 percent. Clinics receiving the awards, made possible by the health reform law, are already providing much-needed health care services to 112,000 children. Today’s infusion of new money will enable them to expand their capacity and modernize their facilities, which will allow them to treat an estimated additional 53,000 children in 29 States. -30-
12.02.2011	Cummings Pleased With Growth, Presses for Continued Improvement (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the Joint Economic Committee, released a statement today, following the November employment report released this morning by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, indicating that more than 120,000 jobs had been added and that unemployment had dropped below 9 percent. “Americans are returning to work in increasing numbers, which is a great relief to so many families who will now see a paycheck this holiday season,” said Cummings. “It is a relief to me as well, but it is also a result upon which I am certain we can improve. This growth in employment has come because of the strength of the American people, the work done by President Obama and by our slowly recovering economy. Congress, however, must do more to help that recovery and to put more Americans back to work. “My friends in the majority have yet to pass a single substantive jobs bill to help create good paying, American jobs, nor have they called a vote to extend the unemployment benefits critical to those who still cannot find work. We can do better, and for the sake of the American people, our children, and generations yet unborn, we must put aside our partisan politics and focus on continued job creation.” -30-
12.01.2011	Cummings Recognizes World AIDS Day(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today recognized the 23rd observation of World AIDS Day. Recognizing the spread of HIV infection and the pandemic of AIDS it has led to, World AIDS Day is particularly poignant in the City of Baltimore, which had the fourth highest AIDS case report rate of any major metropolitan area, 29.6 cases per 100,000 population during 2007. Earlier this week, it was reported that nearly three-quarters of Americans who have contracted AIDS are being treated with less than the most advanced possible medical care.“World AIDS Day is important because it addresses so many critical steps on a pathway to losing fewer Americans to this disease,” said Cummings. “World AIDS Day is about awareness, it is about education and it is about treatment. Finally, World AIDS Day is about acknowledging that although AIDS is not the fatal diagnosis it once was, we are nowhere near the finish line we seek in conquering this devastating epidemic.”World AIDS Day is held on December 1st each year and is an opportunity for people worldwide to unite in the fight against HIV, show their support for people living with HIV and to commemorate people who have died. World AIDS Day was the first ever global health day, first held in 1988.More than 25 million people between 1981 and 2007 have died from the virus, making it one of the most destructive pandemics in history.-30-
11.11.2011	Cummings Salutes Veterans (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today released a statement on the occasion of Veterans Day. “Armistice Day was created following World War One, as a day to honor the veterans of the ‘war to end all wars’,” said Cummings. “Of course, wars have not ended and since then, millions of men and women have served, and thousands have died in the service of our nation’s military. Veterans Day honors them all. The instances of our brothers and sisters being called upon to give the ultimate sacrifice show that no matter how many years pass in the history of our great nation, the freedoms we enjoy are not guaranteed. “I urge all Marylanders to take a moment on the 11th day of the 11th month, as our nation first did so many years ago, to consider the sacrifices both big and small made in our names, and to honor the men and women who are called upon daily to make those sacrifices.” -30-
11.10.2011	Ahead of Veterans Day, Members Continue Efforts to Help Military Families Avoid Foreclosure Washington, DC – Today, Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings and several Members of Congress sent a letter to Edward DeMarco, the Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), seeking information about mortgage servicing companies that may have improperly denied access to housing assistance programs for servicemembers ordered by the military to relocate. “As Veterans Day approaches,” the Members wrote, “we must keep in mind the sacrifices that our military servicemembers make on behalf of this nation, and we must ensure that policies intended to ease the unique burdens faced by our servicemembers are fully implemented.” On September 27, 2011, Cummings and 11 other Members wrote to federal housing regulators requesting a review of challenges facing servicemembers who receive Permanent Change in Station (PCS) orders and may be unable to sell their homes quickly at prices that will enable them to pay off their mortgages. On October 11, 2011, FHFA responded that mortgage servicing companies “are telling service members they cannot receive any assistance unless they are delinquent on their mortgage” and “have apparently suggested that PCS orders do not qualify as a hardship under the Enterprises’ borrower assistance programs.” Both actions run “counter to explicit guidance” from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and are “incorrect,” according to FHFA. In their letter today, the Members requested that FHFA “provide any information your agency has collected, along with any information you have received from other federal agencies, relating to these allegations, including the identities of the mortgage servicing companies who engaged in these actions.” Cummings has lead efforts in Congress to help military families avoid foreclosure. On July 12, 2011, Cummings issued a report about the growing problem of illegal foreclosures against U.S. servicemembers and convened a forum on this issue with Senator John Rockefeller. Holly Petraeus, the Director of the Office of Servicemember Affairs at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, praised Cummings for spearheading efforts to help military families avoid foreclosure. -30-
11.08.2011	Cummings Requests FHFA Director Testify at Hearing on Fannie and Freddie Executive Compensation (Washington, DC) – Today, Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings sent a letter to Chairman Issa requesting that he invite Edward DeMarco, the Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), to testify at the Committee’s hearing on executive compensation at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on November 16, 2011. “In order to properly examine these compensation packages,” Cummings wrote, “the Committee should hear from the official who approved them, Mr. DeMarco.”In 2010, FHFA reportedly approved $12.79 million in bonus pay for ten Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives. Earlier this year, however, the FHFA Inspector General issued a report concluding that FHFA lacks the controls to monitor and evaluate the Enterprises’ executive compensation decisions and fails to make them transparent to the public. Cummings also requested that Issa ask FHFA to produce to the Committee, by November 14, copies of all compensation packages for the top executives at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.Below is the letter.November 8, 2011The Honorable Darrell E. IssaChairmanCommittee on Oversight and Government ReformU.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, DC 20515Dear Mr. Chairman: I am writing to request that you invite Edward DeMarco, the Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), to testify at the Committee’s hearing on “Pay for Performance: Should Fannie and Freddie Executives Be Receiving Millions in Bonuses?,” which is scheduled for November 16, 2011. To date, you have invited Charles E. Haldeman, Jr. and Michael J. Williams, the CEOs of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, respectively. In your invitation letters, you explained that the hearing will examine “executive compensation approved by the Federal Housing Finance Agency for officers at the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac).” In order to properly examine these compensation packages, the Committee should hear from the official who approved them, Mr. DeMarco. In 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed into conservatorship under FHFA, after which Mr. DeMarco announced new executive compensation programs for top executives. In a press release issued on December 24, 2009, Mr. DeMarco noted that “it will be essential that that the Enterprises continue to perform their current role” and explained that executive compensation would consist of three elements: base salary, a performance-based incentive opportunity, and deferred salary. Although compensation levels were “down 40 percent from pre-conservatorship levels,” Mr. DeMarco justified the compensation packages by stating that Fannie and Freddie “must attract and retain the talent needed to accomplish these objectives.” In 2010, FHFA reportedly “approved $12.79 million in bonus pay” for ten Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives. Earlier this year, however, the FHFA Inspector General issued a report concluding that FHFA “lacks key controls necessary to monitor the Enterprises’ ongoing executive compensation decisions,” has not “developed written procedures to evaluate the Enterprises’ recommended compensation levels,” has not “required Agency staff to verify and test the means by which the Enterprises calculate their recommended compensation levels,” and “does not provide sufficient transparency to the public of the Enterprises’ executive compensation programs.” For these reasons, in addition to inviting Mr. DeMarco to testify, I request that you ask FHFA to produce to the Committee, by November 14, copies of all compensation packages for the top executives at FHFA, Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac.Without testimony from the head of the agency responsible for approving executive compensation at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and without copies of the compensation packages we are supposed to review at the hearing, the Committee’s oversight efforts will be inadequate and incomplete. Thank you for your consideration of these requests. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Ranking Member -30-
10.24.2011	Cummings Applauds Changes to the Home Affordable Refinance Program(Washington, DC) – Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement in response to changes announced today by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) to the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP). The changes are aimed at helping “underwater” homeowners take advantage of today’s record-low interest rates. “I commend the President for proposing this idea in his speech to Congress, and I thank Mr. DeMarco for listening to the concerns of Members and their constituents,” said Cummings. “The changes announced today will provide additional relief for middle-class Americans and an important boost for our economy. But we must not stop here. Economists warn that the housing crisis is ‘ground zero’ for the economy and jobs, and this is only one modest step towards addressing it.”In September, President Obama announced in his joint address to Congress that he would work with federal housing agencies to expand refinancing opportunities for homeowners who are current on their mortgages but are carrying above-market interest rates, and cannot refinance because they owe more on their mortgages than their homes are worth. Cummings spearheaded efforts to hold meetings between FHFA and Members of Congress to discuss steps to implement President Obama’s mortgage refinance proposal. After a meeting with FHFA officials on September 15, Cummings and more than two dozen Members requested a meeting with FHFA Acting Director Edward DeMarco directly, expressing “profound frustration with the apparent lack of urgency shown by your agency and by agencies within the Administration in addressing the foreclosure crisis.” Three weeks later, Cummings led a meeting with DeMarco and 16 other Members to discuss ways to implement the President’s proposal to help the greatest number of American families avoid foreclosure. When it became evident that DeMarco did not yet have a plan ready to share, Cummings asked him to return before the end of the month with a comprehensive proposal.-30-
10.18.2011	Cummings Commends FHFA Decision to Terminate Faulty Foreclosure Attorney Networks(Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, responded to an announcement by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) that it has instructed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to begin “transitioning away” from their use of designated foreclosure attorney networks to a system under which “mortgage servicers select qualified law firms that meet certain minimum, uniform criteria.”“Several of these law firms were able to engage in abusive and illegal behavior that violated the rights of borrowers, in part because of deficient oversight by FHFA, Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac,” said Cummings. “In light of the extensive problems recently documented by the FHFA Inspector General, I urged FHFA to seriously consider terminating these attorney networks, and it appears they are implementing my request.”“I remain concerned, however, that FHFA has not provided specific details about how mortgage servicers will select and oversee law firms to ensure that abusive behavior is prevented,” added Cummings. “I will continue my oversight efforts to ensure that specific measures are in place to require mortgage servicers to properly oversee the actions of law firms conducting foreclosure proceedings, including those involving mortgages owned or backed by the government sponsored enterprises.”On February 25, 2011, Ranking Member Cummings launched a major investigation into abuses and illegal activities by mortgage servicing companies, including wrongful foreclosures, inflated fees, and the filing of improperly executed legal documents during the foreclosure process. As part of that investigation, Cummings sent a letter asking the FHFA Inspector General to examine “widespread allegations of abuse by private attorneys and law firms hired to process foreclosures as part of the ‘Retained Attorney Network’ established by Fannie Mae.”On September 23, 2011, the FHFA Inspector General issued a report concluding that Fannie Mae and its regulators, including FHFA, were alerted repeatedly to serious problems with the legal firms in Fannie Mae’s retained attorney network (RAN) beginning as early as 2003, but failed to take corrective action. The Inspector General reported that “FHFA did not begin to act on foreclosure abuse issues involving Fannie Mae’s RAN until mid-2010,” despite “multiple indicators of foreclosure abuse risk prior to 2010 that could have led FHFA to identify and act earlier on the issue.”On October 3, 2011, Cummings sent a letter to FHFA Acting Director Edward DeMarco requesting additional documents and information regarding these oversight failures. Cummings requested that the agency “give serious consideration to terminating the existing Fannie Mae Retained Attorney Network program.” He also requested that “FHFA take immediate and decisive action to remedy these failures and ensure that no additional borrowers suffer similar abuses.”
10.07.2011	Cummings Lauds Extension in Freddie Mac Forbearance Period for Unemployed HomeownersVows to Continue Working on Behalf of American HomeownersWashington, DC – Today, Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings issued the following statement in response to a decision by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) to extend from three months to six months the forbearance period for unemployed homeowners with mortgages owned or guaranteed by Freddie Mac. “This partial extension is a good first step and will provide urgent relief to unemployed borrowers who are struggling to make their mortgage payments while they look for work,” said Cummings. “I continue to believe that the best option is a twelve month forbearance period, which has been put into place at other federal housing agencies, and I will continue working with FHFA toward this goal.” FHFA’s decision comes in response to an August 1 letter sent from Cummings to FHFA Oversight Board members proposing a twelve month forbearance period for unemployed homeowners with mortgages owned or guaranteed by either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Twenty-seven Members of Congress joined Cummings’s letter to Edward DeMarco, Acting Director of FHFA. In a September 27 response, DeMarco wrote, “We all share the goal of finding a path forward that leads to jobs for all those seeking employment and stability in our housing system.” As a result, he wrote, “I have concluded that a general program of six months forbearance is an appropriate balance.” FHFA’s decision means that both Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae will have six month forbearance periods. Cummings plans to meet personally with DeMarco next week to continue discussing this issue, as well as FHFA’s efforts to implement the President’s call to action to help responsible American homeowners refinance under today’s historically low interest rates.-30-
10.07.2011	Cummings Demands Change In Housing Policy To Improve Unemployment(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the Joint Economic Committee, released a statement today, following the September employment report released this morning by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).“I am happy to see that more than 100,000 Americans got back to work in September,” said Cummings. “I am also happy to see that BLS changed its estimates for August, indicating that more than 50,000 jobs were gained last month. However, this small growth is not enough to keep up with the number of people entering the workforce, and it certainly is not enough to grow our economy. 9.1 percent unemployment is still far, far too high.“This week, at a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and I spoke about the importance of the housing market to our overall economic recovery. Chairman Bernanke agreed that until we can make major changes in this vital sector of our nation’s economy, we will not see a robust and sustained economic recovery and we will not be able to free up the consumer spending and investment capital that will allow Americans to return to work. Until this happens, we will not be able to create the new products and innovations that will allow our next generation to thrive. We must act with the fierce urgency of now to fix our housing woes. For millions of our brothers and sisters whose homes have changed from their American Dream to a nightmare, change cannot wait one more day.” -30-
09.29.2011	Cummings Receives Medical Service Award(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, will be awarded the 15th Perry A. Lambird Award by COLA Inc. of Columbia, MD. COLA is a physician-directed organization whose purpose is to promote excellence in laboratory medicine and patient care through a program of voluntary education, consultation, and accreditation.Rep. Cummings will be the first person outside of the medical and laboratory community to receive the Lambird, the organization's highest award presented by COLA. He is being recognized for his efforts to improve laboratory medicine and patient care in Maryland and across the country. In 2004, Cummings helped launch a public awareness campaign after he learned about faulty laboratory tests at Maryland General Hospital in Baltimore. Cummings also introduced the Clinical Laboratory Compliance Improvement Act of 2005, which was not passed by Congress. The bill created whistleblower protections for employees who alert appropriate authorities about medical lab safety violations.Despite not being passed into law, the changes spearheaded by Congressman Cummings encouraged the creation of random testing by the College of American Pathologists, which continues to this day, ensuring that hospitals maintain constant readiness and hygiene standards.The Lambird award will be presented to Congressman Cummings at his office in Baltimore. -30-
09.15.2011	Cummings Lauds Short-Term Extension to Address Postal Service's Financial Challenges Continuing Resolution Includes Measure Similar to Cummings’s Bill to Allow Time to Develop Long-Term Solution(Washington, DC) – Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings today applauded a measure in the House Appropriations Fiscal Year 2012 Continuing Resolution (CR) that is similar to legislation he introduced to provide the U.S. Postal Service an extension on the payment it is statutorily required to make to prefund its retired employee health benefit fund. The CR extends by six weeks the date on which the Postal Service must make the payment, from September 30 to November 18. “I am encouraged that we were able to work in a bipartisan way to insert this short-term provision,” said Cummings. “This extension will ensure that Congress has time to work together and with stakeholders on a comprehensive plan to improve the Postal Service’s long-term viability.” Cummings, along with six other Members of Congress, introduced legislation last week that would postpone by 90 days the Postal Service’s $5.5 billion payment to the retiree health fund. This advance payment is required under the 2006 Postal Accountability Enhancement Act, which mandated that the Postal Service make accelerated annual payments to fully fund its anticipated retiree health care costs by 2016. “Now, Congress needs to work quickly and carefully to develop innovative ways to ensure the Postal Service can compete in our 21st century economy and provide services relevant in a changing market,” added Cummings.In the coming weeks, Cummings and other Members will introduce legislation to help the Postal Service return to profitability by adopting innovative solutions to increase revenue and cut costs. A variety of provisions are being considered, including measures to allow the Postal Service to enter into new lines of business, lease its properties, and right-size its workforce through retirement incentives. The legislation will also revise the current Postal Service retiree benefits payment schedule. The six-week extension included in the CR will not affect the health care provided to retirees and will not in any way disrupt the daily delivery of mail or the operations of post offices or mail processing facilities. It simply extends the due date for the prepayment while Congress and the Administration continue to consider broader reforms. -30-
09.15.2011	Cummings and Cardoza Meet With Housing RegulatorMembers meet with Federal Housing Finance Agency to discuss President Obama’s plan for home refinancing.(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Congressman Dennis Cardoza, Co-Chair of the Housing Stabilization Task Force, today were joined by 27 Members of Congress in a discussion session with staff members of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), discussing a plan presented by President Obama to allow more American families to refinance their mortgages at historically low interest rates.“Very simply, the President's plan is a game changer," said Cummings. "It is absolutely critical that the program discussed by President Obama in his speech to Congress be acted upon as efficiently and effectively as possible. Time is of the essence, and the urgency of moving forward cannot be overstated. That is why most of the President’s proposals are not new, but tried and tested. “The frustration felt by homeowners who continue to pay their mortgages, but who fall farther and farther behind continues to hamper our economic recovery. To make certain homeowners can protect their most important investment, we have instructed FHFA staff prepare procedures that will allow homeowners to take advantage of the President’s plan as quickly as possible.”Cummings and Cardoza made several specific requests of FHFA:1. FHFA should require Fannie and Freddie to implement the most expansive and least burdensome refinancing program to reach the greatest number of families in need.2. FHFA must hold banks accountable. Specifically, FHFA must require banks to inform borrowers if they are eligible to refinance, and require them to process their refinancing requests quickly. FHFA must also penalize servicers if they don’t comply. 3. FHFA must move aggressively to implement the President’s proposal by setting a timeline to achieve it. Cummings asked FHFA to come back and brief them on their status in two weeks. The Members committed to work closely with FHFA to ensure that progress is made quickly. They also requested that FHFA issue periodic updates to Congress, demonstrating their progress on these requests.There are currently more than 8 million homeowners whose mortgages are guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and that carry an interest rate at or above 6%, even though current 30-year mortgage rates are hovering at about 4.12%.Congressman Cummings has been a leader in foreclosure prevention, authoring legislation with Senator Jack Reed that would create a robust and meaningful foreclosure mitigation system by ending dual-tracking and other practices currently preventing borrowers from saving their homes. Last month, Cummings was joined by about 20 other Members in writing to the Administration to commend them for expanding current forbearance programs and urging FHFA to expand theirs as well.Finally, today’s discussion session was the result of a letter sent XXX to FHFA head Ed DeMarco, requesting such a meeting and a follow up letter sent XXX.-30-
09.15.2011	Cummings: "Nobody Interested in Protecting American Jobs Should Support this Bill"(Washington, DC) – Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings delivered the following statement today on H.R. 2587, legislation that would remove the only meaningful remedy available to workers if a company illegally outsources jobs overseas or moves operations out of state because workers engaged in activities protected under federal law. Below is Cummings’s statement as prepared for delivery. “Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 2587. The National Labor Relations Board exists to ensure that companies do not discriminate against workers who exercise their rights under federal law. That protection prevents the illegal off-shoring of American jobs. “In 2000, for example, a California jewelry manufacturing company took aggressive action to discourage its employees from organizing – a right that is protected under federal law. When the company failed, it announced plans to relocate its operations to Mexico. The Board was able to prevent this from happening. Using the authority this bill would eliminate, the Board prevented the company from moving American jobs to Mexico. If HR 2587 is enacted, companies will be able to ship jobs oversees in retaliation against American workers exercising their rights. “Unfortunately, H.R. 2587 is part of a larger campaign to attack workers’ rights. That campaign includes an investigation by the Oversight Committee into the Board’s ongoing prosecution of the Boeing Company for allegations of illegal retaliation against workers in Washington State for exercising their rights under the law.“A Washington Post editorial warned that the Committee should not “sabotage” this ongoing legal process. And 34 legal professors urged the Committee to let the Board ‘do its job without undue interference.’“Instead, the Committee issued a subpoena, threatened contempt, and even intimidated individual NLRB attorneys trying to do their jobs.“If H.R. 2587 becomes law, even if Boeing is found to have violated workers’ rights, no remedy will exist to restore those rights to the workers. “Nobody interested in protecting American jobs should support this bill. I urge my colleagues to vote against H.R. 2587.”-30-
09.13.2011	Cummings Joins Scott To Call for Passage of the CAMPUS Safety Act During National Campus Safety Awareness Month(Washington, DC) – As students across the nation begin another school year, Congressman Cummings will join Congressman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott at a press conference with campus safety advocates to call for passage of H.R. 2342, the CAMPUS Safety Act. The bill is timely because September is National Campus Safety Awareness Month.The CAMPUS Safety Act will create a National Center for Campus Public Safety (the "Center"), to be administered through the U.S. Department of Justice's Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. The Center will train campus public safety agencies, encourage research to strengthen college safety and security, and serve as a clearinghouse for the dissemination of relevant campus public safety information. Congressman Scott has introduced the CAMPUS Safety Act in the last three Congresses and it passed the House of Representatives overwhelmingly in the 110th and 111th Congresses.-30-
09.13.2011	UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:September 13, 2011 Ashley Etienne, 202-226-5181Cummings and Cardoza Lead Dozens of Members in Renewing Call for Meeting with Housing RegulatorMembers ramp up pressure on FHFA to implement President’s plan to boost economy by helping responsible homeowners refinance at historically low rates.(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Congressman Dennis Cardoza, Co-Chair of the Housing Stabilization Task Force, today were joined by 27 Members of Congress in sending a letter to Edward DeMarco, Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), renewing their request for a meeting to begin discussing a plan more American families refinance their mortgages at historically low interest rates.Cummings and Cardoza originally made the request in a previous letter last Friday, but FHFA officials declined the request, asserting that it would be premature to give Congress a “briefing” on their response to the President’s proposal.“Contrary to the assertion made by your Office of Congressional Affairs, the letter from Representatives Cummings and Cardoza did not request a ‘briefing,’” the Members wrote. “It requested a meeting that would enable us to begin a detailed dialogue about the process by which agency officials will ‘review, evaluate, and implement the President’s proposal.’”“Contrary to another assertion made by the Office of Congressional Affairs, this meeting would not be premature—if anything, it is overdue,” the letter stated. “On Friday, you issued a public statement in response to the President’s address indicating that your office has been ‘analyzing these issues’ and discussing them with ‘a range of stakeholders.’ As Members of Congress who have been tirelessly seeking to support renewed economic growth by stabilizing the housing market, we certainly deserve the same courtesy and consideration as other stakeholders in this process.”Today’s letter significantly increases the pressure on FHFA to act quickly on the President’s proposal, which is similar to bipartisan legislation introduced in the House and Senate that garnered widespread support from industry, investors, and consumer groups. According to Bill Gross, the Managing Director and co-CIO of the world’s largest bond fund, PIMCO, removing barriers to refinancing under this type of proposal could provide an economic stimulus of up to $50 or $60 billion.There are currently more than 8 million homeowners whose mortgages are guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and that carry an interest rate at or above 6%, even though current 30-year mortgage rates are hovering at about 4.12%.-30-
09.12.2011	Cummings Joins Members, Introducing Short-Term Measure to Help Postal Service While Congress Develops Long-Term Proposal to Return Postal Service to Profitability(Washington, DC) – Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings, joined by Representatives Norm Dicks, Ranking Member on the Appropriations Committee, Stephen F. Lynch, José Serrano, Gerald Connolly, Eleanor Holmes Norton and Danny K. Davis introduced legislation today to provide the U.S. Postal Service a 90-day extension on its pre-payment to the retired employee health benefit fund. “The Postal Service is one of our nation’s most trusted and reliable institutions,” said Cummings. “This short-term measure would give Congress an additional three months to consider ways to ensure that the Postal Service is profitable and competitive in the 21st century economy.”The bill would postpone by 90 days a $5.5 billion prepayment to the Postal Service’s retiree health benefits fund due September 30. This advance payment is required under the 2006 Postal Accountability Enhancement Act, which mandated that the Postal Service make accelerated annual payments to fully fund its anticipated retiree health care costs by 2016. This mandate is inconsistent with private sector policy, where companies typically prepay 70% to 80% of future retiree health care costs. The Postal Service has already paid more than $42 billion to the U.S. Treasury toward its employees’ future healthcare costs. “The truth is that the Postal Service is facing its financial challenges today in part because Congress changed the law in 2006, in a way that places extremely burdensome pre-funded health care requirements on the USPS that no other agency or organization must meet,” said Representative Lynch. “This measure will ensure that the Postal Service and Congress have additional time to work together on comprehensive legislation to improve the Postal Service’s long-term viability.” Temporarily suspending this prepayment will not affect the health care provided to retirees and will not in any way disrupt the daily delivery of mail or the operations of post offices or mail processing facilities. It would simply extend by three months the due date for the prepayment while Congress and the Administration continue to consider broader reforms. Given time constraints in considering the legislation as a stand alone bill, the forthcoming continuing resolution also offers a suitable option for moving this legislation forward. In the coming weeks, Cummings and other Members will introduce legislation to help the Postal Service return to profitability through innovative solutions designed to increase revenue and cut costs. A variety of provisions are being considered, including measures to allow the Postal Service to enter into new lines of business, lease its properties, revise the current Postal Service retiree benefits payment schedules, and right-size its workforce. On September 6, Cummings and Lynch sent a letter to Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe strongly opposing proposals to abrogate provisions of collective bargaining agreements with unions representing Postal Service employees, which have already made significant pay and benefits concessions.
09.10.2011	Cummings Remembers 9/11 Attacks(Baltimore, MD) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, released the following statement on the 10th anniversary of the deadly terrorist attacks on the United States that occurred on September 11, 2001. “Today is a solemn day,” said Cummings. “It is a day to be treated with remembrance, reverence and resolve. “Today, I hope all Marylanders will join me in taking time to remember the thousands of our American brothers and sisters who perished in the attacks on Washington, New York and Pennsylvania on that terrible day a decade ago. It seems like only yesterday that we saw the staggering images of the stricken towers on our television screens. We watched in stunned, often mute horror as those towers fell, as the Pentagon was struck and as the heroes of Flight 93 fell to their final resting place. “This day must also be treated with reverence, both for the memory of those whom we have lost and for those overseas fighting to protect our freedoms. Since September 11, 2001, we have lost thousands of American men and women in Iraq and Afghanistan, while thousands more remain in those two war-torn nations. Their sacrifices must not be forgotten on this sacred day.“Finally, we must reassert our resolve, that this nation will never allow itself to become a victim of terror. While we may suffer losses in our fight to rid the world of political terrorism, we will never falter and allow the principles that have guided the United States since our founding to be compromised or damaged. We must continue to hold self-evident that all people on this Earth are created equal, and that we are a nation that strives to protect the rights of all to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.“I pray that our country will never suffer such a tragic day again. However, I urge all Marylanders, in our time of silent reflection on this day, to believe in their hearts that, through any possible strife or struggle, our nation and our beliefs will endure.” -30-
09.09.2011	Cummings Calls On FHFA to Meet With Members on Implementing President’s Plan To Lower Mortgage Costs Ranking Member requests conservator for Fannie and Freddie begin consideration of President Obama’s refinancing plan(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Congressman Dennis Cardoza, Co-Chair of the Housing Stabilization Task Force, today sent a letter to Edward DeMarco, Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, requesting a meeting with Members of Congress to discuss the President’s proposal to help more Americans refinance their mortgages at lower rates.“According to various estimates, the President’s proposal has the potential to grow the economy by one to three percent in 2012, create more than million jobs, and significantly lower the unemployment rate,” wrote Cardoza and Cummings. “A key part of the President’s proposal is to help American families avoid foreclosures by assisting them in refinancing their mortgages at lower interest rates. This proposal would help not only these families, but their communities, investors, and American taxpayers.”There are currently more than 8 million homeowners whose mortgages are guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and which carry an interest rate at or above 6%, even though current 30-year mortgage rates are hovering at about 4.12%.The Congressmen asked the agency to “make key agency officials available next week for a meeting with Members to begin discussing a plan to review, evaluate, and implement the proposal made by the President last night to help more American families refinance their mortgages at historically low interest rates.”The President’s proposal is similar to bipartisan legislation that has garnered widespread support from industry, investors, and consumer groups.Congressman Cummings has long been a leader in the fight to keep American families in their homes. Last month, he joined 27 other Members of Congress in urging the Obama Administration to expand to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Veterans Affairs the 12-month forbearance program that was announced for unemployed Federal Housing Administration borrowers. Congressman Cardoza’s bill, the Housing Opportunity and Mortgage Equity (HOME) Act, H.R. 363, would allow as many as 30 million homeowners with mortgages backed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to benefit from the current very low market interest rates and refinance for up to 40 years at a fixed single-digit rate.-30-
09.08.2011	Cummings: President’s Vision Will Move Our Nation Forward, Stabilize EconomyRanking Member Calls on Congress to Put Aside Political Gamesmanship, and Strike Bipartisan Compromise (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement in response to President Obama’s speech on the American Jobs Act. “Tonight, President Obama presented a bold vision for our nation’s economy and a blueprint to get Americans back to work,” said Cummings. “Congress should carefully consider the President’s proposal and act to pass it immediately. “Would I like even more, yes. But am I happy with this proposal, absolutely. “America faces not just one economic problem, but systemic woes. We must take a comprehensive approach to fixing our entire economy while we grow jobs. The President’s plan does just that. Instead of investing in millionaires and billionaires through tax cuts, the President's plan would invest in our nation and our workers by building roads, bridges and schools, and keeping teachers in our classrooms. “In Baltimore, and across the country, the housing crisis is creating a severe drain on our economy and has crippled our economic recovery. Millions of foreclosures combined with devastating drops in housing prices have destroyed the largest investment many Americans will ever make. I was very pleased that President Obama laid out a plan that will help Americans stay in their homes by enabling them to refinance their mortgages at lower rates. This is an important first step in what must be a concerted effort to stabilize our housing market. “The onus is now on Congress to act. I agree with the President that enough is enough with the political gamesmanship. It's going to take real bipartisanship to get our nation's fiscal house in order and to put people back to work again. I, along with my Democratic colleagues, stand ready to work with Republicans to ensure we get moving.”
09.08.2011	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, discussed what he would like to see addressed in President Obama’s speech introducing the American Jobs Act: “President Obama’s plan must be bold and sweeping to put our nation back to work,” said Cummings. “We must take decisive action to restore consumer confidence and set our economy on a long-term path toward recovery. “The President’s plan must include initiatives that will strengthen our national infrastructure, address the housing crisis, create critical jobs programs for our struggling young Americans, and provide assistance for local and state governments so they can keep teachers in classrooms and cops on the beat. Main Street deserves the same assistance that we gave Wall Street, so we must also continue to provide tax cuts for American workers who are struggling daily to make ends meet. “Now is the time for President Obama to lay out a vision that inspires America. He must restore hope and faith in American innovation and prosperity, both for today and for generations yet unborn. “At the close of President Obama’s speech, the onus will fall on Congress to act. We must leave our political hats at the door and push to get Americans back to work. Speaker Boehner and the Republican leadership have signaled that they are willing to work with the President and Democrats in Congress to create jobs. We must hold them to their word.”
09.06.2011	Cummings Reminds Maryland Residents: Emergency Mortgage Assistance Applications Due By Sept. 16th(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today reminded Maryland residents that the deadline for applying to the Emergency Mortgage Assistance (EMA) Grant Program is September 16th. All completed EMA applications must be received by the Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development prior to 4:00 PM on September 16, 2011.Congressman Cummings championed the creation of the EMA “bridge loan” program to assist unemployed homeowners, which was ultimately included in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Legislation. The program provides a maximum of $50,000 to assist in the payment of up to 12 months of arrears, including delinquent taxes and insurance, and will cover such costs up to 24 months going forward from the date of the approval of the loan. “These loans can provide a crucial bridge for many homeowners, during this economic storm as they pass through a period of unemployment,” said Cummings. “Though not nearly enough action has been taken by Congress to keep Americans in their homes, this is one program, that will help do exactly that. I urge all homeowners who believe they may be eligible for the EMA program to apply as quickly as possible, to help save their greatest investment.”The Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development, which administers the program advises that EMA is a first-come, first-served program. Only complete applications with full documentation will be considered. Submitting an application does not guarantee participation in the program. All EMA loans are contingent upon availability of funds and underwriting approval based on EMA program requirements. Additionally, loan commitments depend on receiving reinstatement figures from the lender/servicer.-30-
08.29.2011	Cummings’ Affordable Care Act Briefing Shows The Future Of Healthcare in Maryland (Washington, DC) -- Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, hosted a briefing at the University of Maryland’s BioPark today, discussing the importance of the changes, including service improvements and new insurance options, created by the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “So many changes for the better have been created by the Affordable Care Act, I believe it is critical that we have constant meetings with stakeholders and citizens, to inform them of the improvements in the upgrades to our national healthcare,” said Cummings. “This meeting, and those to follow, are the means we have to show Americans what can be done when we work together to lower health costs, improve outcomes and make our healthcare system more efficient and effective.” Federal Health and Human Services Regional Director Joanne Corte Grossi represented that agency at the event, answering the questions of dozens of healthcare provides who attended. “Here in Baltimore and across the country, the Affordable Care Act is already making a difference in people’s lives, helping families get care, helping businesses compete and strengthening Medicare and our health care system for the future,” said Grossi. The University of Maryland was proud to host the event at their BioPark, a biomedical research park on the academic medical center campus of the University of Maryland, Baltimore (UMB). Its community of life science companies and academic research centers are commercializing new drugs, diagnostics and devices and advancing biomedical research. “The passage of health care reform provides an unprecedented opportunity to change the face of health care delivery,” said Dr. Jay A. Perman, President of the University. “We are very pleased that the legislation included prevention and public health programs; initiatives designed to reduce racial and ethnic disparities; workforce development strategies; changes in long-term care and payment reform. The University has been very engaged with the Governor’s Health Care Reform Coordinating Council to develop a blueprint and we look forward to working with the Governor and the Secretary of Health on implementation in Maryland.” Implementing changes made by the ACA at a state level is important as well, and will require coordination from state agencies. “The Affordable Care Act provides a terrific set of tools for states to improve access, control costs, and enhance the quality of care," said Dr. Joshua M. Sharfstein, Secretary of the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene in Maryland. "We are moving forward to use these tools effectively in Maryland." Finally, insurance providers will have a huge role to play as well, as more than 30 million Americans are able to buy insurance policies they otherwise would have been unable to acquire. “The Maryland Health Insurance Plan is proud to play a prominent role in Maryland's health care reform,” said Kent McKinney, Executive Director of Maryland Health Insurance Plan. “In 2011, MHIP added new benefit designs in order to meet the needs of Maryland's high risk population.” -30-
08.14.2011	Cummings Mourns Loss Of Maryland Soldier(Baltimore, MD) -- Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today released a statement following the death of Baltimore native, Army Specialist Jameel T. Freeman. Spc. Freeman and several others were killed by a roadside bomb in Afghanistan. He was 26.“My thoughts and prayers are with Specialist Freeman’s family today in this time of crushing loss,” said Cummings. “Jameel made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation. His loss demonstrates why the military of our nation have our undying devotion and respect. I pray for his loved ones, and I ask that every person in Maryland, who Specialist Freeman 1,350 U.S. troops have been killed in action in Afghanistan during Operation Enduring Freedom. -30-
08.11.2011	Cummings Applauds House Democratic Appointments To Select CommitteeCongressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, released a statement today, following the selection of Reps. James Clyburn of South Carolina, Chris Van Hollen of Maryland and Xavier Becerra of California, who will serve on the Joint Select Committee that will suggest $1.8 trillion in budget savings over the next ten years.“Minority Leader Pelosi has made wise choices in her selection for the ‘Supercongress,’” said Cummings. “Along with their work in our party’s leadership, Congressmen Clyburn and Van Hollen have done outstanding work defending the priorities of American workers and the middle class on the Budget Committee. At the same time, Congressman Becerra will bring invaluable experience and knowledge of our tax structure from his service on the Committee on Ways and Means. This combined experience will be critical as the Select Committee examines ways the United States can balance spending and revenues in an effort to bring down our deficit, while spurring economic growth. “I also trust that all three men will understand the concerns my constituents have that we seek shared sacrifice as we grow American jobs, return our nation to economic stability, and protect the programs helping those who have already been so financially devastated. While it is important that we be fiscally responsible, we must also be morally upstanding, thus we must protect Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. They are the promises from our society that we will not let any of our brothers and sisters be pushed to the margins of our nation. I know that Congressmen Becerra, Van Hollen and Clyburn understand all of these concerns, and will protect those programs while fighting to get Americans back to work.” -30-
08.09.2011	Cummings: HGH Testing Instituted By NFL “A Significant And Welcome Step Forward”Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, released a statement today, following the change in drug testing policy by the National Football League (NFL). Cummings played a major role in the Committee’s investigation of performance-enhancing steroids in baseball during the last decade.“I applaud the NFL and the NFLPA for agreeing to a new league-wide drug policy that includes testing for human growth hormone (HGH),” said Cummings. “As the first major American professional sports league to implement HGH-testing, the NFL is keeping pace with science and is breaking ground in sports.“The NFL’s new drug program will help to ensure a drug-free league, which is vital to preserving the integrity of the game, the health of players and the trust of fans like me. It also sets the right example for young people, so many of whom look up to and emulate professional athletes in all sports. This is a significant and welcome step forward in the ongoing campaign to keep sports clean, fair and drug-free and I look forward to the immediate implementation of this policy.” Rep. Cummings also helped to establish “Powered by ME!,” a Baltimore-area program to encourage young athletes to avoid performance-enhancing drugs and to play safe, fair and sober. NFL Commissioner Goodell was a special guest speaker at a Powered by ME! assembly of more than 500 student athletes at Woodlawn High School in Gwynn Oak, Maryland earlier this year.-30-
08.06.2011	Cummings Mourns The Sacrifice Of Military Servicemembers Killed In AfghanistanCongressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today released a statement following the death of 31 American military personnel in Afghanistan.“Today, we received a tragic reminder of the sacrifice our military forces give when called upon to protect our nation,” said Cummings. “We saw this incredible Special Forces unit go into harm’s way to kill the terrorist mastermind who attacked our nation. Now, they have been visited by a tragedy as great in significance as that victory. We mourn the loss of these 31 brave Americans who were willing to step forward when called by their nation, to take up the most difficult missions in which our military engages. They will never be forgotten. I pray for peace for their families and loved ones, and offer my condolences for their loss. While I understand from my own recent tragedy that nothing will bring back those who they cherished, it is my hope that the thanks of a grateful nation can ease the pain of their loss, if only slightly.”-30-
08.05.2011	Cummings Pleased With Decrease In Unemployment(Baltimore, MD) -- Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and Member of the Joint Economic Committee, today released this statement, following the monthly report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, indicating that the U.S. had added 117,000 jobs in July:“Americans are getting a chance to go back to work, and that is one thing we must praise,” said Cummings. “The American people want to work, they want to excel, they want to innovate, and the fewer people on the sidelines, the better it is for our nation. However, we have not added enough jobs this month, nor have we in past months. We must continue to do better. I hope, now that the debt limit crisis has been resolved, that the United States Congress will put every ounce of partisanship aside and concentrate on jobs. Everything we do in the coming weeks and months must be with one premise in mind: putting Americans back to work, so our economy can recover.“There are tremendous ideas on the horizon, that we must have the courage to execute. President Obama has suggested creating a public-private infrastructure bank, to create jobs while also improving our country’s ability to compete in the global marketplace. America must also focus on creating the jobs of the 21st Century, rather than looking wistfully back at our past. Through a focus on “green jobs,” the United States has moved from having just two percent of the world’s production of advanced hybrid car batteries toward turning out more than 40 percent of these critical pieces to our energy future. We must continue this innovation and we must make it easier for American inventors to bring their products to market by working with President Obama to reform our patent system and streamline regulations.Finally, if we are to allow the small business engine of our nation to effectively and efficiently create jobs, we must remove tax loopholes and subsidies that allow big corporations to outpace them. No government should allow tax policy to increase the financial advantage that large companies already have over their smaller competitors. Removing the tricks that allow multi-national corporations to pay no American taxes will make it easier to lower business taxes across the board, helping American employers hire more Americans; a rising tide, lifting all of our boats.”-30-
08.03.2011	Cummings Calls On President Obama To Protect HomeownersCongressman, more than two dozen Members urge forbearance expansionCongressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, in letters co-signed by 27 Members of Congress, wrote to President Obama, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) urging the Administration to expand protections for struggling homeowners.Last month, the Administration announced that it was extending to 12 months the forbearance period for unemployed homeowners with mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or serviced by mortgage servicers participating in the Making Home Affordable (MHA) program. Cummings’ letters commended the Administration for these actions and asked that this extended forbearance period also be applied to homeowners with mortgages owned or insured by other agencies and entities across the federal government, including FHFA and VA.“The Administration took a positive step, but we can do better,” said Cummings. “We can give those who have lost their jobs a fighting chance to get back to work without losing their homes.”The letter to President Obama states, “As you know, our country is facing a foreclosure crisis that was triggered by toxic loan products and artificially inflated home prices, and is now being driven by job losses and wage reductions.” The letter adds, “Thus, we believe an extended forbearance option should be expanded to all federal agencies that own or insure housing loans. FHA-insured loans comprise approximately 14% of the housing market, while Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own or guarantee approximately half of existing mortgages. In addition, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) also owns or insures a small percentage of mortgages across the country… We believe that Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the VA should put in place the same twelve-month forbearance period adopted by FHA.”Earlier this year, U.S. Housing and Urban Development Department Secretary Shaun Donovan said, “The current unemployment forbearance programs have mandatory periods that are inadequate for the majority of unemployed borrowers.” -30-
08.01.2011	Cummings Votes No: “The Wrong Solution At The Wrong Time”(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today voted “no” on the debt limit increase bill brought before the House of Representatives.“I voted against this bill because it is the wrong solution, at the wrong time,” said Cummings. “This bill will take critical money out of education, infrastructure and other crucial programs in the midst of what remains a fragile recovery. I am pleased that we will avoid destroying our credit rating by avoiding a default on our obligations. However, at a time when unemployment rates remain unacceptably high, this bill does nothing to encourage hiring and is, in fact, likely to cost many Americans their jobs. “Today, Congress is doing our job, we are paying our bills. Unlike previous increases in the debt ceiling, however, the divisiveness surrounding this debate forced cuts in government programs essential to keeping Americans in their homes, educating our children, and meeting the needs of the most vulnerable among us. Along with all the Members of this House, I understand we must lower our deficits and work to pay off our debts. I also see a country in pain, a people in trouble and my brothers and sisters struggling, just to get by, in a way I have never seen before. “Millions of Americans are losing their homes, millions more are without work, and many have been crushed by the largest transfer of wealth we have ever seen, and have now joined the ranks of the working poor. We cannot balance improving our country on the backs of everyday Americans who have already been hit so hard. This must be a shared sacrifice that sees a balanced approach to fiscal control, including increasing our record-low Federal revenues. With this bill, we have missed the opportunity to address these issues head on and to truly improve this nation while maintaining our promises to seniors and those less fortunate.”“In the coming weeks and months, I hope that we can get past ideological extremes as we continue to discuss how best to prepare for the future. I will continue to do everything in my power to support the President in his efforts to create jobs and I will continue fighting to protect our social safety net that keeps so many Americans afloat. America has made a promise to our retirees on Social Security and Medicare, and those lower-income Americans who rely on Medicaid to obtain the care they need. I will not allow that promise to be broken.” The bill passed the House 269-161 and moved to the Senate for final passage.-30-
07.30.2011	Cummings Honors Medicare’s 46th AnniversaryInsurance program has allowed senior poverty to be cut by 75 percent.(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today recognized the 46th anniversary of the signing into law of Medicare. On July 30th, 1965, President Lyndon Johnson signed the bill that granted healthcare coverage to almost every senior citizen in the United States.Prior to the passage of Medicare, less than half of Americans over the age of 64 had medical insurance coverage. Today, nearly all seniors are covered by Medicare. Because of this coverage, the level of seniors in poverty has gone from 30 percent in 1965 to less than eight percent today.“Medicare is not just policy, it is a promise,” said Cummings. “It is a promise to our mothers and our fathers that we, as a nation, understand the sacrifices they made in raising the next generation and in creating the infrastructure and education necessary to build that generation into a strong, robust American society. It is our promise that, in honor of those sacrifices, we will not allow their golden years to be fraught with the fear and uncertainty that comes when you don’t know if you should buy your medicine or pay your rent. I am committed to Medicare, and to the promise it provides our people.“This is a particularly appropriate time to recognize the unbelievable success that Medicare has been. Since its inception, it has been a shining beacon of what we can do as a people when we all pull together for the common good. Because Medicare has been such a staggeringly successful program, I am disappointed that some of my colleagues in the House of Representatives have sought to end Medicare as we know it. I will commit to those benefitting from Medicare, and to those who will reap its rewards in the future: I will not allow anyone to hollow the promise we have made to you and to each other. I promise to protect Medicare as long as I serve in this office.”-30-
07.29.2011	Cummings: Now Is The Time For Compromise(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, released a statement Friday afternoon, following the passage of the John Boehner-authored short-term debt limit increase:“Now is the time to do what is best for America,” said Cummings. “We must practice the art of politics, which is to say the art of compromise. Democrats in the Senate have said that the Boehner bill is dead on arrival. It would create another crisis in six months while practically mandating cuts in Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Those cuts would be absolutely unacceptable. Once the Senate defeats this bill, we must come together as a body to get the job done. “We must raise this nation’s debt ceiling, and it must be done for such a time that our credit rating is not lowered because of uncertainty in the marketplace. Senator Reid has crafted a bill with cuts that I do not agree with, but which I understand. That bill contains no revenue increases, which is a compromise Democrats are willing to make to bring Republicans on board. It will likely receive bipartisan passage in the Senate. When it arrives in the House, we must immediately allow the Reid bill an up-or-down vote, pass it and allow the President to sign it. This will put our nation back on a solid economic footing, and help keep our credit rating at AAA. I urge the Senate and the House to act quickly and prudently on this critical piece of legislation.”Congressman Cummings voted no on the Boehner measure, which passed the House 218-208.-30-
07.27.2011	Cummings Applauds Justice Suit Against Wells FargoCongressman requested action in 2010 letter.(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today applauded reports that the Department of Justice intends to file suit against Wells Fargo for allegedly preying upon African American borrowers during the real-estate boom that preceded the 2007 economic downturn, inappropriately steering these borrowers into high-cost subprime loans.Last week, the Federal Reserve System said that perhaps more than 10,000 borrowers were inappropriately steered into subprime mortgage loans or had their loan documents falsified by bank personnel. Wells Fargo agreed to pay $85 million to settle civil charges brought by the Fed. The company did not admit wrongdoing.“It is my greatest hope that this suit will bring the justice that has been too late in arriving,” said Cummings. “So many homeowners who qualified for standard mortgages were improperly directed into subprime mortgages, and in no community was that more prevalent than the African American community. This predatory and illegal activity must be punished, to the full extent of the law, to ensure that the trust placed in our nation’s lenders and banks is never again violated by those businesses.”In a January 2010 letter to the Justice Department, praising the creation of the Fair Lending Unit (FLU), Cummings specifically requested answers regarding actions by Wells Fargo. The FLU was tasked with pursuing lenders and brokers that have unfairly denied minorities access to home loans. It also identifies companies that targeted minorities for mortgages with loose underwriting standards or high interest rates that forced borrowers into foreclosure.In his letter, Cummings asked that the unit answer several questions regarding Wells Fargo and other lenders:1. Was there a systematic effort by any mortgage lender to drive minority borrowers into high-cost mortgage loans?2. To what extent were any borrowers who were eligible for lower-cost products targeted for high-cost products? 3. To what extent do the practices observed in Baltimore mirror or deviate from practices observed in other urban areas?The allegations by the Justice Department mirror those in public actions taken by the Federal Reserve and a separate lawsuit filed by the City of Baltimore.The Mayor and City Council of Baltimore brought suit against Wells Fargo Bank in January 2008 under the Fair Housing Act, alleging that Wells Fargo targeted African American neighborhoods in Baltimore for predatory mortgage loans. The City contended that Wells Fargo utilized “reverse redlining” practices, driving potential homebuyers in minority communities into high-cost mortgage products. The allegations referenced affidavits of former Wells Fargo employees, describing incentive programs that offered rewards based on the interest rate for each loan originated.-30-
07.26.2011	Cummings Introduces Witness Protection BillBill to help States protect violent crime witnesses, authored by Cummings, passed the House in 111th Congress.(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today introduced the Witness Security and Protection Grant Program Act of 2011, H.R. 2647. The bill, which was authored by Cummings, would authorize the Attorney General to award grants to state and local governments to fund programs to protect witnesses in court proceedings involving homicide, serious felonies, or serious drug offenses. The grants would pay for short-term and permanent witness relocation, financial and housing assistance, development of best practice models for witness protection and other necessary services. “After my own family tragedy earlier this year, I am anxious to see this law passed by both houses of Congress and signed by President Obama,” said Cummings. “There is a culture in many of the areas that are beset by violent crime that “snitching” is dishonorable. Nothing could be further from the truth. We must have the ability to protect those who are willing to make their communities safer by reporting crimes and helping bring those who commit crimes to justice. Without the cooperation of the public, it is impossible for law enforcement to effectively do its job. This bill will go a long way toward protecting witnesses so that they might provide that essential cooperation.”H.R. 2647 is similar to H.R. 1741, a bill introduced by Cummings in the 111th Congress. That bill passed the House last year before being blocked in the Senate. The previous bill had the support of the State’s Attorney for Baltimore City, Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley, The Maryland Sheriff’s Association, the National Center for Victims of Crime, the Maryland Crime Victims Resource Center, the National Crime Victims Law Institute, the National Organization for Victim Assistance and the National District Attorneys Association.-30-
07.22.2011	Cummings Disappointed In Failure To Reauthorize FAAAirport improvement, other infrastructure programs will suffer due to shutdown.(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, today released the following statement, regarding the shutdown of the Federal Aviation Administration: “Congressional leadership has very simply failed the American people,” said Cummings. “By making last minute changes to legislation to extend the program – legislation that had passed the House on multiple previous occasions -- the leadership destroyed the opportunity to keep this critical agency working. Because of their failure to govern, the Airport Improvement Program so crucial to rebuilding our national airport infrastructure is shut down, thousands of employees will go without paychecks, grants will stop being issued, and millions of taxpayer dollars will be wasted through this shutdown.“While this Congress has failed our citizens, I do want to assure them that critical programs, like air traffic controllers and aircraft inspectors, will be on the job. The last-minute politics being played with the FAA will also not diminish Americans security in air travel. However, I urge both the House and Senate to name conferees immediately so that we can work out a final bill and allow the FAA to get back to work.”-30-
07.19.2011	Report Shows Coast Guard Civil Rights Directorate Not on Track(WASHINGTON) – The Government Accountability Office released a report on the shortcomings of the Civil Rights Directorate in the United States Coast Guard (USCG), entitled Coast Guard - Civil Rights Directorate Can Enhance Workforce Restructuring Efforts (GAO-11-718). The report, requested by leaders of the House Transportation & Infrastructure and Homeland Security Committees, shows that despite independent studies and reports from the GAO, the USCG’s Civil Rights Directorate is understaffed and lacks strategic direction.The GAO found:• The Civil Rights Directorate serves 50,000 active duty military and 8,000 civilian employees in the USCG but, in 2008, only had 41 non-dedicated staffers (Civil Rights Service Providers).• An independent study conducted in 2009 found that the Directorate needed 37 more Civil Rights Service Providers, a plan to allocate them geographically based on need, and establish them as dedicated staff.• As of April 2011, the Directorate only had 45 Civil Rights Service Provider positions (with 5 vacancies) and many regional Civil Rights Service Providers worked on casework on an as-needed basis. It also had no detailed strategic plan for staffing.• The Directorate has failed to document that Civil Rights Service Providers are properly trained.Congressman Bennie G. Thompson (D-MD), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement with the release of the report.“Several sources have highlighted multiple staffing problems at the Coast Guard Civil Rights Directorate. The Civil Rights Directorate has had two years to correct these problems, yet it has not made sufficient or identifiable progress. Clearly, the Coast Guard must put greater effort into creating a more robust Civil Rights Directorate with dedicated, well-trained staff in order for it to have the institutional knowledge and manpower to serve its workforce.”Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, added the following statement:“In early 2009, as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, I convened a series of hearings to examine the provision of civil rights services to the Coast Guard’s officers, members, and civilian employees following the release of a scathing Booz|Allen|Hamilton report. While the Coast Guard has made significant progress over the past two years in improving its civil rights services, I am troubled that it has apparently not yet developed a clear, transparent, and strategic rationale to guide all of the changes it is making – including personnel staffing decisions – to ensure that they support the creation of a model civil rights program. I hope that the Coast Guard will utilize this current study to redouble its effort to ensure that every Coast Guard service member and civilian employee has access to civil rights services that meet the highest quality standards.”Congressman Rick Larsen (D-WA), Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure’s Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the following statement:“I am pleased to see that the Coast Guard is making progress, however as the report clearly demonstrates, the Coast Guard needs to take additional steps to ensure that the civil rights directorate adequately serves its clientele. In my position as the ranking Democrat on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, I will be closely monitoring the service’s actions in protecting the rights of those who serve.” Link to Report-30-
07.15.2011	Cummings Calls On LaHood To Explain SPR-Related Jones Act WaiversLetter to DOT Secretary asks for data on waivers that have been issued since President Obama opened SPR.Washington, DC – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today wrote a letter to Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, calling for an accounting of Jones Act waivers granted to allow non-Jones Act qualified ships to carry oil released from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR).The Jones Act mandates that shipping traffic between American ports be conducted by American crews on American-owned and built ships. Waivers are granted to allow for voyages that would otherwise have to be conducted on Jones Act-qualified vessels to be conducted by foreign vessels in the interest of national defense.Congressman Cummings wrote Secretary LaHood to request that he, “explain the analysis that has been conducted to determine that such waivers are necessary to support the national defense. Further, [Cummings requested] that you identify the waivers that have been granted to date, the specific reason(s) each waiver was granted and the amount of oil that was allowed to move under each waiver.”Cummings also requested the analysis conducted by the Maritime Administration assessing the availability of Jones Act-compliant vessels, prior to the issuance of a waiver.“The Jones Act was created to make certain that Americans are plying the waters between our cities,” said Cummings. “These men and women are essential components of the transportation backbone of our country and they deserve to know that the Jones Act is being enforced. I want to ensure that any waiver of the Jones Act is issued only to meet critical national defense needs, not simply for convenience.”A recent report showed that in 2006, the Jones Act fleet supported nearly 74,000 jobs in the U.S., creating $36 billion in economic output and $6.5 billion in labor costs.-30-
07.13.2011	Cummings Issues Report on FCIC, Chairman Issa Cancels HearingWashington, DC – Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings issued a forty-page investigative report today regarding the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission (FCIC). Chairman Issa launched an investigation into the activities of the FCIC a year ago, alleging improprieties by the Democratic Commissioners and staff, including “conflicts of interest,” and “extensive ties” to “partisan Democratic politics.” Cummings’s report, which is based on 400,000 internal Commission emails, memos and other documents, finds that Chairman Issa’s allegations are largely unsubstantiated. In contrast, the documents suggest that Republican Commissioners geared their efforts on the Commission toward helping House Republicans in their campaign to repeal the Dodd-Frank Act, rather than determining the facts that led to the economic crisis. The report also raises a host of new ethical questions about Republican Commissioners and staff, including evidence that they leaked confidential information to outside parties on multiple occasions. Based on these documents, Ranking Member Cummings requested bipartisan interviews with Commissioners Bill Thomas and Peter Wallison to further investigate these issues in advance of today’s hearing. Chairman Issa declined these requests. Instead, he announced late on Monday that today’s hearing on the FCIC was postponed indefinitely. -30-
07.11.2011	Cummings Applauds New Reporting Measure to Combat Illegal Gun Trafficking Washington, DC – Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings issued the following statement in response to Department of Justice’s announcement of the new reporting measure for multiple sales of semi-automatic rifles in select states along the border. “This is exactly what ATF agents on the ground told Congress -- that reporting multiple sales of military-grade assault weapons is a crucial tool to identify and disrupt Mexican drug cartels engaged in gun trafficking. I strongly support ATF’s action, and I plan to introduce legislation with Rep. Maloney to establish a dedicated firearms trafficking statute to provide law enforcement with an additional tool to combat gun traffickers. Congress needs to step up to the plate and empower our law enforcement agents with the tools they need to keep guns out of the hands of dangerous criminals, protect communities on both sides of the border, and to ensure that they are not outgunned. Cummings issued an investigative report on June 29 that recommended ATF collect reports of multiple long gun sales based on testimony received from both U.S. and Mexican law enforcement officials.
06.22.2011	Cummings Applauds Expanding Diversity at Coast Guard Academy(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and former Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, today expressed his support and approval of the continued gains in diversity made at the United States Coast Guard Academy.As Subcommittee Chairman, Cummings convened a series of hearings regarding civil rights programs and diversity initiatives in the United States Coast Guard. During these hearings, the Subcommittee examined a report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) concerning changes made by the Coast Guard’s Civil Rights Directorate. The Subcommittee also examined diversity at the Coast Guard Academy.This year, according to the Coast Guard, 290 young men and women are expected to accept appointments to the Coast Guard Academy and report in on June 27, of whom 34% are Under-Represented Minorities (URM) and 34% are women. Under-Represented Minorities comprised 24% of last year’s incoming Class of 2014, an increase from the Class of 2013 (which was comprised of 16% Under-Represented Minorities) and the Class of 2012 (which was comprised of 12% Under-Represented Minorities).Increased efforts to promote the diversity at the Academy, through outreach and recruiting efforts, have produced a three-fold increase in URM accessions in a span of just three years.“Teddy Roosevelt once said, ‘Nothing in the world is worth having or worth doing unless it means effort,’” said Cummings. “The improvements in diversity at the Coast Guard Academy are not just showpieces for a quick improvement. They are long-lasting results that have been achieved by hard work and expanded outreach to communities across our nation. They will change the future of the service that is the tip of the spear of our homeland defense, making it more agile, more representative of our nation’s diversity, and more prepared for an uncertain future. I commend the United States Coast Guard on their efforts and I look forward to seeing the Class of 2015 matriculate through the Academy and move on to serve our nation.”The Coast Guard also noted that diversity has not been created at the expense of admission standards. The overall “Academic Strength” of the Academy’s incoming class continues to increase and the SAT Average rose from 1300 (Class of 2014) to 1330 (Class of 2015). This academically stronger applicant pool also produced 55% more URM finalists compared to the Class of 2014 and a 154% increase compared to the Class of 2012.-30-
06.21.2011	Cummings Applauds Baltimore Labor Grant$1.4 million will provide opportunities to move juvenile offenders back into society(Baltimore, MD) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today praised the United States Department of Labor for its approval of a $1.462 million grant for the City of Baltimore, be used for community service opportunities; educational interventions that lead to placement opportunities in post-secondary education and training; community connections; high staff-to-participant ratios; career development; and post-program support and follow-up for young people ages 18-24 returning from juvenile justice facilities.“So many of our young people, who form the backbone for the future of our nation, are locked up and return to broken homes, dangerous streets and an atmosphere that encourages recidivism,” said Cummings. “These grants will give Baltimore-area youth a real fighting chance at moving from an institution created to punish toward a lifetime of growth and service. I salute the Department of Labor for taking a vested interest in the future of our nation, by helping to create solid citizens who will work to make a better America.”The Baltimore City Mayor’s Office of Economic Development will operate the program, for young people who reside in the West Baltimore community. The grantee will use YO! Baltimore, a program serving out-of-school youth, as a foundation for the project. Community services projects that are meaningful and beneficial to Westside Communities will be identified and staffed. Proposed projects include: green updates to common areas; grafitti removal; vacant lot cleanup; and support for maintenance of area community centers and meeting places. The program will include team building, comprehensive assessments, life skills, and mental health programming. A key phase of the program will be devoted to educational interventions and career preparation.The Civic Justice Corps was authorized by the Workforce Investment Act for Civic Justice Corps Grants to serve juvenile offenders ages 18 to 24 who have been involved with the juvenile justice system within 12 months before entry into the program. Civic Justice Corps projects funded through this grant announcement will provide young offenders the opportunity to give something back to their communities through community service to make up for past transgressions.-30-
06.20.2011	Cummings, Cardin Host Military Diversity Forum Members will discuss and ask questions of the Military Leadership Diversity Commission.(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings and Senator Benjamin Cardin will host a forum discussing military leadership diversity at the Russell Senate Office Building on Wednesday, June 22nd.The forum will be an opportunity for Members of the United States House of Representatives and United States Senate, respectively, to hear from and ask questions of the Military Leadership Diversity Commission. The Commission issued its final report to Congress in March of this year entitled, From Representation to Inclusion: Diversity Leadership for the 21st Century Military. In part, the Commission found that –• “The Armed Forces must…acknowledge that diversity encompasses more than demographics, and they must take action to harness the range of knowledge, skills, and backgrounds needed to prevail in the rapidly changing operation environment.”• “Racial/ethnic minorities and women are still underrepresented among the Armed Forces’ top leadership, compared with the service members they lead.”• This disparity will become starkly obvious without the successful recruitment, promotion, and retention of racial/ethnic minorities and women among the enlisted force.”“The Military Leadership Diversity Commission provided key recommendations on how the Armed Forces can continue to be trendsetters on inclusion and opportunity. I look forward to hearing further details on the Commission recommendations on how the military can continue to lead the way on diversity,” said Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD).On Thursday, June 16th, Congressman Cummings introduced H.R. 2186, The Military Leaders Enhancement Act, a measure to ensure military readiness in the United States Armed Forces by increasing diversity among officers and senior enlisted ranks of the military services, including the Reserves and National Guard. “I am happy to have worked with Senator Cardin to help host this forum. It is critical that we bring this issue front and center, to ensure that our military reflects the people it serves,” said Cummings. “It is my fervent belief that the Armed Forces should pursue a broader approach to diversity that supports the range of backgrounds, skill sets, and personal attributes that are necessary to enhance military performance. Discussing the report of the Commission at this forum, and the legislation I introduced will help advance that effort.”WHO: Congressman Elijah E. Cummings and Senator Benjamin CardinWHAT: Forum discussing military leadership diversityWHEN: Wednesday, June 22, 2011 at 4 p.m.WHERE: Room 428A, Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, DC-30-
06.16.2011	Cummings Calls For Enhanced Military Readiness By Expanding Armed Forces DiversityLegislation will require metrics and benchmarks to guide effort to support expansion of diversity in Armed Forces’ officer corps and enlisted ranks.(Washington, DC) – Yesterday, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, introduced H.R. 2186, The Military Leaders Enhancement Act, a measure to ensure military readiness in the United States Armed Forces by increasing diversity among officers and senior enlisted ranks of the military services, including the Reserves and National Guard.“To attain the highest level of readiness and preparedness, our Armed Forces must reflect the public they serve at every level of the enlisted and officer corps,” said Cummings. “It is my fervent belief that the Armed Forces should pursue a broader approach to diversity that supports the range of backgrounds, skill sets, and personal attributes that are necessary to enhance military performance. My legislation will help advance that effort.”The Military Leaders Enhancement Act will implement the Military Leadership Diversity Commission’s recommendations. Cummings worked with Senator Ben Cardin and then-Congressman Kendrick Meek of Florida to create the Commission through an amendment included as Section 596 in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2009. According to the Commission’s final report, "…the Armed Forces must…acknowledge that diversity encompasses more than demographics, and they must take action to harness the range of knowledge, skills, and backgrounds needed to prevail in the rapidly changing operation environment.” The Commission also found that "with some exceptions, racial/ethnic minorities and women are underrepresented among senior noncommissioned officers and flag/general officers compared with their representation in the ranks below." H.R. 2186 will require the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security to prepare and implement a plan with a standard set of strategic metrics and benchmarks to track progress toward creating a 20-30 year pipeline of diverse officers and enlisted members within the active duty, National Guard and Reserve components of the Armed Forces. In addition, this bill will require annual reporting on progress made in implementing the plan, as well as data on the demographics of the 3- and 4-star officer pool.-30-
06.12.2011	Congressman Cummings’ Statement on the Killing of His Nephew Christopher CummingsOld Dominion University student was found fatally shot in his off-campus apartment(Baltimore, MD) Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement after the killing of his nephew, Christopher Cummings on the morning of Friday, June 10th.“My family and I remain in shock over the news of the random shooting that took the life of my nephew, Christopher.“Christopher was an amazing young man who was loved and admired by so many people who had the honor of knowing him. An exceptional student with a 3.5 GPA, he had ambitious plans for his future after graduating from Old Dominion. “I am certain that the Norfolk authorities are doing everything within their power to find those responsible for this heinous crime and I urge the local community to cooperate with the police and provide any information that will offer answers to this senseless tragedy.“My family is grateful for the support and condolences we have received and our hearts and prayers are with Jake Carey and his family. Mr. Carey, Christopher’s roommate, is a fellow Old Dominion University student who was critically shot in the incident.”-30-
06.07.2011	Cummings Applauds Foreclosure Mitigation FundsCongressman will continue the fight against foreclosure and fraud with his Sixth Foreclosure Prevention Workshop this month.(Washington, DC) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today applauded the award of more than $1,000,000 to agencies in Maryland. These awards were specifically created to help keep American families in their homes. Today, NeighborWorks America announced that $67.7 million has been awarded to 37 state housing finance agencies (HFAs), 17 HUD-approved housing counseling intermediaries, and 84 community-based NeighborWorks organizations to provide counseling to families and individuals facing the threat of foreclosure.Included in these awards were the Department of Housing and Community Development in Maryland, which received nearly $900,000, and HomeFree USA which received more than $415,000.“I am happy for those who live in Maryland; who have been in fear of losing their homes,” said Cummings. “I hope, more than anything, that these valuable awards will keep the American dream of these families from becoming a nightmare. We know that we will survive this storm, this economic downturn, but the question for so many in my District has always been who will be in their homes, and who will have their jobs, when the waters recede. With this effort by NeighborWorks, more families in Maryland will be able to say, ‘I will live in my home. My investment and my dreams will not go to waste.’”According to NeighborWorks America, more than 1,400 nonprofit counseling agencies and local NeighborWorks organizations across the country are expected to be engaged in the National Foreclosure Mitigation Counseling Program as a result of these awards. To date, more than 1,186,000 families in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and Guam have received foreclosure counseling through the NFMC Program. It is estimated that an additional 184,000 families facing the threat of foreclosure will be directly assisted with the awards announced today.Cummings’ Foreclosure Prevention Workshop will take place on Saturday June 25, from 9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. It will be held at Woodlawn Senior High School in Gwynn Oak. Those interested in registering can visit cummings.house.gov for more information.-30-
06.02.2011	Cummings, Maryland Officials Urge Homeowners To Take Action To Save Their Homes“Bridge Loans” championed by Cummings available in Maryland immediately.(Baltimore, MD) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) was joined today by Lt. Governor Anthony G. Brown, Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings Blake, Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development Secretary Raymond A. Skinner, and Vincent P. Quayle, Executive Director of St. Ambrose Housing Aid Center, for a press conference, urging homeowners at risk of losing their homes to take advantage of the Emergency Mortgage Assistance Program (EMA). The press conference was held at the home of a Baltimore City resident who recently received approval for an EMA loan.“Today, we stand on a lawn that will continue to be mown, in front of a house that will continue to be the roof over the head of one family in our community,” said Cummings. “This home represents their American Dream. Like most families in America, this is the biggest single investment these folks will ever make and because of the bridge loan program, they will be able to keep their home and hopefully pass it on to the next generation and to generations yet unborn. I applaud Maryland for getting this program running as quickly as they have, to save homes likes this at a time it is so critically needed.” More than 11,000 homes in Baltimore were foreclosed on last year, creating a $1.5 billion loss in the city’s economy.“Support for at-risk homeowners thought the Emergency Mortgage Assistance Programs is a reflection of Congressman Cummings commitment to the people of Baltimore and Maryland,” said Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. “By helping vulnerable families keep their homes, we can continue to strengthen our neighborhoods. I urge anyone facing foreclosure to take advantage of this lifeline for you and your family.”Congressman Cummings championed the creation of the EMA “bridge loan” program to assist unemployed homeowners, which was ultimately included in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Legislation. "Thanks to Congressman Cummings’ aggressive efforts on behalf of foreclosure prevention and the O’Malley-Brown Administration’s support, Maryland has taken significant steps to help struggling homeowners,” said Raymond A. Skinner, Secretary of the Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development. “Without this kind of support, more Marylanders would lose their homes to foreclosure, and that is simply unacceptable.”The program provides a maximum of $50,000 to assist in the payment of up to 12 months of arrears, including delinquent taxes and insurance, and will cover such costs up to 24 months going forward from the date of the approval of the loan. The foundation of strong communities are families who are secure in their homes,” said Lt. Governor Anthony Brown. “Governor O’Malley and I are proud to work with Congressman Cummings, Mayor Rawlings-Blake, and all of our partners at the federal, state and local levels to help keep hard-working Marylanders in their homes. I encourage families to take advantage of the Emergency Mortgage Assistance program and all the resources that Maryland has to offer for struggling homeowners.”The $40 million in funding received by Maryland for EMA loans must be allocated by this September. -30-
05.30.2011	Cummings Thanks Those Who Made Ultimate Sacrifice (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today released a statement on the occasion of Memorial Day.“I ask all Marylanders to join me in thanking those who have given what President Lincoln called ‘the full measure of devotion’ in the service of our nation,” said Cummings. “Our nation has been served throughout our history by some of the best and brightest American men and women. At times during that history, some of them have not come home to the ones they love. I pray today for those who gave everything and for those whose lives were left with an empty space when they did not return. I also thank all those who serve to protect our country now and hope that those in harm’s way will return home soon to their friends, families and the nation that so appreciates their service.” -30-
05.24.2011	Quigley, Cummings Introduce Bill to Make All Congressional Reports Public(Washington, DC) - Today, U.S. Representatives Mike Quigley (IL-05) and Elijah Cummings (MD-7) introduced a bill to make all reports written for Congress by federal agencies available to the public. The Access to Congressionally Mandated Reports Act—also co-sponsored by Reps. William Lacy Clay (MO-1), Stephen Lynch (MA-9), Edolphus Towns (NY-10), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (DC), and Jim Cooper (TN-5)—creates a single website where the public can easily search, sort and download all congressional reports from agencies ranging from the Food and Drug Administration to the Department of Justice. “One of our most important jobs as a Congress is to ensure that every American knows what is happening in Washington, DC; that every American has the ability to read the same information about their nation that we do; and that every American knows that we are making efforts towards transparency that can help encourage trust in our government,” said Cummings. “I am very proud to help make that happen by joining Rep. Quigley in introducing legislation that will help our government provide this crucial service to every American.”“Each year federal agencies submit thousands of reports containing vital information to Congress, but many simply sit collecting dust in the Committees to which they are delivered,” said Quigley. “This bill ensures government’s business is done transparently and is accountable to the people it serves.” Congressionally mandated reports contain a wealth of information that enable the public to better understand how well federal agencies are (or are not) fulfilling their respective missions, from ensuring the safety of our drugs and food supply, to protecting the environment, and monitoring the soundness of our financial institutions. The Access to Congressionally Mandated Reports Act calls for any report required by statute to be issued to Congress and releasable under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) to be posted on a website managed by the US Government Printing Office (GPO). The reports would be available no later than 30 days after their transmission to Congress.-30-
05.16.2011	Cummings Commends NASA On The Successful Launch Of Space Shuttle Endeavour (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today released the following statement, after the successful launch of Endeavour from the Kennedy Space Center near Titusville, FL.“Since the launch of Commander Alan Shepard 50 years ago, NASA has provided the means, the drive and the knowhow to move us to the edge of our technological capability and to push beyond that edge. I commend NASA and the contractors who work with them on the successful launch of STS-134, the shuttle Endeavour, which is carrying the hero-husband of my friend Gabrielle Giffords, Commander Mark Kelly. As he so eloquently said this morning before the launch, ‘It is in the DNA of our nation to reach for the stars, and we must not stop.’ “As I and all of her colleagues are anxious for her return to this Congress, Gabby is anxious for Mark to complete his mission successfully and return home with the pride of our nation, the Space Shuttle Endeavour. I wish he and his crew Godspeed.”-30-
05.06.2011	Cummings Pleased With Private Sector Job CreationCongressman notes third straight month of 200K+ jobs being added. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the Joint Economic Committee, released a statement today, following the February employment report released this morning by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. “I am pleased to see that the private sector is rebounding from the recession,” said Cummings. “President Obama said when he took office that regaining our economic footing would be a slow and steady climb, not an immediate ascent. The hard work we did in the last Congress, to grow jobs, to cut taxes for the middle class and to increase opportunities for Americans to go back to work has now created that improvement. American private sector companies have added jobs for three straight months, and I am proud of Americans who are going back to work. “However, we cannot rest on our laurels. The 9 percent unemployment rate shows that we are still not out of the woods. Millions of Americans face a loss of unemployment benefits, foreclosure or just the crippling depression that accompanies anyone who is out of work. I call on my friends across the aisle to put forth their first job creation bill next week. Give the American people something to grab hold of, to continue pulling our nation out of the ditch.” -30-
05.05.2011	Cummings: Put Americans First!Congressman disappointed in Republican obstruction of amendment to require use of U.S.-flagged vessels in oil drilling and production operations. (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Senior Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, criticized the House Rules Committee Republicans for rejecting an amendment he offered to H.R. 1229, the Putting the Gulf of Mexico Back to Work Act, and refusing to allow it to be considered by the full House. The amendment, which was not made in order, would have required that all oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities within the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of the United States be conducted by U.S.-flagged vessels owned by U.S. citizens employing U.S. personnel. "We must ensure this bill lives up to its name, by using it to put Americans back to work. American workers should be employed to extract American natural resources from the American EEZ, and they should be protected by American labor laws," said Congressman Cummings. "As well, it is critical to both our economic recovery, and the fair treatment of our taxpayers that vessels used to extract these resources be owned by U.S. citizens paying U.S. taxes. "Adoption of my amendment would have achieved all of these objectives. Now, because of Republican obstruction, the amendment will not even be considered. Apparently, my friends on the other side of the aisle prefer that our resources be extracted by foreign-flagged vessels owned by foreign companies. "Keeping American jobs in America is critical, but my amendment would also have helped make drilling safer. Given the devastation caused by the Deepwater Horizon accident, safety must be a priority in the offshore industry. The Coast Guard's inspections of foreign-flagged drilling platforms are simply not equivalent to the service's inspections of U.S.-flagged platforms, even when these foreign platforms are operating in the EEZ in the Gulf. Requiring that all drilling activities be conducted by U.S.-flagged vessels would require these vessels to meet our safety standards." During the 110th and 111th Congresses, Cummings served as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. In June 2010, shortly after the Deepwater Horizon accident, he convened a Subcommittee hearing to examine the extent of foreign vessel operations in the EEZ. At the time of the hearing, there were 37 U.S.-flagged and 57 foreign-flagged mobile offshore drilling units (MODU) active on the U.S. outer Continental Shelf (OCS). The Deepwater Horizon was operating in the U.S. EEZ recovering U.S. resources while flagged in the Marshall Islands.-30-
05.04.2011	Cummings Encourages Marylanders To Take Advantage Of Health Insurance Plans For Those With Pre-Existing ConditionsNew plan was established by landmark healthcare reform legislation. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today announced that the Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan (PCIP) that was established by the Affordable Care Act is now available. The PCIP is administered by Maryland and provides a health coverage option for children and adults in all 50 states and the District of Columbia who have been locked out of the health insurance market because of a pre-existing condition. This transitional program will continue until 2014 when Americans, regardless of their health status, will have access to affordable health insurance when the nation transitions to a new marketplace. To be eligible for PCIP, you must: Be a U.S. citizen or reside here legally Be uninsured for at least the last six months Have a pre-existing condition or have been denied health coverage because of a health condition For more information and how to apply, go to “Find Your State” at www.pcip.gov and click on your state from a map of the United States or select a state from a drop-down menu for information about how to apply. You can also call a toll-free line at: 1-866-717-5826 (TTY 1-866-561-1604). The Call Center is open from 8 AM to 11 PM Eastern Time. A brochure is available online that can be printed and distributed: https://www.healthcare.gov/center/brochures/pcip.pdf -30-
05.01.2011	Reservoir High School Artist Wins Congressional CompetitionWork Will Be Displayed in Nation’s Capitol & Compete for National Honors(Baltimore, MD) – On Saturday, Congressman Elijah Cummings [MD-7] announced that a distinguished panel of experts has named Kamal Browne the 7th Congressional District’s winner of An Artistic Discovery, the national art competition for high school students sponsored by the Congress.His creation, entitled “Growth”, will now be on display in the United States Capitol and Mr. Browne will compete for national honors this summer with other winning artists from congressional districts throughout the country.Mr. Browne, a junior at Howard County’s Reservoir High School, was among 60 young artists from area high schools honored for their creativity at the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore on Saturday, April 30.The judges, drawn from curators and artists throughout the region, declared that the selection process was among the most competitive and compelling in years.“There are some who believe that art and music are luxuries that our schools can no longer afford,” Congressman Cummings observed to an overflowing gathering in the Walters’ Sculpture Court, site of the competition. “I must disagree, both as a parent and as an elected representative.”“Each and every one of these young artists is a winner in my mind,” the Congressman continued. “To witness their ideas transformed into works of art that we all can appreciate is a heartening and powerful experience for us all.” More than 750,000 high school students nationally have competed in An Artistic Discovery since the national competition was created by Congress in 1982.-30-
05.01.2011	Cummings Statement On The Death Of Osama Bin Laden(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and former member of the Committee on Armed Services, tonight issued this statement, following the announcement by President Obama that United States forces have killed Osama Bin Laden.“Tonight, the Commander in Chief of the United States announced that our men and women in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region have killed Osama Bin Laden. I commend President Obama and our forces for the successful operation against Osama bin Laden, the evil mastermind of so much devastation. Yet, this moment of justice for the victims of 911 should be tempered with caution."I agree with the President's wise counsel. Our fight is with terrorism, not with Islam. All those who love peace must redouble our efforts to protect the innocent against the forces of terror. Osama Bin Laden orchestrated dozens of terrorist attacks, including the 1993 World Trade Center bombing and the wide array of attacks on September 11th 2001 that killed more than 2700 innocent Americans in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania. “The pursuit of bin Laden has been only one part of our war on international terrorism; a war that has cost the lives of more than 6,000 American soldiers. Tonight, I pray for their families, for the families of those lost on 9/11, for the more than 43,000 American fighting men and women who have been wounded in our military operations and for all those men and women worldwide who have been touched by terror.“America is a strong, proud nation that will never allow our precious freedoms to fall under attack, without mounting a great and mighty defense. Though it took years, the death of Osama bin Laden shows the righteous might of our citizens and our military in response to the dastardly attacks on innocent American civilians. I offer all those involved the thanks of a grateful nation.” -30-
04.25.2011	Cummings Applauds “Transformative” Gift To University Of Maryland Law SchoolCongressman spoke at Honoree Reception following announcement(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today spoke at a reception honoring the W.P. Carey Foundation for their gift of $30 million to the University of Maryland School of Law. In honor of that gift, the School will be renamed the Francis King Carey School of Law after the grandfather of William Polk Carey, the head of the Carey Foundation. William Polk Carey was born in Baltimore and Francis King Carey graduated from the law school in 1880.Here are the prepared remarks delivered by Congressman Cummings:“Thank you, Dean [Phoebe] Haddon, for your kind words of introduction - and for all that you are doing to build this world-class School of Law.Good afternoon, everyone.Personally, and on behalf of my colleagues and friends in government, thank you for your commitment to our law school’s continuing mission of universal justice and equity. I had great expectations when I graduated from this law school in 1976.Yet, I must confess that I did not have the audacity to believe that a day would come when I would be sharing this podium.Life was different in those days.And for all the trials and tribulations that we have faced during the last 35 years, I must observe that – on balance – our nation and Great State of Maryland offers far more opportunity today than when I was young.The University of Maryland School of Law gave us a solid foundation in the law even back then.Yet, we were just beginning the clinical programs that would give our law school its national ranking.Mine was one of the first law school classes that included a substantial number of women and minorities.Today, the students here can set their sights on becoming President of the United States – or even Dean of the University of Maryland School of Law.I say this to you for reasons that go far beyond my own gratitude and nostalgia.I say this to you on behalf the hundreds of thousands of neighbors whom I now represent.As someone who began his life in a rented South Baltimore row house just blocks from here, someone who often looked at that Ft. McHenry flag and wondered whether “liberty and justice for all” included me, I offer you this insight.I share with you this personal reflection about what we so proudly term “the Rule of Law.”Ladies and gentlemen, either the law is committed to serving everyone or it serves no one adequately.Self-government cannot be grounded solely upon civic participation on Election Day.Self-government finds its most frequent and personal application in the right of every person to seek justice in our courts.This is why Dean Haddon and her colleagues are so very, very important to all of us.The professors here are the people to whom we entrust the future of our self-government and the justice of our society.I remind you of this truth for this reason.It is not sufficient for our law school to be better than it once was.It is not enough to be “good enough.”We are all here today because we understand that the University of Maryland School of Law must be the very best that it is possible for us to achieve.And this, my friends, is why I have joined you today to thank the W.P. Carey Foundation for what Dean Haddon has called their “transformative gift.”This is why a Son of South Baltimore can honestly stand before you and say, “We truly have committed ourselves to assuring liberty and just for ALL” in our community.Thank you.”-30-
04.21.2011	Cummings Lauds Expansion Of Small Business-Boosting Government Program(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and senior member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, today applauded the expansion of the Department of Transportation’s Bonding Education Program. The announcement was made by Secretary Ray LaHood Wednesday morning. LaHood said that the education program would allow small and disadvantaged businesses to be better positioned to compete for large government contracts. “This is a critical step by the Department of Transportation and is an illustration of what government does well,” said Cummings. “We need to take every available step to expand the participation of disadvantaged businesses in the contracting process. If these companies do not have the same opportunity to build their businesses as larger companies do, they will not grow. Competition is at the heart of America, and this education program will enable more disadvantaged businesses to understand what they need to do to successfully obtain the bonding they need to compete. I am particularly excited that the program will come to Baltimore. I commend Secretary LaHood and DOT for expanding this program, and I hope it continues for many years to come.” Most government contracts require a business to produce a bond to protect the government financially in the event the business is not able to complete a project under the terms of a contract. A lack of bonding can severely limit the ability of small companies to compete for federal projects. The expansion of the Department’s Small Business Bonding Education Program, a partnership with Surety and Fidelity Association of America, is designed to help more businesses succeed in the federal contracting arena. BEP is a 10-week curriculum that enables participants to attend class one night per week. Participants are also simultaneously paired with a local surety bond professional who will work with them one-on-one to help them succeed. -30-
04.18.2011	Cummings Mourns The Loss Of Former Governor William Donald Schafer(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today issued a statement following the passing of former Maryland Governor and Baltimore Mayor William Donald Schafer."This is a sad day for the people of Maryland - and for me, personally," Cummings observed. "This is a proud man who devoted more than five decades to public service. His loss evokes more than our gratitude; it is as if each of us has lost a member of our family.""As a leader, Donald Schaefer's greatest strength was that he was a Baltimorean to the core of his being," the Congressman continued. "He exemplified the determination and the pride in hard work well done that is at the heart of our character as a community.""Even on those occasions when we disagreed on policy," Cummings concluded, "I never doubted that he had the public's well-being at the forefront of his mind. With Donald Schaefer's passing, an era has ended in our community. He will be missed." -30-
04.13.2011	Representative Cummings and 23 Members Introduce Preserving Homes and Communities Act of 2011Bicameral, sweeping legislation will address the foreclosure crisis and hold banks accountable (Washington, DC) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today was joined by more than 20 original co-sponsors in introducing H.R. 1477, the Preserving Homes and Communities Act of 2011. The Preserving Homes Act is designed to stop mortgage servicer activities that are harming America’s economic recovery, and to help keep Americans in their homes by ensuring a fair playing field for consumers and banks.“The foreclosure crisis and the alleged fraudulent activities by mortgage servicers continue to cost millions their shot at the American Dream. They jeopardize the stability of communities across the country and undermine our economic recovery,” said Cummings. “We are confronting a fundamentally broken system, and with millions more homes on the brink of foreclosure, Congress must take action. This legislation will increase consumer protections, level the playing field at the bargaining table, and hold banks and servicers accountable for providing relief to qualified homeowners.”The Preserving Homes Act would make major changes to the mortgage servicing and foreclosure process including: • Expanding and improving loan modification programs by requiring lenders and servicers to evaluate homeowners for sustainable modifications prior to initiating foreclosure, and to offer approved modifications to qualified homeowners. • Eliminating the “dual tracking” scenario in which borrowers are evaluated for a loan modification while foreclosure proceedings are advanced. • Responding to the recent “robo-signing” allegations by requiring servicers, if they deny a modification, to prove that they actually have the legal right to foreclose. • Placing reasonable limits on the manner in which foreclosure-related fees can be charged. • Creating an appeals process for those homeowners who are denied a loan modification.Since 2007, our nation has experienced 6.6 million foreclosure filings and 5 million completed foreclosures, and 3 million more foreclosures are predicted to occur in 2011. In the current quasi-regulated foreclosure landscape, servicers allegedly engaged in systemic fraud and abuse nationwide. Investigations by all 50 state Attorneys General into the allegations of misconduct by the mortgage servicers have uncovered “critical deficiencies . . . in foreclosure preparation and oversight, resulting in violations of state and local foreclosure laws, regulations and rules.” Allegations include signing tens of thousands of false affidavits, inflating fees, illegal actions against our troops and veterans, and aggressively pursuing foreclosure when modification is already underway. H.R. 1477 is the companion bill to legislation authored by Senator Jack Reed (D-RI), S.489, which has nine cosponsors in the Senate. The legislation has the support of more than a dozen consumer groups dedicated to keeping people in their homes, including: Center for Responsible Lending, National Council of La Raza, National Fair Housing Alliance, National Consumer Law Center, National Association of Consumer Advocates, Center for NYC Neighborhoods, Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, Community Organizations in Action, Alliance for a Just Society, Main Street Alliance, National Community Reinvestment Coalition, Consumer Action, and Americans for Financial ReformYesterday, Cummings sent a letter to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) requesting a detailed briefing on the results of the OCC’s investigation into allegations that mortgage servicing companies engaged in systematic abuses against homeowners facing foreclosure. Given the serious concerns raised by consumer groups and other entities, he asked the OCC to consider postponing any further action on a consent order currently being negotiated between the agency, the four major U.S. regulators and mortgage servicers. The OCC plans to brief Cummings on the abuses the agency identified in during its investigation.Original Cosponsors in the House include: Reps. Hansen Clarke, George Miller, Brad Miller, William Lacy Clay, Shelley Berkley, Anna Eshoo, Lynn Woolsey, Peter Welch, Jackie Speier, John Garamendi, Corrine Brown, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Raul Grijalva, Maurice Hinchey, Donna Edwards, Rush Holt, David Cicciline, Gwen Moore,Betty Sutton, Jan Schakowsky, John Tierney, Alcee Hastings, and Rep. Al Green.-30-
04.05.2011	Cummings Blast Hearing as Republican Message Opportunity, Part 4 Congressman Calls for Hearing on Impact of Massive GOP cuts to Health Care Programs for Millions of Seniors, the Disabled and Children (Washington, DC) – At today’s hearing on the management of Medicare and Medicaid, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings advocated for aggressive measures to crack down on waste and fraud in the programs. However, Cummings questioned the intent of the hearing given the Republican’s budget proposal that would severely gut the two programs. Cummings, Ranking Member of House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, touted the Obama Administration’s effort to expand the Health Care Fraud and Abuse Control Programs, which recovered more than $18 billion to the federal Treasury. Despite this unprecedented progress in rooting out fraud, and the dependence on Medicare and Medicaid for more than 115 million vulnerable Americans, the Republican budget forces the first step in a “path to poverty for seniors, people with disabilities, and children across the country,” said Cummings. “This is disgraceful, it is wrong, and it is immoral.” Below are excepts from Cummings’s opening statement as prepared for delivery. “Given the millions of Americans who rely on these programs, it is imperative that we root out fraud, because every dollar squandered is a dollar that does not go to critical health care services for these vulnerable Americans. …I am encouraged that the Obama Administration has taken on fraud so aggressively by expanding on the efforts of the Clinton and Bush Administrations. “While I support these aggressive efforts, I am concerned that combating fraud is not the real purpose of today’s hearing. This hearing appears to be the fourth in a series of identical hearings mandated by the House Republican leadership to promote messaging around its broader goal of slashing government health care programs to the bone. “Just this morning, Republicans on the House Budget Committee announced massive, unprecedented new cuts to the Medicaid and Medicare programs. … But what are the Republican priorities? They do not eliminate subsidies for oil companies that are drilling right now in the Gulf for free. Their proposal does not scale back the Bush tax breaks for the richest 2% of our society. To the contrary, they lower the top corporate tax rate even further, down to 25%. “The Republicans call this their Path to Prosperity, and that’s exactly what it is—for the rich. But it’s a Path to Poverty for millions of seniors, people with disabilities, and children across the country. This is disgraceful, it is wrong, and it is immoral. This is not just about cutting dollars—it’s about our values as a nation, and it’s about our priorities as Americans. “Rather than holding yet another “check the box” hearing to echo the Republican leadership’s message of the week, I propose that this Committee hold a hearing to examine how the Republican budget proposal will deny critical health care services to millions of the most vulnerable Americans among us.” -30-
04.05.2011	Cummings Congratulates Debbie Wasserman Schultz (Washington, DC) – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released a statement, following Tim Kaine stepping down and the appointment of Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz as Chair of the Democratic National Committee. “In Tim Kaine, Democrats have a sure winner in the race to represent Virginia in the Senate,” said Cummings. “In Debbie Wasserman Schultz, we have one of my greatest friends in the House and one of the fiercest defenders of the progressive values that I hold near and dear to my heart. She will now be in a role where she can bring to bear that ferocity, an unmatched sense of dedication and a superlative work ethic, to help remind Americans of the importance of progressive lawmakers who are committed to moving our nation forward. “While Republicans released a staggering budget that would destroy our monumental healthcare reform efforts and which would essentially do away with the Medicare and Medicaid programs that we have protected for more than 40 years, Debbie will serve as an incredible example of what Americans can do when they do not live in constant fear, because they have access to the best healthcare in the world. “Debbie not only survived cancer, but she has gone on to thrive as the mother of three and one of the brightest young voices in the Democratic Party. She understands the importance of building a nation that all Americans can be proud of; one in which all children have access to a top-notch education, a growing economy and the knowledge that they can grow up to be anything they put their mind to. I am excited to watch what Debbie does as the next Chair of the Democratic Party, and I am ecstatic with the growth that I know she will bring as we head into 2012.” -30-
04.01.2011	Cummings Announces Beginning Of Maryland “Bridge Loans”Emergency loans for homeowners who are between jobs will help keep residents out of foreclosure (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today applauded the announcement that Maryland would begin creating loans for homeowners who were between jobs through no fault of their own. These loans are part of the Emergency Homeowners Loan Program created by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform legislation passed last year by the Congress. The loans, called “bridge loans” were created in part through legislation written by Congressman Cummings. “I helped create the bridge loan program to help everyday, hard-working Americans; the same folks who we all see everyday in our neighborhoods,” said Cummings. “These are the same people who have showed up time after time sitting in the front row of my Foreclosure Prevention Workshops, with tears running down their faces. This program is welcome news for them and the countless others in Maryland who are desperately trying to hold onto the American dream of homeownership.” The new program provides assistance in the payment of up to 12 months of arrears, including delinquent taxes and insurance, and up to 24 months going forward, with a maximum combined total of $50,000. Eligible homeowners include those who: Are experiencing a loss of employment income because of the economy or a medical condition. Homeowner(s) must have a current income that is at least 15% less than it was prior to the loss of employment.Are 3-12 months delinquent on their mortgage payments and pending foreclosure. It must be the first mortgage on the principal residence of the homeowner.Have a total household income equal to, or less than, 120% of the Area Median Income (AMI), including wages, unemployment benefits, and other income. (See www.mdhope.org for AMI chart.) Have a reasonable likelihood (based on industry underwriting standards) of being able to resume mortgage payments within 2 years, when full employment has been regained.Prospective applicants must meet certain prequalification requirements. Homeowners will be able to access assistance in this process through specially trained housing counseling agencies approved by the Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development and at various foreclosure prevention events. Homeowners can get more details on Maryland’s Emergency Mortgage Assistance Program by visiting the HOPE website at www.mdhope.org or by calling the HOPE hotline (877) 462-7555.
04.01.2011	Cummings Hopes For Legislation To Continue Job CreationCongressman pleased with continued drop in unemployment. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the Joint Economic Committee, released a statement today, following the February employment report released this morning by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.“In the last Congress, we made it our goal to create American jobs,” said Cummings. “We passed legislation to help create those jobs, to give tax credits to job creators and to rebuild the infrastructure of our nation, so more Americans would be needed in the workforce. I am incredibly proud that in the past six months, we have seen evidence of our work. Jobs continue to be created and unemployment is now dropping at a clip that allows us to build economically.“However, in the 14 weeks since the Majority party has taken the gavel, we have not seen a single bill that continues the Democratic effort to create jobs. I know that there is a split in the Republican party; that there are some who want to create jobs, while there are others who feel that cutting our national deficit is the most important thing. I hope the Majority can come together and work with Democrats to continue putting Americans back to work.”-30-
04.01.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Announces Beginning Of Maryland “Bridge Loans”Emergency loans for homeowners who are between jobs will help keep residents out of foreclosure (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today applauded the announcement that Maryland would begin creating loans for homeowners who were between jobs through no fault of their own. These loans are part of the Emergency Homeowners Loan Program created by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform legislation passed last year by the Congress. The loans, called “bridge loans” were created in part through legislation written by Congressman Cummings. “I helped create the bridge loan program to help everyday, hard-working Americans; the same folks who we all see everyday in our neighborhoods,” said Cummings. “These are the same people who have showed up time after time sitting in the front row of my Foreclosure Prevention Workshops, with tears running down their faces. This program is welcome news for them and the countless others in Maryland who are desperately trying to hold onto the American dream of homeownership.” The new program provides assistance in the payment of up to 12 months of arrears, including delinquent taxes and insurance, and up to 24 months going forward, with a maximum combined total of $50,000. Eligible homeowners include those who: Are experiencing a loss of employment income because of the economy or a medical condition. Homeowner(s) must have a current income that is at least 15% less than it was prior to the loss of employment.Are 3-12 months delinquent on their mortgage payments and pending foreclosure. It must be the first mortgage on the principal residence of the homeowner.Have a total household income equal to, or less than, 120% of the Area Median Income (AMI), including wages, unemployment benefits, and other income. (See www.mdhope.org for AMI chart.) Have a reasonable likelihood (based on industry underwriting standards) of being able to resume mortgage payments within 2 years, when full employment has been regained.Prospective applicants must meet certain prequalification requirements. Homeowners will be able to access assistance in this process through specially trained housing counseling agencies approved by the Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development and at various foreclosure prevention events. Homeowners can get more details on Maryland’s Emergency Mortgage Assistance Program by visiting the HOPE website at www.mdhope.org or by calling the HOPE hotline (877) 462-7555.
03.30.2011	Cummings’ Statement On Retirement Of Dr. Nancy Grasmick(Baltimore, MD) - Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement after Dr. Nancy Grasmick announced her retirement as Maryland State Superintendent of Schools. “No other person has done more to further education in Maryland than Dr. Nancy Grasmick. In an era where so much emphasis is put on test scores, Dr. Grasmick has had the wisdom and courage to make sure Maryland schools address the whole child. I have had the pleasure to work closely with Dr. Grasmick on several education-related initiatives including the Powered by Me! anti-steroids campaign and several school safety programs. Her boundless energy and commitment to our students are unparalleled.“Dr. Grasmick is a true champion for academic achievement. Under her leadership the State of Maryland has been nationally recognized for its student performance, teacher effectiveness and pioneering education policies. For an unprecedented three years in a row, Education Week has ranked Maryland’s public schools first in the nation. Because of her tireless efforts, Maryland was awarded a federal “Race to the Top” grant worth up to $250 million. Dr. Grasmick understands there is no substitute for quality education and that a strong investment in our public schools is a strong investment in our future. “After twenty years as Maryland’s First Lady of Education, Dr. Grasmick leaves a luminous legacy and because of her vision, every student in the State will have an opportunity to achieve academic success.”-30-
03.29.2011	Cummings Denounces Lack of Republican Plan to Address Foreclosure CrisisCongressman disappointed in attempt to repeal HAMP with no alternative to help families stay in their homes.(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today denounced the Republican attempt to repeal the Home Affordable Mortgage Program (HAMP) without offering any alternative solution to help American families who face foreclosure. Cummings also called on the Obama Administration to retool and improve the program, which has already helped more than a half a million families. Cummings remarks came in advance of House consideration of H.R. 839, the HAMP Termination Act of 2011.“Our nation is in the grips of a mounting foreclosure crisis,” Cummings said in a prepared statement, “This crisis is being severely aggravated by the actions of mortgage servicing companies. During a hearing before the Oversight Committee, the Special Inspector General for TARP called the actions of these banks “abysmal.” They have engaged in systemic abuses, signed false affidavits, inflated fees, and illegally foreclosed on military service members. “Rather than holding these banks accountable, Republicans would eliminate a program that has already helped more than half a million families stay in their homes. What is their counter-proposal? What would Republicans replace this program with? Absolutely nothing.“I certainly believe that HAMP can be improved – and I call on the Administration to make immediate improvements – but the legislation before us today makes no effort to strengthen this program. Instead, it simply abandons families on the brink of losing their homes, it harms investors, and it threatens our nation’s entire economic recovery.”HAMP was created by the Obama Administration to help people who are facing foreclosures. The program is designed to encourage mortgage modifications and help homeowners negotiate directly with their banks and lenders. According to the Treasury Department, more than 500,000 mortgages have been reduced, at an average of more than 35 percent. Homeowners who stay in the HAMP program are getting an average of $500 off their monthly mortgage payments. Neil Barofsky, retiring Special Inspector General for TARP said in a recent newspaper interview, “You have $28 billion that will likely never get spent. That is such a lost opportunity to deal with this … where you actually have the money sitting there, obligated, and not wanting to do the right thing to find a way to spend it to help struggling homeowner.”-30-
03.17.2011	Cummings Receives Health Award(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) today was awarded the Cradle of Hope Legacy Award from Baltimore Healthy Start, in recognition of his work to encourage prenatal and infant health.The award was presented at the Cradle of Hope Legacy Luncheon, which commemorated the organization’s 20th anniversary. “I am proud to be here with Cradle of Hope and to accept this award,” said Cummings. “We must take care of our children, both before they are born and after they enter this world. They are the living messages we send to a future we will never see. That message must be one of hope and promise. Cradle of Hope helps make that message a reality.” The Cradle of Hope is Baltimore Healthy Start's public awareness initiative to inform and mobilize Maryland Residents about issues contributing to infant mortality, low birth weight and pre-term births.Cummings was recognized along with former Baltimore Mayor Kurt Schmoke. Senators Benjamin Cardin and Barbara Mikulski were recognized with the Cradle of Hope award.-30-
03.16.2011	Cummings Recognizes 40th Anniversary of Congressional Black CaucusCongressman pleased to mark longevity of the voice of Black Americans in Congress.Washington DC – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform released the following statement on the 40th Anniversary of the Congressional Black Caucus:“As we celebrate forty years of service to our nation, I am humbled and honored to serve alongside the 41 other Members of the Congressional Black Caucus,” said Cummings. “We celebrate the progress that we have made as a Caucus and recognize those who have made and continue to make that progress possible. We also honor the founding Members still serving with us today, the Honorable Charles Rangel and the Honorable John Conyers.“Throughout our history, the Congressional Black Caucus has worked tirelessly to ensure that all Americans, regardless of race, color or creed have the chance to pursue and achieve the American dream. Leading our communities and country with passion and commitment, the Congressional Black Caucus continuously strives to be a voice for the voiceless, continually earning the moniker ‘the conscience of the Congress’.“The Congressional Black Caucus will not compromise when it comes to the welfare of our constituents and communities. Our top priority remains getting Americans back to work by creating economic opportunity for all, not cutting critical programs that impact the welfare of our most vulnerable communities. We will work diligently to ensure our children have the ability to learn from pre-school to college. While many attempt to de-fund and destroy Health Care reform, the CBC remains steadfast and committed to defending and ensuring equal access to healthcare for all Americans.”“As we reflect on our 40 years of service, we renew our commitment to make the promise of America the practice of America.”-30-
03.16.2011	Cummings Urges Boehner To Protect Social Security Congressman signs letter encouraging Speaker to avoid funding cuts present in H.R. 1. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform recently signed onto a letter, co-signed by 124 other Members, urging Speaker John Boehner to move away from cuts to Social Security written into the Republican Continuing Resolution, H.R. 1. Cuts in that document, which is acting as the Republican basis for negotiations on the eventual 2011 Continuing Resolution, will create more than $1.5 billion in cuts to the Social Security Administration’s operating budget. SSA estimates that the cuts would create a shutdown in SSA operations of up to four weeks, delaying benefit processing for almost 700,000 new retirees. “We ask you to join us in taking a firm stand on protecting SSA’s ability to provide critical services to Americans,” the letter read in part. “Social Security is our social contract with workers in our nation,” said Cummings. “It tells Americans that when they work to help improve our economy and our standing in the world; when they go to work to help provide for their families, this country will not allow them to live through starvation, ill health and fear in their retirement years. “Social Security is not, and has never been, a retirement fund. It is an insurance policy; making certain that no one who lives in our nation will have to work themselves into a grave, for fear of not being able to support themselves after retirement. We must protect this critical promise to our future.” -30-
03.11.2011	Cummings Nominates Students To Service AcademiesCongressman proud to support future national leaders from Baltimore City and Baltimore and Howard Counties.(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) was proud to recently nominate 24 area high school students to attend four of our nation’s service academies.Ten students were recommended to the United States Naval Academy (USNA) at Annapolis, MD; Seven were nominated to the United States Military Academy (USMA) at West Point, NY; three will have the chance to attend the United States Air Force Academy (AFA) at Colorado Springs, CO and eight will have an opportunity to learn skills vital to the Baltimore area, as they attend the United States Merchant Marine Academy (MMA) in Kings Point, NY. Out of these 24 nominees, four were nominated to more than one academy.The Seventh District had 44 applicants for the nominations. The nominees are listed below. Parents who wish for their children to join these students in service to the nation can find information on next year’s nomination application cycle at www.house.gov/cummings.Congressman Cummings will celebrate with the future leaders of our uniformed services. The Service Academy Nomination Celebration is scheduled for Saturday, March 12, 2011 from 12:30-2:30 at the University of Baltimore, Thumel Business Center. Nominations – Naval Academy: Shaffer Bond, Emily Olszewski, Thomas Solomon, Kristen Long, Zachary Hynson, Aran McMurtray, Arvind Stone, Tyrise Shepard-Lewis, Kirby Taylor, Seth TaveraMilitary Academy at West Point: Brandon Stokholm, Brett Stokholm, Brandon Randolph, John Jennings, Rylan King, Andrew Martin, Nora Considine Air Force Academy: John Jennings, Mitchell Clark, Albert Davila United States Merchant Marine Academy: Shaffer Bond, Emily Olszewski, Kristen Long, David McGowan, Delaney Luman, Timothy Kraft, Matthew Morrow, John Borkowski Multiple Nominations: Shaffer Bond (USNA and USMMA), Emily Olszweski (USNA and USMMA) Kristen Long (USNA and USMMA) John Jennings (USMA and USAFA)-30-
03.11.2011	Cummings Disgusted At Republican Attempt To Destroy Bridge Loan ProgramCongressman twice took to House floor to defend critical foreclosure avoidance program(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today voted against the passage of H.R. 836, the Emergency Mortgage Relief Program Termination Act. H.R. 836 would cancel the EMRP, also called the “bridge loan” program.These loans, included in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform bill, were championed by Congressman Cummings. They allow a short-term, small loan to homeowners who are out of work, through no fault of their own. This loan, which is repaid to the U.S. Government, allows the homeowner to avoid the massive legal, personal and other costs involved with foreclosure, and allows families to remain in their homes.“These folks are going through the difficult times; these are the same people that have showed up time after time sitting in the front row of something I call my Foreclosure Prevention Program, with tears running down their faces,” said Cummings. “To take this away from them is a disgusting joke. Many of them have never missed a mortgage payment, have worked hard every day, and have done everything that was required of them. These are our American neighbors. Those are our American neighbors that sit in Ohio, they are the ones that are in California and, and New York. Those are our neighbors that are in an hour of need. To send them back to the shadows is not only unfeeling, it is un-American.”-30-
02.28.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Speaks Out Against "Bridge Loan" Repeal Congressman created program in 2010 to assist Americans who fall behind in mortgage payments (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a statement today, regarding Republican efforts to repeal the Emergency Homeowner Loan Assistance or “bridge loan” program in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act passed in 2010. The “bridge loan” program, authored by Cummings, offers up to $50,000 interest-free for as long as 24 months; assisting borrowers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own, who are underemployed or who face debilitating medical bills. “Republicans have not submitted a single proposal this year to stem the tide of foreclosures or assist responsible homeowners who are struggling to keep a roof over their heads,” said Cummings. “The complexity of the foreclosure crisis requires a comprehensive approach. This is a small, targeted program that utilizes experienced, state and local regulators and housing counselors who are equipped to ensure that those who benefit from this program receive the necessary support and education to be able to repay the loan they receive and resume paying their mortgage upon expiration of the program. “The program costs taxpayers nothing and provides a significant benefit, preventing foreclosures which otherwise will further depress property values of neighboring homes and communities. I am aghast at the idea that Republicans would seek to destroy this program. It is a chance for all of us to come together to provide a shelter from the storm for those who need it so badly.” Republican Financial Services Committee Chairman Spencer Bachus announced last week that Committee would consider legislation next week to eliminate the bridge loan program, calling it a failure. “Calling this program a failure is unjustifiable,” said Cummings. “It has only been in existence for a few months, with states still in the planning stages, making that label entirely inappropriate. Rather than creating jobs for Americans, helping families out of foreclosure and rebuilding the middle class, my colleagues across the aisle seem interested only in destroying the progress made last year. I know in my heart that we can do better.” -30-
02.24.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Receives Thomas Kennedy AwardCongressman given award to honor former Member of Maryland General Assembly (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, was honored Wednesday evening with the Thomas Kennedy Award, given by the Speaker of the Assembly to, “a former member of the House of Delegates for his or her personal courage and dedication to the principles of liberty and freedom.” “I believe that those who take the oath of public office rarely show courage in our work; we are simply doing our job,” said Cummings in his prepared remarks. “Our men and women who are fighting right now in Afghanistan and Iraq are deserving of this award. They show incredible courage each and every day. Those who serve our nation in the Peace Corps, with USAID, and those who fight the same battles for basic human decency and progress here in Maryland, whether they are firefighters or police, or schoolteachers, they all deserve this award as well. “Their courage in public service is unmatched. However, because I am the one receiving this award, I can promise them that I will redouble my fight to reach the goals I have always sought during my service. I will work my hardest, to do my best for them. I do this because I believe that we were not placed in this life to live only for ourselves, we are here to respect each other, help each other, and lift each other up in life.” Cummings joined past recipients of the award that include former Senator Paul Sarbanes and Senator Benjamin Cardin along with former Governor Harry Hughes and former Secretary of State Tyras Athey. The award was presented by Speaker Mike Busch at the Buffet Dinner of The Speaker's Society. -30-
02.23.2011	Cummings Joins Treasury Department To Announce Millions in Tax Credits for Maryland (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, will join the Department of Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund) Director Donna J. Gambrell Thursday, to announce $118 million in tax credits for local businesses. These credits are part of the New Market Tax Credit National Award Program. The award will be announced at Humanim, a nonprofit organization that provides workforce development services to low-income individuals and was a beneficiary of the New Market Tax Credit. Four Baltimore-area businesses will be receiving tax credits under the program to assist the creation and expansion of organizations such as Humanim. Three of these organizations are in the Seventh Congressional District. Of all States, Maryland ranks sixth highest for tax allocations for this award round and 5th by number of awards. WHAT: Announcement of $118 million in New Markets Tax Credit allocations WHO: Congressman Elijah E. Cummings Donna J. Gambrell, Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Director Award Recipients WHEN: Thursday, February 24th at 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Humanim Inc., 1701 North Gay Street Baltimore, MD 21213-2523 -30-
02.23.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Welcomes Investment In Hunger PreventionCongressman pleased that fewer Baltimore-area children will go without food. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, was pleased to learn today of a new initiative created by the United States Department of Agriculture, intended to increase community food access. The “Hunger-Free Communities Grants” include a $923,812 grant to the Maryland Governor’s Office for Children in Baltimore. This project will help Maryland increase participation in the National School Breakfast Program, the Summer Food Service Program that provides meals to hungry kids in the summer, and improve access to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. “Our children are the living messages we send to a future we will never see,” said Cummings. “Without proper nutrition, we are starting our children out on a pathway that is designed to end in failure. Studies have shown that nutrition affects so much more than the feeling in a child’s belly. Proper nutrition is critical to physical growth, mental acuity, and the ability of students to function properly and learn to their fullest potential in school. We must begin rebuilding our nation from the bottom up. That process begins by ensuring that our future generations have the possibility to be the greatest Americans they possibly can be. This grant will help lead many children who live in the shadows into the light of that possibility.” Although Maryland is one of the wealthiest states in the nation, nearly 1 in 10 households in Maryland faces a struggle against hunger. The high cost of living in Maryland contributes to the many families choosing between food and their housing, transportation and utility bills. Many children go without meals and parents wonder if they will have enough food to last until their next paycheck. Childhood hunger is influenced by a combination of three deficits: resources, access and information. The Governor’s Office for Children (GOC), on behalf of the Partnership to End Childhood Hunger in Maryland (The Partnership), is being awarded a two-year implementation grant. GOC will work with applying partners Catholic Charities, Maryland Department of Human Resources, Maryland Food Bank, Maryland Hunger Solutions, Maryland State Department of Education and SHARE Food Network on behalf of the Partnership. The series of grants, which total $4.98 million of investment in 14 communities, will work to end hunger and improve the nutrition of low-income Americans. Authorized by the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, the grants fund research, planning, and activities designed to improve access to nutrition assistance for those in need. -30-
02.18.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Response To Republican Continuing Resolution (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today issued a statement following the passage of H.R. 1, the Fiscal Year Continuing Appropriations Act for FY 2011 created by Republicans: “Unacceptable,” said Cummings. Cummings continued, “This continuing resolution is an abomination. At a time when cuts needs to be made precisely to avoid compromising both the recovery of our economy and the future of education and innovation in this nation, Republicans have cut a wide swath through the commitment we have made to the people of this nation. “Despite the fact that we read the Constitution on our first day this session, I see complete ignorance in this bill for the Preamble. While we have provided enough funding for common defense to generously defend a dozen other countries that combine to quadruple our size, we are woefully inadequate at promoting the general welfare of American families. We must not only defend our people against foreign enemies, but against those here at home as well, enemies like poverty, crime, starvation and cold. With this bill, we have failed. To even have this bill come before this House is an embarrassment.” -30-
02.18.2011	Cummings Urges Strong “Gainful Employment” Rule OGR Ranking Member joins with other Members in letter to Secretary of Education, encouraging protection of “for-profit” students. Read the text of the Letter (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today was joined by Congressman Michael Honda (CA-15), Congressman Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-7), Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), Congressman Keith Ellison (MN-5) and other Representatives in sending a letter to Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, asking the Secretary to implement a strong “Gainful Employment” rule, to provide oversight on the “for-profit” education industry. “While many proprietary universities contribute to a robust higher education sector, I am gravely concerned that unscrupulous actors in the industry are limiting students’ access to opportunity by leaving them with debt they cannot pay off and little hope for professional fulfillment,” Cummings said in the letter. “Available data indicate that too many students are not getting a return on their investment at some proprietary universities, and are instead finding themselves worse off when they leave these programs than when they began their course of study.” In 2009, proprietary institutions received $24 billion in Title IV federal loan dollars and federal Pell Grant funds, accounting for nearly 90 percent of the revenue of some schools. Students at for-profit schools represented only 10 percent of the higher education sector last year but, the industry received 25 percent of total federal loan dollars. "I strongly support the gainful employment rules which will protect students from fraud that adversely impacts the low income and minority population,” said Rep. Honda. “Low income and minority students are increasingly concentrated in for-profit institutions and one in five students who attend for-profit schools default on their loans within three years, far in excess of the national average. In 2008 - 2009, the federal government invested over $4 billion in grant aid to students at for-profit institutions. With this level of public investment, the department has a fiduciary responsibility to make sure its investment is being administered properly and the proposed gainful employment rule will accomplish just that." The loan default rate among students at for-profit institutions is nearly double that of students attending public and private non-profit schools, and graduation rates are much lower at for-profit schools compared to those at public and private non-profit schools. Congresswoman Moore said, “Students should have every chance to succeed. With higher education costing more and more, we must ensure that students get a return on their investment. And gainful employment regulations will help do just that.” Students at public and private non-profit schools on average borrow less often, and borrow in smaller amounts, than students at for-profit institutions. “If your business model isn’t based on bilking the public, you've got nothing to worry about,” said Rep. Keith Ellison. “I fully support the Administration’s rule to ensure that we’re not saddling students with unnecessary debt and leaving the taxpayers holding the bag while private corporations make off like bandits.” The letter also points out that the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights wrote to the Department of Education to emphasize that the proposed Gainful Employment rule stands to benefit students of color, low-income students, female students, and armed service members and veterans. Each of these groups is heavily enrolled in for-profit schools. “This isn’t about shutting down successful schools or denying students their choice of education,” Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva said. “It’s about making sure schools don’t sell degrees that turn out to be worth less than students paid for them. Especially as we work toward economic recovery, expensive pieces of paper that don’t prepare students for good careers are not something taxpayers can afford to subsidize. The Department of Education has crafted a good rule, and I sincerely hope it goes forward intact.” -30-
02.07.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Recognizes Black History (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released a statement today, recognizing February as Black History Month, by recognizing an important moment in Black history. “This month, we celebrate the 35th anniversary of the observance of Black History Month,” said Cummings. “However, I find that it is rare that our children are educated with the intricate details that African Americans have woven through the tapestry of our nation’s history. Today is the anniversary of an important date for those of us who work in the nation’s capital. It was on this date in 1791 that an inventor, surveyor, mathematician, and astronomer from Maryland, Benjamin Banneker, began the survey for what would become Washington, DC. Banneker was from a rural area outside Baltimore that would eventually become Ellicott City. “Banneker’s is not necessarily the best known name in American history, but his work was a critical step in showing White America that African Americans would not always be servants, and could not always be lumped into one hopeless stereotype. His noble, productive, all-American life was filled with success and is a tremendous example to all of those who came after him.” -30-
02.07.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Team Maryland Holds Press Conference Honoring Deamonte Driver Congressman and both Maryland Senators join to remind Marylanders about the importance of oral health (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, joined Maryland Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin and Congressman John Sarbanes Monday morning, for a press conference honoring the fourth anniversary of the death of Deamonte Driver, the 12-year old Maryland boy who died after an untreated tooth infection spread to his brain. Cummings, Mikulski, Sarbanes and Cardin were joined by Secretary of Health and Mental Hygiene, Joshua M. Sharfstein, M.D. and Maryland Dental Action Coalition Chair Beth Lowe. Following the vote in the Senate against repeal of the Affordable Care Act last week, the Maryland legislators stressed the importance healthcare reform will play, particularly for those in underserved communities. “Deamonte is a tragic story to me, one that brings tears to my eyes,” said Cummings. “Deamonte lived, like so many do, in the shadows of our society. His mother needed a single dentist who would take Medicaid to perform an 80 dollar extraction. She could not find one, and her 12-year-old boy died. Deamonte’s death is a blight on the history of a nation in which everyone is supposedly created equal. This young man could not control where he was born, and into what circumstances, nor could he control the fact that his mother could not find healthcare. It was for Deamonte, and families like his, that I insisted on legislation in the Affordable Care Act to improve pediatric dentistry for those in underserved communities.” Some of the improvements in the new healthcare law championed by Cummings include: · $30 million for oral primary healthcare workforce improvements; · $15 million for fifteen five-year demonstration grants for alternative oral healthcare workforce providers to serve in rural and other underserved areas; · $5 million for an oral health public education campaign; · $8 million for dental caries disease management grants; · $15 million for school-based sealant programs; and · $30 million to strengthen oral health surveillance and infrastructure. “Deamonte Driver’s passing four years ago was a national tragedy that served as a wake-up call reminding all of us about the link between oral health and overall health,” said Senator Cardin, who sponsored the amendment to the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization bill making dental care a guaranteed benefit within the program. “It also became the catalyst that led to passage of a guaranteed dental benefit in CHIP in 2009, and the oral health provisions guaranteeing dental coverage as an essential benefit for children in the Affordable Care Act.” In response to Deamonte’s death, Maryland instituted a series of provocative dental reforms recommended by a Dental Action Committee convened by then DHMH Secretary, John Colmers that addressed all aspects of the services he did not receive. The reforms recommended by the Dental Action Committee established a new roadmap that the Department and its partners throughout the state embarked upon to permanently and effectively address the dental access crisis that existed in Maryland. "Deamonte Driver’s death was tragic but his legacy doesn’t have to be," said Congressman John Sarbanes. "For the past four years, we have worked in Congress to expand coverage and access to dental health care for children so that no child should have to suffer without adequate dental care." “This is a very emotional and poignant day for Marylanders. Deamonte’s death is a tragedy that should never have happened. That’s why I am going to keep fighting to make sure it never happens to another child in America,” Senator Barbara A. Mikulski said. “In the four years since Deamonte’s death, we’ve made Maryland one of the best states for oral health care for children. Maryland was one of eight states recognized for best practices in Medicaid dental coverage. And I was proud to put $1.2 million in the federal checkbook last year for a statewide oral health education campaign.” Access to Medicaid dental services has increased in Maryland to 43.8% (CY 2009) from 32.9% (CY 2007) in just 2 years with many more dentists (400) participating in Medicaid. “Since the death of Deamonte Driver, Maryland has made tremendous progress in meeting the dental needs of children,” said DHMH Secretary Joshua M. Sharfstein, M.D. However, our job is not done." Maryland has become a leading state in the country to increase children’s access to dental care and achieve a dental home. In 2010, Maryland was one of only six states in the country to receive a “A” grade from the Pew Charitable Trust for oral health for children. The press conference took place at Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene headquarters. -30-
02.04.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Recognizes Continued Economic Growth Congressman frustrated with slow job growth, but happy to see Americans returning to work. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and senior member of the Joint Economic Committee, today released a statement, following the Bureau of Labor Statistics Report that the unemployment rate fell to 9 percent in the month of January. “Though the incredible stretch of inclement weather hampered hiring last month, the private sector added jobs again,” said Cummings. “It has been a year now that private companies in our nation have been putting Americans back to work, thanks to the tax credits and other incentives we passed in the 111th Congress. I hope that my colleagues who are currently in the Majority will see this continued improvement and help bring this Congress together to pass more of these job-creating policies. “There is nothing political about putting Americans back to work. We have one choice if we are going to continue to be the greatest country in the world; we must compete. That means as many of us working as efficiently and effectively as possible to create the innovation that President Obama spoke about in his State of the Union address. Americans have always done big things, and now is not the time for us to think small. We must continue to do everything we can to rebuild the middle class and make sure every American who wants to put in a good day’s work can get a good day’s pay.” Thanks to Democrats’ “Making it in America” efforts, manufacturing jobs grew again, by 49,000 positions. In total, private industry added 50,000 jobs in January, adjusted seasonally. Since February of last year, 93,000 Americans each month have either found jobs or returned to work. -30-
02.02.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Holds Press Conference Honoring Deamonte Driver Joins Oral Health Advocates To Stress the Need to Keep Health Care Reform Intact (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, will host a press conference Monday, February 7, 2011, to honor the fourth anniversary of the passing of Deamonte Driver, the 12-year old Maryland boy who died after an untreated tooth infection spread to his brain, and to stress why healthcare reform must not be repealed. “Our nation must not abandon Americans like Deamonte any longer. The Affordable Care Act we passed last Congress provides for those like Deamonte and his family who struggle to survive in the shadows of our society. We must ensure that every American child has a fighting chance and access to quality health care. Deamonte taught us that, in the few years he had on this Earth.” Cummings will join national, state and local healthcare leaders to address what is being done to ensure that residents have access to quality oral healthcare. WHAT: Press Conference on with Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Senators Barbara Mikulski and Ben Cardin, Secretary of Health and Mental Hygiene, Dr. Joshua Sharfstein, Maryland Dental Action Coalition Chair, Beth Lowe WHEN: Monday, February 7, 2011 at 10:30 a.m. WHERE: Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene headquarters 201 West Preston Street, Baltimore, MD, 21201. -30-
02.02.2011	Cummings Welcomes Federal Reserve DecisionCongressman wrote letter requesting preservation of consumer rights (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, was pleased this week with the decision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve to avoid finalizing a rulemaking that would have eliminated an important consumer protection currently provided by the Truth In Lending Act (TILA). Cummings wrote a letter, co-signed by more than a dozen other Members, requesting that the Fed reconsider the proposed regulation to alter the right of rescission provided under TILA, which was created under the Consumer Credit Protection Act of 1968. The specific portion of TILA in question allows consumers to rescind, or cancel, a commercial transaction, for up to three years if the lender or creditor failed to disclose to the consumer all of the required information under TILA. In some circles, it is also referred to as the “lemon law,” because it is frequently used to enable the return of a faulty automobile. However, the law can also apply to mortgages and serves as one of the most critical protections for borrowers who are facing foreclosure and were victims of predatory lending when they received their mortgage. Under current law, when a consumer exercises this extended right of rescission, the creditor’s security interest in the home becomes void and the creditor is required to take action necessary to reflect the termination of the security interest. Once the creditor has fulfilled its obligations, the consumer is required to give back the loan amount to the creditor. The proposed rule would have removed this primary mechanism for ensuring compliance by the creditor by requiring the consumer to give back the loan amount prior the termination of the creditor’s security interest. “I am pleased that the Federal Reserve understands the importance of the consumer protection standards currently present in TILA,” said Cummings. “Congress wrote this law with the intention of providing consumers a remedy in the event their rights were violated by lenders or sellers. Had we desired the law to be written in the manner the rulemaking would have created, we would have written that way. Instead, the protections in the law are exactly what our homeowners need during this time of economic upheaval.” This law exists because Congress felt it was urgent not only to place consumers in stronger bargaining positions relative to creditors, but also to provide important tools to ensure creditor compliance. Congress intended to reward honest lenders and impose costs on unscrupulous and careless lenders because of the costs that their actions impose on the marketplace. -30-
02.01.2011	Cummings To Host Town Hall Meetings Interactive sessions will help area residents survive economic downturn. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, announced that he would hold several town hall meetings in the Seventh District. “Many people in Maryland continue to suffer during difficult economic times,” said Cummings. In March, I will host interactive sessions entitled, ‘Weathering the Storm in Tough Economic Times.’ Our citizens can learn about services offered by the State of Maryland and the federal government, and how to access them.” Representatives from various federal, state and local agencies will provide information about their resources and how people can access them. The sessions will take place: March 5th in Howard County: 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. at Howard Community College (RCF-400), 10901 Little Patuxent Parkway in Columbia. March 23rd in Baltimore City: 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Enoch Pratt Free Library Main Branch, 400 Cathedral Street in Baltimore. March 28th in Baltimore County: 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Community College of Baltimore County, Building Q Auditorium, 800 South Rolling Road in Catonsville. Contact Hope Williams at 410-685-9199 for more information. -30-
01.31.2011	Cummings Requests Industry Responses to Chairman Issa’s Regulation Letters (Washington, DC) – Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Ranking Member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today sent letters to more than 100 industry representatives and other organizations, requesting copies of letters they sent in response to requests by Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) to identify regulations that negatively impact job growth. The Chairman has repeatedly refused to share these industry responses with Democrats, despite repeated requests. (See January 24, 2011, letter). Instead, Chairman Issa has stated that he will withhold these documents until February 11, when he plans to release them publicly along with a Republican staff analysis. He stated: “I have chosen to have my staff focus on receiving, organizing, and analyzing the responses to these letters. I expect to be able to make an initial analysis, as well as all responses received as of today, public no later than February 11, 2011.” In his letters today, Rep. Cummings explained that he is contacting these industry organizations independently to request copies of their responses. In addition, he stated: “I fully support bipartisan efforts to improve federal regulations to increase job growth while preserving the core safeguards these regulations were intended to protect,” said Rep. Cummings. “But since Chairman Issa has refused to provide Democrats with copies of the industry responses he has received to date, we have no choice but to request them ourselves. Withholding Committee records is not only a violation of House rules, but a waste of time that could have been avoided with the smallest degree of bipartisan cooperation.” Please click here for an example of the letter Rep. Cummings sent today. -30-
01.27.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds Department Of Transportation Rulemaking Final rule will encourage and assist disadvantaged business enterprises. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a senior member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, today applauded the United States Department of Transportation (USDOT), after their Department announced a final rulemaking concerning Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (DBEs). DBEs are businesses operated by minorities or economically disadvantaged owners. The rulemaking, which will take effect on February 28, will encourage and assist these businesses to compete for, and secure, government contracts by requiring greater accountability from state DOTs for their good faith efforts to meet their DBE goals and by making it easier for a DBE to be certified in multiple states. Critically, this rulemaking raises the personal net worth cap that applies to DBE owners; this cap had not been adjusted since 1989. “As we rebuild America from the pavement up, it is critical that every American has the opportunity to help in that effort,” said Cummings. “I commend Secretary Ray LaHood and his staff for creating a rule that will encourage Americans in disadvantaged businesses that may not think they have a chance to compete with the big firms, to show why the underdog has always been so popular with Americans. These are firms that can work efficiently and effectively, and they deserve the chance to serve the American people. Implementation of these rules will ensure that the USDOT’s DBE program responds effectively to current, real-world conditions.” Cummings has consistently worked with DOT and other agencies through his work on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure to improve DBE participation and contracting. The DOT created the DBE program with three goals: · To ensure that small DBEs can compete fairly for federally funded transportation-related projects. · To ensure that only eligible firms participate as DBEs. · To assist DBE firms in competing outside the DBE Program. -30-
01.25.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds State Of The Union Address Congressman joins President Obama in calling for education, innovation improvements. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform echoed the statements made by President Obama tonight in his State of the Union address. “I am very proud to have been able to witness a speech that I believe will help transform our nation,” said Cummings. “Thanks to much of the legislation passed by the 111th Congress, our economy is getting stronger. However, without the innovation by American companies and the improvements in our education system discussed by the President, the state of our Union will not be strengthened. “I know that we may not see the immediate result of these improvements, however our children will. These children are the living messages we send to a future we will never see. I share the optimism the President shared this evening, about our national journey toward improving this future for our children and children yet unborn.” -30-
01.24.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Honored To Be Named To Transportation And Infrastructure Committee Congressman pleased to continue to serve on prestigious committee. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, today released a statement, after being named to the Subcommittees on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation and Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials. Cummings served as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation in the 111th Congress. “Though my new duties on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform mean that I will not be able to be Ranking Member on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, I am incredibly happy to continue to serve on this critical subcommittee,” said Cummings. “My work with the United States Coast Guard and the maritime community provided some of the most fulfilling opportunities I have had as a Representative. It allowed me to realize the crucial importance of the Coast Guard to our nation’s security and to the regulation of our merchant shipping. “Our national economy is built on the backs of the mariners, truck drivers, pilots and cargo handlers who move products from manufacturer to market each and every day. We must continue to invest in the infrastructure and multi-modal transportation options that can make them more efficient and effective, while improving the lives of all Americans. I am proud to continue to help aid that process.” -30-
01.19.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Votes To Keep Healthcare Reform Congressman elects to continue preventive care for 90,000 Maryland seniors, other benefits. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today voted against H.R. 2, the Republican-sponsored bill to destroy the Patient’s Bill of Rights, along with all other improvements created by the Affordable Care Act. The repeal of the Affordable Care Act would allow insurance companies to deny coverage to hundreds of thousands of Maryland residents who suffer from pre-existing conditions. For many women, their gender is considered one of these conditions, particularly if they are pregnant or have been the victim of domestic violence. “I talk to men and women every day in my District, and they tell me that without the landmark reform passed in the 111th Congress, they will be back on the rolls of the uninsurable,” said Cummings. “This is America, and we must do better by our people. The Affordable Care Act created a means for millions of Americans to gain access to the greatest healthcare in the world; it fixed the Medicare “donut hole,” which was a gaping chasm in the promise we have made to our senior citizens; it allows parents to continue to protect their children until they can afford their own insurance; and it gives tax credits to small businesses, so their employees will be healthier, more efficient and effective workers. To stop these benefits and destroy this progress is reprehensible to me. I will never vote to put Big Insurance back between the American people and their healthcare providers.” Full repeal, which is favored by less than 20 percent of American voters, would roll back consumer protections for 403,000 Marylanders who have health insurance through their employer or the market for private insurance. It would also eliminate tax credits for up to 14,000 small businesses and 147,000 families. At a time when those on a fixed income are already feeling the pinch, it would increase prescription drug costs for 4,700 Seventh District seniors who hit the Part D drug “donut hole” and would deny new preventive care benefits to 90,000 seniors in the District. Repeal would hit the Seventh District in other ways as well, increasing the costs of early retiree coverage for up to 8,300 early retirees; eliminating insurance options for 2,300 uninsured young adults and outright eliminating insurance for 30,000 people. Effects would not stop with insurance customers, Johns Hopkins and the other world class hospitals in the District would see costs for uncompensated care jump by $122 million annually. -30-
01.18.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Sends Session-Opening Letter To Issa Ranking Member sets out overarching approach to responsible Committee oversight. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), the new top-ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, wrote to Chairman Darrell Issa today to outline his overarching approach to the Committee’s oversight activities in the 112th Congress. “I am looking forward to being your partner in responsible oversight that serves the public by eliminating wasteful spending and making government work more effectively and efficiently,” said Cummings in the letter. “But I am equally determined to resist any efforts to use the power and resources of the Committee for ill-advised purposes.” “Last year, you wrote an op-ed in USA Today stating: ‘It’s very clear that the American people do not want a divided government hell-bent on fighting one another in an attempt to score cheap political points. They want a government with checks and balances, run by adults who are up to the task of solving the very real problems confronting our nation.' “I strongly agree with these sentiments. I want to join you in conducting responsible oversight to ensure accountability in government and effective operation of our nation’s laws. I also agree with President Obama’s statement last week that ‘a more civil and honest public discourse can help us face up to the challenges of our nation.’ Together, I hope we can elevate the level of discourse not only on our Committee, but across the nation.” Cummings raised concerns, however, about unsubstantiated statements made by Chairman Issa and his staff, as well as questions about the use of taxpayer dollars to fund “Oversight Productions” and “Issa Enterprises,” two new sub-units of the Committee created by Chairman Issa that engage in activities that appear to have little to do with official Committee business. Rep. Cummings concluded: “As Ranking Member, my goals are straightforward: I want the Committee to engage in oversight that is regarded as serious rather than dismissed as silly or absurd; to establish strong predicates for investigations rather than making unsubstantiated allegations that waste taxpayer funds; to use Committee resources to inform and educate the American people rather than attacking opponents; and to conduct comprehensive, balanced investigations that seek out the truth rather than launching one-sided inquiries designed to fulfill predetermined outcomes.” -30-
01.18.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today joined with Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) in sending a letter to President Barack Obama, requesting appropriate funding of the oral health initiatives present in the landmark Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. “[W]e write to respectfully ask you to include funding as authorized by the PPACA for the oral health provisions in your Fiscal Year (FY) 2012 budget request,” the letter reads in part. “While the inclusion of significant dental provisions in the PPACA is a monumental accomplishment, the promise of these programs will go unfulfilled without adequate funding.” Bingaman and Cummings specifically ask that the following improvements be adequately funded: · $30 million for oral primary healthcare workforce improvements; · $15 million for fifteen five-year demonstration grants for alternative oral healthcare workforce providers to serve in rural and other underserved areas; · $5 million for an oral health public education campaign; · $8 million for dental caries disease management grants; · $15 million for school-based sealant programs; and · $30 million to strengthen oral health surveillance and infrastructure. The letter was co-signed by two Democratic Senators and seven Democratic Representatives. -30-
01.16.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Urges Remembrance Of Dr. King (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) today released a statement on the occasion of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day: “Martin Luther King Jr. was a seminal figure in American history,” said Cummings. “He was not simply an African American who paved a critical part of the path toward Civil Rights, nor was he just a leader who helmed a movement and brought those who believed closer to their goal. His was a greater quest and a greater presence than can be categorized or labeled, and it is for this that we honor him. He did not seek anything small or simple. “Instead, his goal was a nation that represented the ideals of our Founders, and of all men who struggled for freedom and liberty both before and since our nation’s founding. His vision, and the example he set in following that vision, will be the guideposts to all who seek his Dream, knowing they will never be close to equaling the Dreamer. “President Obama has continued our national commitment to the Day of Service that honors Dr. King. I share the belief that Dr. King espoused when he said, ‘All labor that uplifts humanity has dignity and importance and should be undertaken with painstaking excellence.’ Volunteering and service to America uplifts all of us, and therefore I ask all Marylanders to join in this Day of Service and serve with the painstaking excellence that Dr. King’s memory demands.” Congressman Cummings recommends that interested Marylanders visit https://MLKDay.gov to learn more about the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service. On Monday, January 17, Americans of all ages and backgrounds will come together to improve lives, bridge social barriers, and move our nation closer to the “Beloved Community” that Dr. King envisioned. -30-
01.12.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Congressman Elijah E. CummingsSpeech regarding Tucson shootingsJanuary 12, 2011 Mr./Madam Speaker: Like every speaker today, I rise with a heavy heart. Our friend Gabrielle Giffords lies in a hospital bed, fighting for her life. At the same time, dozens are in mourning for those killed in a senseless slaughter, including JudgeJohn Roll and our own Gabe Zimmerman, Congresswoman Giffords’ director of public outreach. We join them in a grieving process that is painful beyond words. To those families, particularly that of Gabe, who reached out in Gabby’s voice each and every day, we weep for your loss and know of the constant ache left in your hearts by the sudden loss of those you loved; and we are blessed to join you in the celebration of their lives. And as we mourn those who were lost, we triumph, with equal emotion, in miracles. By the mercy of God and the swift hands of our medical heroes, Gabrielle Giffords and many of those wounded by this madman have been saved. When I heard of this tragedy, I immediately asked a question that each of us here must have wondered dozens of times. How could anyone hate, or seek to harm, this wonderful public servant, this beautiful person, who has never spoken a cross word nor showed a downcast expression throughout her time in this House? Though these answers are painfully slow in coming, I pray her return to the warm embrace of her family will be swift. More selfishly, because she is my friend, and because I see in her the pure heart of a servant, I pray she will return to this chamber as soon as possible, to continue her work for the people of Arizona, whom she so treasures. Gabby knows at her core that she is an ordinary person called to an extraordinary mission. Gabby, you are a champion among champions, a friend among friends, and a fighter among fighters for the common good. We are all pulling for you. Get well soon Gabby, we can’t wait for you to come back to us. I yield back.
01.12.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Statement On Congresswoman Giffords Shooting (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today released a statement, following the attempted assassination of Arizona Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and the deaths surrounding that attempt: “Congresswoman Giffords is battling for her life today, and we have lost several Americans in a senseless act of violence,” said Cummings. “For this to happen today is beyond my comprehension. Part of the pride we all felt this week was due to the peaceful transfer of power that has been a hallmark of our nation. Now, that bedrock has been shaken. “It was my immense pleasure to sit beside Gabrielle Giffords in the House Armed Services Committee of the 110th Congress. I got to know her, to understand that passion she feels for her family, for her constituents, and for the people of this nation. I am praying for Gabrielle, for her family, for the families of her staff and those killed and for all those who have been touched by Gabby and who join me in prayers for her recovery.” -30-
01.12.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Requests Oversight And Government Reform Hearing To Examine National Nursing Shortage Incoming Ranking Member calls on incoming Chairman to investigate critical shortfall in U.S. healthcare. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), incoming Ranking Member for the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today called on incoming Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) to hold hearings as soon as possible to examine the nursing shortage slowing healthcare delivery throughout the nation. The letter reads in part: “Despite these tough economic times, the medical profession continues to grow at rates that exceed those prevalent in other industries in America -- and the short supply of nurses does not result from low interest in the field. Indeed, in 2009, U.S. nursing schools turned away 54,991 applicants from undergraduate and graduate nursing programs due to insufficient capacity. “Efforts are underway to expand educational programs in the nursing field. In my home state of Maryland, for example, the Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing and Stevenson University have created accelerated graduate degree programs designed to make it more convenient for nurses to go back to school and, in turn, to use the nursing skills they acquire to begin training new nurses. Other schools in my district are working to create new undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral nursing programs.” In December 2009, workforce analysts with the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) projected that more than 581,500 new Registered Nurse (RN) positions will be created through 2018, which would increase the size of the RN workforce by 22 percent. According to the BLS, in the coming years, RN employment is projected to increase at a rate higher than most other occupations , as demand continues to increase. However, a substantial shortage in RNs will still exist. Cummings’ letter continued, “It is my hope that Congress will take every available opportunity to support the expansion of nursing education programs to enable the industry to successfully meet the nursing care needs of the American people.” Earlier in December, Cummings asked that Issa dedicate the first hearings of the 112th Congress to examine the foreclosure crisis. Cummings applauds the incoming Chairman’s commitment to working across the aisle to help protect Americans, and looks forward to working with Congressman Issa to accomplish the Committee’s goal of making government operations more efficient and effective for American taxpayers. -30-
01.12.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Remembers Haiti QuakeCongressman prays for continue recovery for the island nation. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, today released a statement on the one-year anniversary of the earthquake in Haiti. “One year ago today, a vicious natural disaster struck the island nation of Haiti,” said Cummings. “Since that date, so much aid has been offered, so many volunteer hours have been delivered and so many are still suffering, homeless and mourning their lost families. “Today, as we look at Haiti, we see a nation still devastated, still crippled and still fighting for its national life. However, in that same vision, we see a proud nation of men and women who are committed to fighting the battle against natural destruction with a supernatural willingness to rebuild their beloved country. I continue to pray for that recovery, and I ask today, on the one-year anniversary, that Americans not take a single moment, but the entire day, to consider both the tragedy and the blessings that have been felt in Haiti, and to do everything they can to help those blessings continue to overwhelm the tragedy, as we help Haiti regain its place in the world community.” The 7.0 magnitude quake that struck Haiti in 2010 killed more than 200,000 people and left millions homeless. President Bill Clinton has served as the United Nations Special Envoy to Haiti and continues to help lead relief efforts. Those interested in donating to the continued relief efforts can visit the American Red Cross at redcross.org -30-
01.11.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Continues Fight To Protect ConsumersCongressman joins with colleagues to ask Fed to preserve consumer rights (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, joined with several colleagues in the House of Representatives recently to send a letter to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. The letter addresses part of the Truth In Lending Act (TILA), which was created under the Consumer Credit Protection Act of 1968. The specific law allows consumers to rescind, or cancel, a commercial transaction, within three days of the finalization of that transaction, for any reason. In some circles, it is also referred to as the “lemon law,” because it is frequently used to enable the return of a faulty automobile. However, the law can also apply to mortgages. The letter requests that the Board of Governors reconsider a rescission proposal offered by FRB Docket R-1390. The proposal would alter a consumer protection scheme set forth by Section 1635 of TILA. Current law provides an extended right of rescission for up to three years in cases in which the lender or creditor violated TILA by failing to make required disclosures. When this extended right of rescission is exercised, as in the three-day window, the consumer is no longer liable for any finance charge or any security interest. Once the creditor takes action necessary to reflect the termination of the security interest, the consumer is required to give back the loan amount to the creditor. This law exists because Congress felt it was urgent not only to place consumers in stronger bargaining positions relative to creditors, but also to provide important tools to ensure creditor compliance. Congress intended to reward honest lenders and impose costs on unscrupulous and careless lenders because of the costs that their actions impose on the marketplace. The proposed rule would change this right by voiding the security interest of the creditor, and requiring the creditor to take the necessary steps to reflect the cancellation of its security interest only after the customer returned the money or property. This would remove one of the primary mechanisms for ensuring compliance by the creditor. As Cummings’ letter to the Board of Governors states, “If Congress wished for the debtor to tender the money or property before obligating the creditor to take the necessary steps to void its security interest, Congress would have not needed to act. By departing from common law rescission, Congress made a deliberate choice to shift the rights and obligations of the parties in covered credit transactions.” The letter continues, “The Board…should remember that TILA is a consumer protection law and therefore is required to be construed liberally in favor of the debtor.” In a letter to his colleagues, Cummings said, “Our modern day marketplace has literally collapsed under the weight of reckless lending practices. Since 2007, our nation has experienced 2.5 million foreclosures. Currently, four million homeowners are at risk of foreclosure, and millions more are “underwater,” owing more on their mortgages than their homes are worth. As noted by numerous experts, the rescission process laid out … is not only a critical tool to enforce the strict disclosure requirements in the Truth in Lending Act, it is the single most effective tool that homeowners have to avoid predatory loans and stop foreclosures that stem from transactions in which lenders failed to make required disclosures. Now is hardly the time to shift compliance responsibilities away from lenders and creditors, and onto consumers.” The letter requesting the Board of Governors to reconsider the proposal was signed by Cummings and 14 co-signers. -30-
01.07.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Pleased With Drop In Unemployment Congressman happy to see healthcare sector continuing to lead the way in American Recovery. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and senior member of the Joint Economic Committee, today released a statement, following the Bureau of Labor Statistics Report that 103,000 more Americans have found work, sending the unemployment rate to 9.4 percent. “I am so happy for the families of those Americans who have returned to work,” said Cummings. “When you lose your job, your self-worth can suffer, your family can fall into financial trouble, and you can feel that you have lost your place as a contributing member of society. Now, these men and women are helping to rebuild the American middle class and powering our continued recovery. “Clearly, there are still far too many Americans unemployed. We must continue to strive to put them back to work. I will work hard in my new position as Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to create bipartisan efforts to continue this growth. “I would like to particularly draw attention to the healthcare field. Since Congress passed landmark healthcare reform, healthcare jobs have grown by leaps and bounds. Last month alone, 36,000 jobs were added in healthcare fields. We have created the need for doctors, nurses, physician’s assistants and others to serve the 35 million Americans who will be insured thanks to this reform. Now, these opportunities have led to job creation we need so badly. To stop healthcare reform, to explode our deficit in a time of economic instability and to destroy both the need for jobs and the healthcare those workers will provide, is unthinkable to me.” -30-
01.06.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Questions Reading Of “Amended” Constitution Congressman believes Constitution is not only a document of law, but of history. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today questioned the unilateral decision made by the majority party to read an “amended” version of the Constitution. “The Constitution is the basis of our laws, but it is also a historical document whose text demonstrates the potential for growth present from the beginnings of our nation,” said Cummings. “While portions of the Constitution have been amended, those portions have not been deleted, norhave they been excised from history. Our Founders provided for amendment because they understood that times would change and that our laws should be able to be amended to respond to emergent situations. They understood that their work would not be finished in their lifetimes, or in the lifetime of any American. It is work we continue today. Benjamin Franklin acknowledged as much when he remarked that Americans had been given, ‘A Republic, if you can keep it.’ “The adoption of the U.S. Constitution marked the birth of the greatest experiment in government known to man. To not read the full document, including all text that was later amended, is to fail to acknowledge the struggle our nation has constantly fought, within and without, to ‘keep’ our Republic. It is a failure to show Americans that while we seek a more perfect union, we do so from imperfect beginnings, through an imperfect history, with an imperfect government created by an imperfect document. We fail to show the American people that imperfection is not to be feared and that our ability to constantly improve on what the Founders gave us is a blessing, not a reason for divisiveness. “We have the ability to change laws made at the time of our founding and to rectify unintended consequences of those laws as we work to continuously improve the lives and futures of the American people. Our nation and our lawmakers are not, and have never been, perfect. But we must never shy away from pride in the journey we have all taken, as a nation, toward our more perfect union.” -30-
01.05.2011	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Sworn In For 112th Congress Congressman begins his eighth term in service of Maryland’s Seventh Congressional District. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today was sworn into office by Speaker of the House John Boehner. Cummings was first elected in 1996. “As I take my oath of office, I think of all the people who helped lead me along this path,” said Cummings. “My parents taught me the value of integrity and hard work, my teachers taught me the importance of constantly studying and bettering myself and the people I meet everyday in the supermarket or on the streets of Baltimore, Columbia, Catonsville and the rest of the District have taught me about the indomitable spirit of the American people and what this country can accomplish when we pull together as one. I thank them for honoring me with this position, where I can help work with my colleagues to help all Americans to work as one, and return our country to the top. I pray daily that I prove worthy of that honor.” -30-
12.24.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Sends Holiday Wishes To Maryland (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today released a statement of holiday wishes: “As we enter this festive holiday weekend, I want to wish all Marylanders a festive, happy and healthy holiday season,” said Cummings. “I am incredibly proud to have served you during this remarkable year, and it is my fondest hope that next year will see an increase in the recovery of our nation’s economy, more of our brothers and sisters in arms returning home to the ones they love, and continued pursuit of the goal of making improving this nation for those who will come after us. “In this time of celebration, I ask that all Marylanders think of everything with which they have been blessed this year, and to consider, in whatever way possible, those who have been less fortunate. Seasons Greetings, and have a Happy New Year!” -30-
12.22.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Pleased To Provide 9/11 First Responders With Healthcare And Compensation Congressman proud to send Zadroga bill to President Obama. (Washington, DC) - Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) voted to send a bill providing 9/11 first responders and survivors with long-term, comprehensive health care and fair economic compensation to the desk of President Obama. Thousands of first responders to Ground Zero, including firefighters, police officers, and other rescue workers, were exposed to dangerous toxins, leaving them with chronic, deadly diseases. H.R. 847, the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act creates a $4.3 billion funding package to ensure that these heroes receive full medical care. “This bill is the absolute least we could do, to provide for those who took our national pride on their shoulders and carried it through the flames of September 11th,” said Cummings. “First responders and volunteers alike, who ran into smoke, ash and debris when others were running away, deserve our support and our thanks. I was ashamed that it took this long to help them, but I am proud of those who rallied this Congress to their side, to provide them with the medical care and treatments that they so sorely need. Leaving Washington without passing this bill would have been unconscionable to me.” Named for James Zadroga, a police officer who died at 34 from respiratory diseases contracted at Ground Zero, the bill provides medical monitoring and treatment to the over 71,000 people exposed to harmful toxins and dust on the scene. The bill also reopens the September 11, 2011 Victim Compensation Fund to provide monetary compensation for those physically injured by the attacks or by response activities and debris removal. The Zadroga bill was the final major piece of legislation brought before the 111th Congress today, prior to the members adjourning. -30-
12.22.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Statement On Congressional Adjournment (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today released a statement on the occasion of the adjournment sine die of the United States House of Representatives. This process dissolves the 111th Congress, and makes way for the 112th Congress to begin in early January. “This has been called the most productive Congress in 50 years,” said Cummings. “I am proud to have been a part of it. This Congress provided the opportunity for health insurance for more than 30 million Americans, we improved regulation on Wall Street for the first time in decades, we created a more efficient student loan process, we helped ensure that women will be paid as much as their male counterparts and we passed multiple pieces of legislation, including the Recovery Act, that ensure that our nation did not fall from a deep recession into a second Great Depression.” Some highlights of the 111th Congress included passage of: THE American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which gave 98% of American workers a tax cut, and began to rebuild America’s road, rail, and water infrastructure, with unprecedented accountability.SMALL BUSINESS JOBS ACT,TEACHER JOBS/STATE AID/CLOSING TAX LOOPHOLES,Student AID & Fiscal Responsibility Act,HIRE Act, CASH FOR CLUNKERS,HEALTH INSURANCE REFORMHealth Care REAUTHORIZATION for 11 Million ChildrenFDA REGULATION OF TOBACCO,CHILD NUTRITION,· FOOD SAFETY, WEAPONS ACQUISITION reform, Wall Street Reform, credit cardholders’ bill of rights,Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay ACT,Veterans Health Care Budget Reform & Transparency Act,FY 2010 DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION,REPEAL OF DON’T ASK, DON’T TELL,Caregivers & Veterans Omnibus Health Services “After all our success, I am deeply disappointed that the climate of fear and anger in our nation created an atmosphere in which so many Americans distrust their Representatives, and that many of my colleagues, who did so much of the heavy lifting, will not return to this House. I am also deeply honored to have served with so many wonderful people who will be leaving the House, either through defeat or retirement. “The next two years will be a tough fight to defend the strides we have made. We saw the incredible work Americans can do when they come together as one and I am willing and anxious to defend the results of that work. In the coming session, I hope that my colleagues across the aisle will understand that government is neither the cause nor solution of our problems; rather it is simply a group of Americans chosen to help lead our country, bringing it together to solve problems and to build a better future. When we return in January, I look forward to beginning that process anew.” -30-
12.21.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Requests That First Oversight And Government Reform Hearing Examine Foreclosure Fraud Incoming Ranking Member calls on next Oversight and Government Reform Chairman to investigate complaints. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Ranking Member-designee for the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, wrote today to the incoming Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) to request that the first hearing in the 112th Congress examine recent and continuing reports of widespread flawed and fraudulent foreclosure practices by the nation’s largest banks. Cummings’ request comes in light of reports of widespread fraud in legal proceedings, as well as recent lawsuits filed by the state attorneys general of Arizona and Nevada alleging potential fraud by at least one bank against homeowners, thereby undermining existing consent decrees between the banks and the states and possibly violating state laws. “Since September 2010, ongoing reports have revealed the widespread utilization of flawed and fraudulent practices, most notably ‘robo-signing,’ throughout the mortgage servicing industry,” the letter reads, in part. “These revelations prompted the nation’s largest mortgage servicers to halt foreclosures in 23 states and conduct internal reviews, and also led all 50 state attorneys general to initiate a joint investigation into these practices. “Recent reports demonstrate that the problems have not subsided and may be more egregious and widespread than initially revealed. [Monday], the Chief Justice of New Jersey’s highest court announced that the state’s courts would stop foreclosures if the banks cannot show that they are following state law when foreclosing. On December 17, the attorneys general of Arizona and Nevada filed a lawsuit against Bank of America, accusing it of engaging in ‘widespread fraud’ by misleading customers with ‘false promises’ about their eligibility for modifications on their home mortgages.” Cummings requested a hearing in part to examine the veracity of these reports and the extent to which existing government programs and provisions of public support are being undermined or abused. Cummings’ letter follows a recent statement given by Congressman Issa in which he said, “The intention is to have our first couple of hearings be those bipartisan issues we were already working on.” Cummings applauds the incoming Chairman’s commitment to working across the aisle to help protect Americans, and looks forward to working with Congressman Issa to help keep more Americans in their homes on the path toward their American Dream. -30-
12.18.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Statement On Repeal Of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" Congressman has long supported repeal of discrimination in the military. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member-designee for the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform , today released a statement regarding the Senate passage of H.R. 2965, the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010: “The repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” is a landmark decision by the United States Congress to strike down blatant discrimination and allow those who love our nation to serve in its defense,” said Cummings. “The decision, by the House last week and the Senate today, shows that America is progressing toward becoming the land of equality sought by our founding fathers and the documents they wrote to create this nation. I have been proud to support the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” and I am prouder still of the Americans who will be able to serve that nation, regardless of who they love.” -30-
12.14.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Statement On Oversight And Government Reform Committee (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today released a statement after Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Edolphus Towns (D-NY) announced that he would not seek the Ranking Member position on the Committee in the 112th Congress. “In light of the decision by my esteemed Chairman and colleague, Rep. Edolphus Towns, not to seek the Ranking Member position, I am asking for the support of my colleagues for my candidacy for Ranking Member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. “The incoming Chairman, Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) has announced his intention to seek as many as 280 hearings in 2011 alone, in pursuit of obstructing some of the most significant legislative achievements from the 111th Congress and undermining the current Administration. The Democratic Caucus must not cede to the new House Majority that wishes to move our nation backward, and must take every opportunity to defend against partisan attacks and the dismantling of policies that ensure security for hardworking Americans. “Therefore, if elected to the position of Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, I pledge not to allow the Committee to tie the hands of our President and federal workforce, preventing them from fulfilling their duties to protect and serve the American people. I have deep confidence in the strength and talents of the Democratic Caucus, and pledge to consistently seek collaboration among the Democratic Members of the Committee. Finally, I will seek opportunities to work with Chairman Issa and the new Majority on a bipartisan basis whenever they arise.” -30-
12.08.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Proud To Vote To Send DREAM Act To SenateCongressman co-sponsored Act to rewarded military service and to keep well-educated students in America. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today was proud to vote to approve H.R. 5281 the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors (or DREAM) Act of 2010. The measure passed the House of Representatives and will now move to the Senate for consideration. “I co-sponsored the DREAM Act because I think it is a critical tool to both stop some of our best students and our most loyal troops from being forced to leave the country,” said Cummings. “The DREAM Act would give young people a chance to contribute to America’s future through service in the armed forces or by pursuing higher education. This legislation is narrowly tailored to allow only the best and brightest to earn their legal status through a rigorous and lengthy process. “We have people willing to help build this country, and to serve it in a time of war. We should respect that desire and find a way to help them live the American Dream. It is still not going to be easy to remain in America under the DREAM Act. This is not going to be for people who are lazy and trying to game the system. The immigrant has the entire burden of proof placed on their shoulders. The DREAM Act attempts to prevent the development of a permanent underclass of unauthorized immigrants who came to the US, by their parent’s choice. Without this reform, they are incentivized to avoid education and we risk creating a class of undereducated youth.” The DREAM Act would require undocumented students to become conditional permanent residents through a mechanism known as cancellation of removal. Unauthorized aliens must demonstrate: • That they have continuously been in the US for 5 years • That they were less than 16 years old upon arrival • That they either earned a high school diploma in the US or were admitted to a institution of higher learning. -30-
12.06.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings, Victims Discuss Foreclosure Scams, New ProtectionsCongressman reminds Maryland residents to be wary of offers regarding foreclosure relief. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), senior member of the Joint Economic Committee, hosted a press conference today, in which he was joined by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and Maryland’s Department of Labor Licensing and Regulation (DLLR), to discuss new FTC rules concerning mortgage modification scams. The FTC’s Mortgage Assistance Relief Services Rule helps protect distressed homeowners from scammers who falsely claim that, for a fee, they will negotiate with the consumer’s mortgage lender or servicer to obtain a loan modification, a short sale, or other relief from foreclosure. “I commend the FTC for taking this positive step to send a strong message to unscrupulous mortgage companies that prey on vulnerable families who are seeking every possible option to save their homes from foreclosure,” Congressman Cummings said. “We can no longer allow these mortgage scammers to walk away with people’s money, their homes and their dreams. “Those facing foreclosure are reaching for any hand that offers a resolution – and the FTC’s rule making will help ensure that they will receive aid only from reputable firms able to provide meaningful assistance.” The press conference was held at Congressman Cummings office in Baltimore City. Along with representatives of the FTC and the DLLR, Cummings was joined by two members of the public who had been scammed by firms taking actions that would violate the new rule. The FTC representative explained the rule and discussed actions that homeowners can take. · Under the new FTC rule, mortgage modification companies can not collect fees until customers receive a written offer from the lender that they find acceptable. · Mortgage-relief businesses also can not claim that they are affiliated with the government and can not guarantee that they will succeed in getting a lender to modify a mortgage. · If companies tell consumers to stop paying their mortgage, they must also tell them that by not paying the mortgage they could lose their home and damage their credit rating. · These companies must also have evidence backing up their claims about the effectiveness of their services. “We will continue to aggressively prosecute those who prey on people who are desperate to save their homes, and we are pleased that Congressman Cummings is helping spread the word about how to avoid mortgage relief scams and providing information about where to go for legitimate assistance,” said Laura Sullivan, an attorney with the FTC’s Division of Financial Practices. Homeowners facing foreclosure can contact MD Hope through their Hotline at 877-462-7555 or mdhope.org for assistance from a credit counselor. “We appreciate Congressman Cummings for highlighting the FTC action and the assistance of our federal partners in addressing these loan modification scams,” said Mark Kaufman, Maryland’s Commissioner of Financial Regulation. “Together with the FTC, local law enforcement and others, we have spent more than two years combating this problem. This press conference further highlights the key message that consumers should avoid anyone seeking to charge up front fees for loan modification promises. Do not pay, walk away – for even if we can recover your money, we’ll never recover the time that is needed to get meaningful assistance.” People can report any suspicious activity to the Office of Maryland’s Commissioner of Financial Regulation by calling 888-784-0136. “Maryland ranks 6th in the nation for mortgage scams,” said Tracey Barbour-Gillett, executive committee of the nonprofit Baltimore Homeownership Preservation Coalition. “That's why our new public awareness campaign urges homeowners to 'Be Forewarned, Not Foreclosed'. Actions by the FTC and Congressman Cummings' upcoming Foreclosure Prevention Workshop will also help protect homeowners.” Cummings will host his 5th Foreclosure Prevention Workshop on December 18th from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. at Woodlawn Senior High School. People can register on line at www.house.gov/cummings. -30-
12.03.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Congratulates Wilde Lake High SchoolCongressman celebrates high school football state championship. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today congratulated the Columbia Wilde Lake Wildecats (11-3) for their 21-14 victory Thursday night over the Indians of Reisertown Franklin High School at M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore. The Wilde Cats secured their sixth state championship in Class 3A, but their first since 1997 and the first for head coach Mike Harrison. Harrison replaced Coach Doug DuVall, who had coach at Wilde Lake for more than 30 years. “I congratulate Coach Harrison, Principal Restia Whitaker and the staff, students, teachers and parents that supported the Wildecats all year,” said Cummings. “Coach Harrison followed a true legend in Howard County and now he has begun to carve his own chapter in Maryland high school football. I know that all of Columbia and Howard County are incredibly proud of the Wildecats for bringing the state title back to Wilde Lake.” -30-
12.01.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings, Mikulski and Cardin Applaud Rapid Passage Of Legislation To Honor Robert Ball Bill passed House and Senate to name Social Security building for champion of Social Security (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) and Senators Barbara Mikulski and Benjamin Cardin (both D-MD) were pleased today to see the Senate pass H.R. 5773, designating the Social Security Administration Operations Building, located at 401 Security Boulevard in Baltimore, Maryland as the `Robert M. Ball Federal Building'. H.R. 5773 passed the House in September. “It was a privilege to sponsor this bill, to vote for it in the House and to see it move to the President’s desk,” said Cummings. “Bob Ball was a man who dedicated his career to defending and strengthening Social Security and who helped to expand the safety net for our nation’s seniors by aiding in the creation of Medicare. He was committed to the principle that Social Security was a contract between generations, ensuring that seniors could avoid poverty in their later years. I cannot imagine a better tribute to such a man than that his name be permanently attached to the building where Social Security operates.” Robert Ball was described by American Scholar magazine in 2005 as Social Security’s “biggest thinker, longest-serving commissioner and undisputed spiritual leader” and as “Social Security's chief advocate and defender.” “Robert Ball was one of the unsung heroes of the 20th Century. His commitment to ensuring the success of the Social Security program is unparalleled,” said Senator Cardin, who pushed for passage of the bill in the Senate. “His skill and knowledge was also instrumental in the creation of Medicare. It is most fitting that we name the Robert M. Ball Federal Building in honor of the man whose expertise and understanding of the Social Security program helped ensure that millions of seniors and disabled individuals would no longer live in poverty.” “Social Security is a reliable, undeniable benefit. It is a lifelong benefit, an inflation-proof benefit, an earned benefit. Bob Ball committed his life to protecting and strengthening that benefit, and I can think of no better way to honor him than naming the Social Security building after him,” Senator Mikulski said. Robert “Bob” Ball started working for the newly formed Social Security Board in 1939 as a field assistant in Newark, New Jersey. In 1949, Mr. Ball was appointed Assistant Director of the Bureau of Old Age and Survivors Insurance. He was subsequently promoted to Deputy Director and then Acting Director. Ball was the architect of the 1950 amendments raising benefits and expanding Social Security coverage to more Americans, including such groups as the self-employed, and making it easier for these groups to begin to qualify for benefits. He also helped draft the legislation establishing Social Security disability benefits in 1956 and helped Congress secure its passage even though the Eisenhower administration opposed this change. In 1957, Ball helped Representative Aime Forand draft a bill that was essentially the forerunner of Medicare. Ball continued to advocate for health insurance for seniors from that time until Medicare’s eventual passage in 1965. For this and his subsequent work supporting the implementation of the Medicare program, he is also known as the father of Medicare. President John F. Kennedy appointed Robert M. Ball as Commissioner of Social Security in 1962, a post in which he diligently served longer than anyone else prior or since. A decade after his appointment, Mr. Ball helped develop the 1972 amendments that linked benefits to inflation, ensuring that Social Security would never fail to meet basic needs. -30-
12.01.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Recognizes World AIDS Day (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today recognized the 22nd observation of World AIDS Day. Recognizing the spread of HIV infection and the pandemic of AIDS it has led to, World AIDS Day is particularly poignant in the City of Baltimore, which had the fourth highest AIDS case report rate of any major metropolitan area, 29.6 cases per 100,000 population during 2007. Baltimore City which represents a mere 12 percent of the state population currently accounts for nearly one-half of all the newly reported HIV/AIDS cases in Maryland. On December 31, 2008, Maryland had a total of 29,021 reported cases living with HIV and AIDS. As well, almost half the HIV infections in America are suffered by African American men. African American men and women are both far more likely to contract HIV than their White counterparts. Hispanic and Latino men and women also run a higher risk. In 2008, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) reported that of the 56, 300 people that were newly diagnosed in 2006, half of these cases belonged to African-Americans, which comprise 13 percent of the nation’s population. “We know what must be done in our nation to reduce this blight on our population,” said Cummings. “World AIDS Day will help Americans remember how important those actions are. While we do not have a cure or a vaccine, there are ways to prevent the spread of AIDS that are not being adequately communicated to many of our communities, particularly among minorities. We must all work together to stop the spread of HIV and AIDS, and give our scientists a fighting chance to find a cure. I commend all of the organizations working to make World AIDS Day a reminder that this disease is not going away on its own, and that we must continue working toward constant vigilance and prevention.” As of 2008, 28,270 Marylanders had been diagnosed with HIV and AIDS. Maryland has the 19th highest population in the nation, but is 9th in number of AIDS cases and 4th in AIDS case report rate (24.8 cases per 100,000 population during 2007). There are an estimated 2,100 new HIV infections per year in Maryland. World AIDS Day provides governments, national AIDS programs, faith organizations, community organizations, and individuals with an opportunity to raise awareness and focus attention on the global AIDS epidemic. -30-
11.30.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds Passage Of Funding For Pigford and Cobell Settlements Cummings votes to provide compensation for families of African American farmers. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today applauded House passage of H.R. 4783, the Claims Resolution Act of 2010. When signed by President Obama, this legislation will fully fund payments to those who will receive compensation under the Pigford and Cobell Settlements. The $1.25 billion in the legislation to fund the Pigford portion will be awarded to members of a class action lawsuit stemming from a 1990’s era case entitled Pigford v. Glickman. That suit was pressed by African American farmers who were treated unfairly by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Judges ruled that their ability to farm effectively was damaged by the actions of the USDA and the first class action settlement paid out nearly $1 billion. The recent funding, approved by the House on Tuesday, was needed to fully compensate all of the farmers affected by the actions of the USDA, including those not involved in the original lawsuit. “The finalization of these funds is a critical step for us as a nation to show the world that we are truly committed to equality, and that we are a nation where every person is treated fairly, regardless of race, creed or color,” said Cummings. “Those who were affected must be compensated, and those who were responsible must be brought to justice. This final step in approval of the Pigford settlement will allow closure for the families of those farmers who were treated unfairly by our government.” Also included in the bill was funding to settle the Cobell case, a class-action by Native Americans. They sued the Interior Department for mismanaging tribal trust fund accounts. - 30-
11.29.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Congratulates High School Football FinalistsCongressman pleased that two schools from Seventh Congressional District will play for Maryland State title. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today congratulated two Seventh Congressional District high schools on football victories over the past weekend, which moved both schools into the State Championship games of their respective classes. Columbia Wilde Lake High School’s Wildecats defeated the Swarmin' Hornets of Damascus by a final score of 21-14. Wilde Lake was the #4 seeded school in Class 3A, while Damascus came in to the game undefeated as the top-ranked team in the class. Wilde Lake will play Reisertown Franklin High School at 7 p.m. this Thursday, December 2nd at M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore. The Seventh Congressional District will also be represented by Baltimore Paul Laurence Dunbar High School in the Class 1A title game. The Poets defeated Cumberland Fort Hill High School in their semi-final game by a score of 20-14. The top-seeded Dunbar squad will face #2 Havre de Grace at 12 p.m. on Saturday, December 4th. That game will also be at M&T Bank Stadium. “I congratulate all of the players, coaches and staff of both schools,” said Cummings. “Both the Wildecats and the Poets played close games and managed to come away with big victories for their programs. I hope to see two well-played games in the finals, and very much hope to be able to congratulate both Coach Mike Harrison of Wilde Lake and Coach Lawrence Smith of Dunbar on bringing two State Championships to the Seventh Congressional District. Good luck to Wilde Lake and Dunbar!” All four football championship games will be televised live on WNUV TV-54, The CW-Baltimore. -30-
11.29.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Congressman Cummings Applauds Federal Trade Commission for Helping Families Keep Their Homes (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a senior Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the Joint Economic Committee, commended the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) for implementing a new rule to protect homeowners from mortgage scams. The new regulation stipulates that loan modification companies cannot charge any fees before a homeowner has received a settlement in writing from his or her mortgage holder that is acceptable to the homeowner. The measure responds to a significant increase in the number of reports indicating that loan modification companies are misleading homeowners by charging exorbitant fees up front to negotiate loan modifications and offering false claims about the services they are able to provide. “I commend the FTC for taking this positive step to send a strong message to unscrupulous mortgage companies that prey on vulnerable families who are seeking every possible option to save their homes from foreclosure,” Congressman Cummings said. “We can no longer allow these mortgage scammers to walk away with people’s money, their homes and their dreams.” “Those facing foreclosure are reaching for any hand that offers a resolution – and the FTC’s rule making will help ensure that they will receive aid only from reputable firms able to provide meaningful assistance.” The new rule also requires mortgage relief companies to disclose that they are not associated with the government, and their services have not been approved by the government or the consumer's lender. In addition, the rule bars mortgage relief companies from telling consumers to stop communicating with their lenders or servicers. -30-
11.25.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Gives ThanksCongressman will spend holiday with his family, thankful for the opportunity to serve. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah Cummings today invited all residents of Maryland, including those throughout Baltimore City, Baltimore County and Howard County, to give thanks for the blessings of the year, on the national day of Thanksgiving, as proclaimed by Abraham Lincoln in 1863. “Today, I celebrate my 14th Thanksgiving Day as an elected Representative of the people of the Seventh District of Maryland,” said Cummings. “More than anything but my health and loving family, I am unbelievably thankful and deeply honored that they have chosen me to do so, for so long. I pray that they are thankful for the service I have given, and that I can continue to represent them effectively in Washington. “I am also thankful for the work we have done in the past year. The economy is beginning to improve, we have reformed the health care system and Wall Street, we have helped thousands of college students get loans easier, and we have ensured that men and women in jobs throughout America can be thankful for equal compensation. However, on this joyous day, when we stop to think about all we have to be grateful for, I will also be thinking of those for whom this is a bittersweet holiday. Too many of our friends and neighbors are suffering, are out of work or are in danger of losing their homes. Today, I give thanks for everything with which my family and I have been blessed, but I will be even more grateful for each of those in life’s shadows who are able to step into the light because of our efforts in Washington.” Congressman Cummings wishes the Seventh District, and all of Maryland, a pleasant and enjoyable holiday. -30-
11.23.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Promotes Foreclosure Prevention SeminarsCongressman sends letter to Pelosi, Sherman, to create best practices for seminars to help constituents. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, recently sent a letter to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and Congressman Brad Sherman (D-CA), to recommend that other Members of the House of Representatives host Foreclosure Prevention Seminars similar to those that Cummings has hosted in Baltimore. Cummings has hosted four Foreclosure Prevention events since 2008 and will have a fifth on December 18th. The seminars have helped more than 3,000 Maryland residents who are facing foreclosure. Troubled mortgage borrowers are invited to meet with mortgage lenders, servicers, counselors and housing agencies in an effort to prevent foreclosures and provide the latest information on loss mitigation efforts. “You urged that our caucus make as our highest priority demonstrating to the American people that we are working to solve their problems,” the letter read in part. “I could not agree with you more, and that is why I would like to draw your attention to an initiative that I have spearheaded in my Congressional District. “Under your leadership, during the 111th Congress, the House Democrats took significant steps to attempt to stem the foreclosure tide and keep people in their homes. Given the persistence of this crisis, however, I believe we must continue and strengthen our efforts. Although numerous factors add to the challenge and complexity of the foreclosure issue, it is clear that one of the greatest obstacles to achieving loss mitigation is poor communication between borrowers and servicers. “I believe that we must solve the foreclosure crisis if we are truly going to achieve economic recovery and stability. Multiple approaches are necessary – but perhaps few are as important as the direct provision of assistance to our constituents. I look forward to being a constructive partner in these efforts and I hope that by sharing this initiative and the enclosed material, we can enhance the ability of our Caucus to help constituents facing foreclosure.” The kit was sent to Speaker Pelosi and to Congressman Sherman, who is the Chairman of the Member Services Taskforce for the Democratic Caucus. In this role, Rep. Sherman collects best practices and templates for constituent services events. -30-
11.22.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Reflects On 47th Anniversary Of JFK Assassination (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today called for all Americans to take a moment out of their day to remember the shooting of President John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963 in Dallas, TX. “I was 12 when the President was shot, and like many children that day, I remember feeling an incredible sadness about the death of a man who was the face of our nation, and who meant so much to so many, particularly with regard to his passion for civil rights,” said Cummings. “It is important now, when we have so much division and unhappiness in our country, to remember a time when a young man brought us all together in a spirit of hope and the belief that we all had so much to offer our country, in our combined efforts to make it a better place for all Americans. “Had President Kennedy lived and won a second term, I have no doubt that his commitment to the Civil Rights movement would have created an even greater historical figure, who would have helped move the cause of equality in our nation forward with his trademark vigor and enthusiasm. For that untapped legacy and for his incredible leadership and desire to serve our nation and to encourage public service, I continue to mourn the loss of President John F. Kennedy. I hope that all Americans will join me on the anniversary of that sad day.” -30-
11.15.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Congratulates Maryland Blue Ribbon SchoolsSecretary of Education Arne Duncan will recognize schools at Tuesday ceremony. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) congratulated three “Blue Ribbon” schools in Maryland which will be honored by Secretary of Education Arne Duncan at a ceremony on Tuesday. The ceremony will be held at the Omni Shoreham Hotel in Washington, D.C. and will honor all 314 national “Blue Ribbon” schools. During the ceremony, special leadership awards in the name of former Secretary of Education Terrel H. Bell will also be issued. “Our schools must be palaces of learning, to create new generations of American children who emerge from them with the knowledge and skills they will need to build our nation and compete on the global stage,” said Cummings. “Our children are the living messages we send to a future we will never see. These Blue Ribbon schools, and those being honored throughout Maryland and the nation, are the way we ensure that message is one in which we can take pride.” Announced in September of this year, the three Maryland schools in the Seventh Congressional District that are receiving Blue Ribbon honors are Eastern Technical High in Baltimore (Principal: Mr. Thomas Evans), Ellicott Mills Middle in Ellicott City (Principal: Mr. Michael Goins) and St. Louis School in Clarksville (Principal: Mrs. Terry Weiss). The Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors public and private elementary, middle and high schools whose students achieve at very high levels or have made significant progress and helped close gaps in achievement, especially among disadvantaged and minority students. The program is part of a larger Department of Education effort to identify and disseminate knowledge about best school leadership and teaching practices. -30-
11.10.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Remembers Maryland VeteransCongressman places spotlight on those in military service. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today reminded those in the Seventh Congressional District, and those throughout Maryland and the nation to honor and remember the service to our nation given by our military men and women, on Veterans Day. “Veterans Day is a chance to remind ourselves, though we are thankful each and every day for the American freedoms we cherish, that we must be especially thankful for the freedom from fear provided by our military,” said Cummings. “Both those who have been called to serve and those who have volunteered have sacrificed greatly to protect our nation and our freedoms. Today, we should think of them with pride, and with the same devotion they have given to their duty. We must particularly remember those who have given what President Lincoln called, ‘the last full measure’ of that devotion, those who laid down their lives in the service of our nation. I thank all of our military forces, current and veteran, who have put their lives on the line for this great nation, and I encourage all Marylanders to do the same.” More than 1.4 million men and women serve in our nation’s Armed Forces, including more than 280,000 who are currently in active combat in both Iraq and Afghanistan. More than 900,000 have died during their service to the United States. They are all remembered each year on Veterans Day, November 11th, which was created as Armistice Day in 1919 by President Woodrow Wilson. The date was the symbolic end of World War I, which had been called “The War to End All Wars.” -30-
11.10.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Statement On Deficit Commission Recommendations (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a senior member of the Joint Economic Committee, today reacted to the suggestions by the co-Chairs of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. “The work by the Commission has not been easy, and I continue to commend President Obama for taking the important steps necessary to begin discussions regarding the creation of a fiscally responsible plan for our nation,” said Cummings. “However, with that said, I believe the Commission made a great mistake by trying to balance the budget by further destroying the middle class, and by conflating the very specific need to adjust Social Security with the general need to change the overall spending and revenue habits of our nation. “Social Security is reliant on its own revenue stream and spending policies. It is not a function of, nor a cause of, the Federal budget deficit. While Social Security does need to be adjusted, we must ensure that we are not drawn away from the primary goal of re-creating the balanced budget which President Clinton left our nation. “In the past two years, we have begun this effort by addressing the strain health care costs place on our economy by passing a landmark health reform law that, alone, is expected to reduce our deficit by over one trillion dollars over the next ten years. We also passed financial regulatory reform, which will prevent predatory and shoddy mortgage practices and end the Wall Street recklessness that caused the financial collapse that led to the Great Recession. “I agree with many of my colleagues that we must return to a sane tax structure. Tax cuts that are not paid for are unfair to future generations and are irresponsible. Most of our current deficit can be traced to tax cuts, the Medicare drug plan and two wars, all unpaid for at the time they began. “Our problems were not caused by veterans’ healthcare, or education, or crime prevention, as is suggested by proposals to impose co-pays on veterans, cut education spending, and cut the budget for the Department of Justice. We must look seriously at our budget and get our fiscal house in order, but it is neither fair nor economically prudent to balance our budget on the backs of America’s working men and women. “We cannot have our cake and eat it too. We must end our overseas nation building, and we must at the same time end the Republican Party standard of ‘borrow and spend, then complain about borrowing.’ True fiscal responsibility must be the eventual product of whatever changes we make.” -30-
11.03.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Hosts "How to Pay for College" Seminar 14th Annual Seminar includes financial aid panel, meetings with colleges, universities and scholarship organizations. (Washington, DC) – On Monday, November 15, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings will host his 14th Annual “How to Pay for College” Seminar in Baltimore. The "How to Pay for College" Seminar is a free event designed to inform constituents about higher education opportunities and financial assistance programs to help them attain the American Dream of a college education. The seminar includes a financial aid panel which informs students and parents about federal financial aid programs, Maryland scholarship programs, researching private scholarship opportunities, the college admissions process, community college programs and college assessment test preparation. In addition, the seminar allows students and parents to meet with representatives from colleges, universities and scholarship organizations. “The affordability of a college education is one of the primary concerns of many families,” Congressman Cummings said. “I offer these seminars each year to make sure parents and students are aware of the many financial aid options available to them.” Participating organizations include: Alabama A&M University, American University, Baltimore City Community College, Baltimore City Public Schools, Baltimore International College, Capitol College, Cheyney University, CollegeBound Foundation, College of Notre Dame of Maryland, College Savings Plans of Maryland, Community College of Baltimore County – Catonsville, Coppin State University, Frostburg State University, Garrett College, Goldey-Beacom College, Hood College, Howard Community College, Johns Hopkins University, La Salle University, Montgomery College, Old Dominion University, Peabody Institute, St. Mary’s College of Maryland, Salisbury University, Sojourner-Douglass College, Towson University, United Negro College Fund, University of Baltimore, University of Maryland Baltimore County, University of Phoenix, U.S. Department of Education, Virginia Commonwealth University, Virginia State University, Washington College, West Chester UniversityWHAT: Congressman Elijah E. Cummings’ 14th Annual “How to Pay for College” SeminarWHERE: Enoch Pratt Free Library Central Branch, 400 Cathedral Street, Baltimore, MD 21201WHEN: Monday, November 15, 2010, 5:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. -30-
10.28.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings To Participate In Weatherization Recognition (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, will join other Maryland elected officials taking part in a press conference Friday morning, recognizing National Weatherization Day and Baltimore becoming a national leader in green and healthy homes. Since November 2009, Baltimore City has weatherized 687 homes with senior citizens and people with disabilities as the top priority. Weatherization efforts have reduced energy costs by approximately 35% for residents with limited income. “I am happy to take this step toward becoming a nation that wastes less energy,” said Cummings. “Energy efficiency is one step down a road that ends with a more secure America with the green economy we need to compete against China and India. Weatherization will help our economy grow by creating American jobs in construction, manufacturing and retail; industries that were crushed by the economic crisis. Also, by using less energy, we can cut our use of oil from countries that are unfriendly to us by as many as 7 million barrels a year. I am proud to support National Weatherization Day here in Baltimore.” A comprehensive approach with The National Coalition to End Childhood Lead Poisoning, The National Green and Healthy Homes Initiative and numerous other non-profit groups and agencies has enabled Baltimore to provide holistic services to ensure that homes have reduced asthmatic conditions and are energy efficient, lead paint free, and safe for seniors. In addition, through the partnerships with Baltimore City Community College and Sojourner-Douglass College, 78 people have received jobs as auditors, crew leaders, and crewmembers within the Weatherization Assistance Program. . The press event will begin at 10:00 a.m., Friday, October 29th, and will be located at the Wolfe Street Weatherization Training Facility, 1212 North Wolfe Street, Baltimore. -30-
10.20.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Welcomes Investment In Health InfrastructureCongressman pleased with HHS Consumer Assistance Grants. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today applauded the Department of Health and Human Services for their rapid action to help States put Americans in charge of their health care. HHS announced Tuesday that Consumer Assistance Grants would be awarded to the States, with a total award of nearly $30 million. These grants will support States’ efforts to establish or strengthen consumer assistance programs that provide direct services to consumers with questions or concerns regarding their health insurance. They allow States, in some cases partnering with local non-profits, to help strengthen and enhance ongoing efforts in the States and local communities to protect consumers from some of the worst insurance industry practices. “These grants are critical to help Americans understand the great opportunities they have to improve both their health and the quality of care and service they receive,” said Cummings. “Our greatest wealth is our health, and these grants will help folks here in Maryland and throughout the country learn how they can enrich their lives with better healthcare options. This is just another of the great steps taken by HHS to help Americans understand their new healthcare regulations.” A description of Maryland’s award and planned uses is below:Office of Attorney General, Consumer Protection Division, Health Education and Advocacy Unit (HEAU) - Amount Awarded: $599,220 Hire additional staff to assist with additional consumers, including: · Deputy Director to help manage the cases and HEAU staff. · Two additional Health Ombudsman. · Additional support staff member. · Medical professional to assist the Ombudsmen in preparing appeals and grievances, especially in cases involving medical necessity. · Outreach coordinator to educate consumer and providers about the HEAU. · Provide more consumers with assistance with the appeals and grievance processes. · Generate reports that are required under the grant program. The grants build on other programs and initiatives recently announced by HHS to help consumers make decisions about their care, including www.HealthCare.gov, where consumers already can find health insurance options customized to their needs and locations. Specifically, these grants will: · Help consumers enroll in health coverage; · Help consumers file complaints and appeals against health plans; · Educate consumers about their rights and empower them to take action; and · Track consumer complaints to help identify problems and strengthen enforcement. -30-
10.19.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Welcomes Changes In Maryland Court Procedure For Foreclosures Congressman has been at the forefront of fighting fraudulent foreclosures. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the Joint Economic Committee and the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today applauded the vote by the Maryland Court of Appeals, approving a new rules change for foreclosure actions. “Fraudulent foreclosures must end immediately,” said Cummings. “One way to make this happen is through a foreclosure moratorium, which I spearheaded and which Governor O’Malley, at my request, has encouraged. Another, equally important protection for Maryland homeowners is a fundamental shift in the way our courts deal with foreclosure. I believe this rule change represents the beginnings of that fundamental shift here in Maryland.” In proposing the new rule, the Court said, “the use of bogus affidavits to support actions to foreclose liens on property, apart from prejudice to the homeowners, constitutes an assault on the integrity of the judicial process itself.” Because of this, the Court will instruct any party filing a questionable affidavit to appear before the Court. Any costs incurred in the investigations of these affidavits will be bourn by the party who brings the foreclosure action. According to published reports, Montgomery County Circuit Court's administrative judge, John W. Debelius III helped draft the proposed rule and said, "You're talking about, potentially, a problem on a very large scale." Cummings agreed, “This could be a terrible situation on a number of fronts and for thousands of homeowners. This rules change is the right thing to do,” said Cummings. “Anyone suspected of filing these fraudulent documents should not be allowed to simply refile. They should be required to defend their actions and incorrect documents, whether filed intentionally or because of oversight, should not cost the homeowner, nor the court system. I applaud the Court for their work.” Cummings led the way in requesting a 60-day moratorium on all foreclosures in Maryland, calling on Governor O’Malley and Attorney General Gansler to immediately put such an action into effect. Cummings sent the letter when it was announced that Maryland, as a quasi-judicial foreclosure state, was not among the 23 states in which foreclosures were suspended by several banks. Cummings, O’Malley and Gansler followed with a letter to seven banks, requesting that each of those banks add Maryland to their list of states in which foreclosures would be suspended. Since Cummings began his call for a moratorium, Attorneys General in several states, including Florida, Iowa, Illinois, Colorado, California, Texas, Massachusetts, Ohio, North Carolina and most recently, Delaware, have called for moratoriums on foreclosure, either voluntarily or by legislation. From a Federal standpoint, New York Congressman and Chair of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ed Towns, Florida Rep. Alan Grayson, Oregon Rep. Earl Blumenauer, Michigan Reps. Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick and John Conyers, and the Democratic delegation from California, led by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, have followed the lead set by Congressman Cummings, calling for moratoriums. Cummings has consistently been an advocate for the rights of those facing foreclosure and has held four Foreclosure Prevention Seminars for people who are facing potential foreclosures. The homeowners meet with their lenders to work out loan modifications to prevent foreclosure. -30-
10.14.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Commends Social Security Office Progress Congressman welcomes economic development, construction in northwest Baltimore. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today applauded the final choice of developer for the lease construction project to create the new Social Security Administration facility at 6100 Wabash Avenue in Baltimore. JBG of Chevy Chase will design and construct the facility, which is intended to replace the current SSA Metro West office on North Greene Street in Baltimore. The Metro West facility was deemed too large for the Administration’s needs. The new facility will be more size appropriate and will also be created as a sustainable workplace, which will include certification by Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED®). Nearly 1,600 employees will work in the new facility, which is located in an underutilized space currently owned by the State of Maryland Department of Transportation. “The work done by General Services Administration to prepare this location, cooperating with state and local agencies, is an incredible example of how governments can work together efficiently and effectively, to find the best possible solution,” said Cummings. “The construction of this facility will revitalize the area, providing much needed jobs in northwest Baltimore. It will also create economic development opportunities for small businesses in the area. Finally, the convenience of the new location will help hundreds of Social Security employees utilize their workplace surroundings, while providing better transportation options for their commute.” The new site is bounded by Wabash Avenue to the east, Mount Hope Drive to the southeast, the Powder Mill Branch stream to the northwest, and the Seton Business Park to the southwest. The Reisterstown Plaza Metro Station borders the northeastern portion of the site. The next stage to this project, the design phase, will occur over the next several months. -30-
10.08.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Welcomes Bank Of America Foreclosure Sales Suspension Congressman led the way on urging moratoriums, following news reports of fraud. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the Joint Economic Committee and the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today applauded the decision by Bank of America to immediately suspend foreclosure sales nationwide. “Fraudulent foreclosures must end immediately,” said Cummings. “I am glad Bank of America has taken this huge step, and I challenge every other lender and servicer in the nation to do the same. “Until we can be certain that Americans are not fraudulently having their homes taken away, the recovery of our economy must take a back seat to the loss of our national and moral values. Also, when homes are fraudulently repossessed, the housing market will suffer, particularly where homeowners have redemption rights and can demand the return of their homes if they were wrongfully evicted. Avoiding fraudulent foreclosure will keep the American Dream alive for many families and ensure that our national recovery is built upon a firm foundation.” Cummings led the way in requesting a 60-day moratorium on all foreclosures in Maryland, calling on Governor O’Malley and Attorney General Gansler to immediately put such an action into effect. Cummings sent the letter when it was announced that Maryland, as a quasi-judicial foreclosure state, was not among the 23 states in which foreclosures were suspended by several banks. Cummings, O’Malley and Gansler followed with a letter to seven banks, sent earlier this week, requesting that each of those banks add Maryland to their list of states in which foreclosures would be suspended. Since Cummings began his call for a moratorium, Attorneys General in several states, including Florida, Iowa, Illinois, Colorado, California, Texas, Massachusetts, Ohio, North Carolina and most recently, Delaware, have called for moratoriums on foreclosure, either voluntarily or by legislation. From a Federal standpoint, New York Congressman and Chair of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Ed Towns, Florida Rep. Alan Grayson, Oregon Rep. Earl Blumenauer, Michigan Reps. Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick and John Conyers, and the Democratic delegation from California, led by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, have followed the lead set by Congressman Cummings, calling for moratoriums. Cummings has consistently been an advocate for the rights of those facing foreclosure and has held four Foreclosure Prevention Seminars for people who are facing potential foreclosures. The homeowners meet with their lenders to work out loan modifications to prevent foreclosure. -30-
10.04.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Joins O'Malley, Gansler To Request Banks Cease Maryland Foreclosures Congressman, Governor, Attorney General concerned with mounting evidence of fraudulent foreclosures. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today joined Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley and Attorney General Douglas F. Gansler, in a letter to seven mortgage servicers, asking that they, “agree not to file any foreclosure actions, proceed to a sale, proceed with ratification of a sale, move to eject or evict a homeowner, or close or otherwise complete REO sales pending on any Maryland mortgage loan until appropriate evaluation and remedial action has been taken to address these concerns.” This letter was sent to Ally, Bank of America, JP Morgan Chase, Citigroup, OneWest, PNC and Wells Fargo. It follows a request to O’Malley and Gansler, sent this weekend by Cummings, asking that the State of Maryland issue a foreclosure moratorium of at least 60 days. The previous letter was sent after numerous news reports from multiple states indicated that major lending institutions may have committed deceptive and fraudulent actions to initiate foreclosure proceedings against potentially hundreds of thousands of homeowners, including signing affidavits and other legal documents in bulk without confirming the accuracy of the information alleged in those documents. Because of these allegations, the mortgage servicers in question have halted foreclosure proceedings in 23 states. Maryland is not among those states, due to technical issues concerning the way foreclosures in the state are prepared and executed. The joint letter sent by Cummings, O’Malley and Gansler reads in part, “We are alarmed by these allegations and while we are informed that Maryland has not been included in the response thus far, we are seriously concerned that similar problems likely exist in our state as well. In light of recent events, it seems reasonable to question whether the manner in which affidavits are prepared, reviewed and signed, and the sufficiency of the process employed to verify elements of default leading to a foreclosure may be in violation of Maryland Law.” “The foreclosure crisis is unacceptable to me, and we must take action to keep the American Dream from turning into a nightmare for millions of people,” Cummings said Sunday. “I have long said that the question is not if we will weather this storm, but when the storm is over, who will be living in these homes? “It is stunning to me to find out that so many people in this nation may have been fraudulently deprived of their property, while their hopes and lives were dashed on the rocks of circumstance. We must not allow a single person to be foreclosed on, or to be evicted from his or her home, until government agencies are absolutely certain that all procedures and laws were adhered to in the foreclosure process and that the process was based on complete and accurate information.” -30-
10.03.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the Joint Economic Committee, sent a letter Saturday to Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley and Attorney General Douglas Gansler. In that letter, Cummings called for an immediate 60-day moratorium on foreclosures in Maryland.“Numerous new reports from multiple states suggest major lending institutions may have committed deceptive and fraudulent actions to initiate foreclosure proceedings against potentially hundreds of thousands of homeowners, including signing affidavits and other legal documents in bulk without confirming the accuracy of the information alleged in those documents,” the letter read in part. “At least one executive, at Bank of America in Massachusetts, admitted to this practice saying, ‘I typically don’t read them because of the volume that we sign.’” As a result of practices such as these, families may have been wrongly evicted from properties based on inaccurate or incomplete information. Foreclosed properties may have even been sold to new owners following such proceedings. Cummings’ letter continues, “Critically, if a foreclosure is conducted on the basis of fraudulent information, the state legal system may unwittingly become complicit in unfairly depriving a citizen of his or her property.” Cummings has consistently been an advocate for the rights of those facing foreclosure and has held four Foreclosure Prevention Seminars for people who are at risk of being foreclosed on. The homeowners are matched with lenders to work out loan modifications to prevent foreclosure. “The foreclosure crisis is unacceptable to me, and we must take action to keep the American Dream from turning into a nightmare for millions of people,” said Cummings. “I have long said that the question is not whether we will weather this storm, but when the storm is over, who will be living in these homes, and who will work in these jobs that have been lost. “It is stunning to me to find out that so many people in this nation may have been fraudulently deprived of their property, while their hopes and lives were dashed on the rocks of circumstance. We must not allow a single person to be foreclosed on, or to be evicted from their home, until government agencies are absolutely certain that all procedures and laws were adhered to in the foreclosure process.” Cummings’ letter also noted that, “[T]he homeowner is not the only party who suffers during a foreclosure. Property values of homes surrounding a foreclosed property may decrease and as the appearance of foreclosed property degrades, the values of surrounding properties may be further depressed. Finally, but of no small importance, municipalities that rely on property taxes face a loss in revenue from each foreclosed property.” -30-
10.01.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Named “Champion for Children” (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) was named a “Champion for Children” this week, by the First Focus Campaign for Children. The national, bipartisan child advocacy group, released the names of Members of Congress identified as “leaders who introduced, co-sponsored, and voted for legislation that would best meet the needs of children. In addition, the organization considered Members who demonstrated extraordinary initiative by spearheading activities such as sponsoring hearings or garnering the support of their colleagues to improve the health and well-being of children.” “Our children are the living messages that we send to a future we will never see,” said Cummings. “I can think of nothing more important to consider in the work I do than the effect that work will have on our nation’s youth. They are the measure of our success as adults and I will continue striving to improve their chances to thrive.” Cummings has been a champion of children’s health, particularly pediatric dentistry, often invoking the memory of Deamonte Driver, a 12 year old boy from Maryland whose life was cut drastically short three years ago when an untreated tooth infection spread to his brain. Several major provisions which Cummings fought for are included in the health care legislation enacted six months ago: · Pediatric dentistry is covered as an essential health benefit; · Funds will be provided to launch a dental campaign to new parents and traditionally underserved areas; · Workforce Training Grants will be available to provide technical assistance to pediatric training programs in developing and implementing instruction regarding the oral health status, dental care needs, and risk-based clinical disease management of all pediatric populations with an emphasis on underserved children; and · There is a loan repayment program with preference given to qualified applicants who have a record of training individuals who are from a rural or disadvantaged background. Cummings was one of only 50 Members of Congress to be awarded the “Champion for Children” honor by First Focus. The announcement launches the group’s inaugural campaign to recognize the top 100 Members of Congress who make improving the well-being of children a national priority. -30-
09.30.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds Swift Final Passage Of Coast Guard Authorization Bill Congressman looks forward to President Obama signing legislation to help modernize U.S. Coast Guard. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, was pleased Thursday morning as the Senate and House swiftly agreed on final passage of H.R. 3619, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2010. Once the bill is signed by President Obama, it will authorize slightly more than $10 billion in annual funding for the United States Coast Guard, and will make several major changes to the service. “This bill, the product of four years of work, provides a long overdue authorization for the Coast Guard and significantly strengthens the service’s management of its many missions,” said Cummings. “In particular, the bill will strengthen the service’s control of its billion dollar annual acquisition program. “It also includes provisions that will improve the service’s marine safety program and ensure it is staffed by personnel who meet qualification standards, support efforts to reduce emissions from ships, and impose new safety standards on the fishing industry. I am pleased that the Senate was able to move quickly to approve this authorization, so that it can be sent on to the President for his signature. This bill will change the way the Coast Guard does business, and I believe it will change it for the better.” Along with major changes to the acquisition process and the marine safety program implemented by the Coast Guard, the legislation will reorganize the service’s senior leadership, strengthen our merchant marine and strengthen the service’s homeland security missions. -30-
09.29.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Continues Investigation Into American Commercial Fleet Cummings eager to understand what can be done to expand the number of U.S.-flagged vessels carrying U.S. commercial cargo. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, held a hearing today, to continue the discussion regarding U.S.-flagged vessels in the U.S. foreign trade. According to the Maritime Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. flagged fleet consists of only 94 vessels, which carry two percent of American foreign traded goods. Many of the reasons for this shortfall concern the economic challenges that make such operations more costly than operations under so-called flags of convenience. A previous hearing addressed the criticality of the Maritime Security Program and cargo preference requirements to making operation under the U.S. flag economically viable. Congressman Cummings believes hearings such as the one held Wednesday are critical to improving America’s maritime industry, as well as national security. “I frankly have no doubt that our inability to carry even a small portion of our U.S. foreign trade commercial cargoes on U.S.-flagged vessels represents an economic and potentially a security risk to the nation,” said Cummings. “One of the most important issues that we are looking to address is whether the cargo preference laws apply to cargo financed with loan guarantees created by the Energy Policy Act and administered by the Department of Energy (DOE). It makes zero sense for U.S. loan guarantees to support purchases from foreign countries that would then be carried on foreign-flagged ships. “We are also anxious to hear how MARAD defines the causes and consequences of the challenges facing our U.S.-flagged fleet, and the policies that MARAD believes should be pursued to maintain and grow that fleet. Our U.S.-flagged fleet is facing significant challenges. It is MARAD’s job, as the entity charged with promoting the development of our U.S.-flagged fleet and our maritime transportation network, to lead the response to these challenges.” -30-
09.29.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Proud To Vote To Provide 9/11 First Responders With Healthcare James Zadroga Act ensures that heroes receive the medical care that they deserve. (Washington, DC) - Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) voted to provide 9/11 first responders and survivors with long-term, comprehensive health care and fair economic compensation. Thousands of first responders to Ground Zero, including firefighters, police officers, and other rescue workers, were exposed to dangerous toxins, leaving them with chronic, deadly diseases. H.R. 847, the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act ensures that these heroes receive full medical care. “Our brave first responders made sacrifices that we so often lionize, on one of our nation’s darkest days,” said Cummings. “Many were sickened or injured. I was proud to stand by their side, and vote to provide them with the medical care and treatments that they so sorely need. Voting no on this bill would have been unconscionable to me.” Named for James Zadroga, a police officer who died at 34 from respiratory diseases contracted at Ground Zero, the bill provides medical monitoring and treatment to the over 71,000 people exposed to harmful toxins and dust on the scene. The bill also reopens the September 11, 2011 Victim Compensation Fund to provide monetary compensation for those physically injured by the attacks or by response activities and debris removal. It is fully paid-for over the next 10 years by a provision preventing foreign multinational firms from avoiding United States taxes by routing income through other haven countries. “I am proud of my colleagues for all of the hard work they did to bring this bill to the floor once again,” said Cummings. “The other side of the aisle voted no on this bill the first time it was brought to the floor, causing it to fail and toying with the lives of these heroic Americans. Today we triumphed in passing this long-awaited legislation. Today is the next step in the healing process, for both our first responders and for this country.” H.R. 847 was supported by a long list of groups, including the International Association of Firefighters, National Association of Police Organizations, Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, AFL-CIO, AFSCME, Associated General Contractors, Associated Builders and Contractors, and American Council of Engineering Companies. -30-
09.28.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Pleased By Passage Of Coast Guard Authorization Bill Congressman looks forward to modernized Coast Guard acquisition process. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, was pleased today with the passage of H.Res. 1665, concurring in Senate amendments to H.R. 3619, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2010, with amendments. The bill authorizes slightly more than $10 billion in annual funding for the United States Coast Guard, and will make several major changes to the service. Cummings chaired four hearings on the Deepwater acquisition program and participated in multiple hearings of the full Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to consider Coast Guard acquisitions. Coast Guard procurement was heavily examined, including circumstances leading to initial failures in Deepwater procurements. Included among these was the failure of the effort to lengthen the 110-foot patrol boats, and all of the significant acquisition management reforms the Coast Guard has implemented in recent years. “I am very happy that the House has passed an effective bill that will help the Coast Guard,” said Cummings. “One of the biggest issues the Coast Guard faces right now is ensuring capable management of its acquisition process. During the hearings I have chaired on the subject, we learned what needed to be done to help the Coast Guard to operate efficiently and effectively. I believe the reforms the service has already implemented as a result of the hearings have been forceful responses to the challenges the service has faced. I applaud the Coast Guard for addressing these issues head-on. Provisions in the Coast Guard Authorization will build on and strengthen these reforms.” H.R. 3619 will require appointment of a Chief Acquisition Officer. This officer can be a senior military officer or member of the senior executive service but must be a trained acquisition professional with the highest available acquisition certification. The legislation will eliminate the use of private sector lead systems integrators and require the Coast Guard to develop tailored testing and evaluation programs and independent life-cycle cost estimates for its largest procurements. H.R. 3619 will require the Coast Guard to complete a thorough mission needs analysis that identifies specific capability gaps as well as a preliminary affordability assessment before initiating a large acquisition and it will require the Coast Guard to consider trade-offs among cost, schedule, and performance when establishing operational requirements. Finally, this legislation will apply strict cost and schedule breach standards to Coast Guard acquisitions. Additionally, the legislation will reorganize the service’s senior leadership, strengthen our merchant marine, establish safety equipment and construction standards for certain fishing vessels, and strengthen the service’s homeland security missions. “Though it is critical that the authorization passes, I am certainly disappointed that there were a number of provisions we had to drop from the House-passed bill in the final revisions,” said Cummings. “Included among the dropped legislation were provisions I authored to create a student loan program specifically for maritime workers and provisions that would have encouraged efforts to support diversity at the Coast Guard Academy. “Despite the loss of these programs, H.R. 3619 is a long overdue authorization for the Coast Guard and I urge my colleagues in the Senate it to pass it as soon as possible.” -30-
09.24.2010	profileMaint 11.9999 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Congratulates Two Maryland Mentoring Organizations Baltimore and Columbia-based programs receive more than $4 million in awards. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today congratulated two Maryland mentoring organizations, following their being awarded Recovery Act grants through the Department of Justice. The Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation of Baltimore and the U.S. Dream Academy of Columbia were each given grants of roughly $2 million, as part of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Multi-State Mentoring Initiative. The Mentoring Initiative is designed to enhance or expand initiatives that assist in the development and maturity of community programs that provide mentoring services to high-risk populations who are underserved due to location, shortage of mentors, or special physical or mental challenges of the targeted population. “Our children are the living messages we send to a future we will never see,” said Cummings. “I am pleased to see that, as part of the Recovery Act working to rebuild our economy, such a priority has been given to supporting these living messages. These two organizations do tremendous work, ensuring that our children are given mentors who help provide the life skills they need to survive, and to thrive. The Cal Ripken, Sr. Foundation, which received $2 million, works throughout the country with Boys & Girls Clubs, P.A.L. centers, inner-city schools, and other organizations serving America’s most distressed communities. The Foundation is a supporting partner to those organizations who, on a daily basis, play such a critical role in developing, inspiring, and saving young lives. The U.S. Dream Academy, which received $2.3 million, starts with the principle that, beyond school, every young person served must spend 11 to 15 hours each week in a stimulating learning environment. One-on-one sessions with carefully matched mentors complement afterschool activities that combine academic fundamentals. The focus builds on three pillars – skill-building, character-building, and dream-building. The overall goal is to nurture the whole child while altering attitudes, enhancing self-esteem, supporting emotional and intellectual growth, and sparking dreams. -30-
09.23.2010	profileMaint 11.9999 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Pleased To Help Pass Small Business Aid Congressman votes for $30 billion in small business loans to help create American jobs. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today voted yes on H.R. 5297, the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act. The legislation, which was passed by the Senate last week, will create a new $30 billion lending fund for small and medium sized community banks ($10 billion or under) that could leverage up to $300 billion in lending. “Our small businesses continue to be engine of our economy and they are still sputtering,” said Cummings. “This legislation will inject some much needed capital into the system, allowing businesses to borrow money they can use to expand, to hire Americans, and to flourish. I was happy to see the Senate approve this bill last week, and I am proud to continue the Democratic record in this Congress, of passing legislation that has created jobs, helped to encourage our manufacturing sector and which will work to continue our economic recovery.” The bill includes tough performance-based incentives to make sure that banks lend to small business. Banks with assets of less than $1 billion would be able to borrow an amount equal 5% of their assets, and banks worth up to $10 billion would be eligible for an investment of up to 3% of their assets. Banks will repay the government's investment at a dividend rate starting at 5% with lower interest payments if they expand their small business lending. That rate would drop by 1% for every 2.5% increase in small business lending that the bank shows compared to 2009. A lender could cut its dividend rate to just 1% by increasing small business loan portfolio by 10%. But if the bank reduced its small business lending, its repayment dividend would shoot up as high as 7%. The program would only be available to banks with assets of less than $10 billion -- ruling out the megabanks that have drawn fire for putting their own interests before their customers. -30-
09.22.2010	profileMaint 11.9999 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Welcomes First Phase Of Health Insurance Reform Americans will be better protected by insurance coverage. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) was pleased today to see the first installment of promised improvements in America’s healthcare system. On the six month anniversary of the passage of the Affordable Care Act, several major protections begin for individual and group plans purchased or renewed after Thursday. · Americans will not have their health coverage arbitrarily cancelled if they become sick; · Children cannot be denied coverage due to a pre-existing condition;· Children under the age of 26 can remain on their parents health plans;· Health plans may no longer have lifetime limits on coverage benefits; and· Annual coverage limits will also be phased out over the next three years. Along with important changes in health insurance, Americans with insurance now have several new rights guaranteed by the Affordable Care Act. · Key preventive services must be covered with no deductible or co-payment; · Both external and internal appeals must be available for insurance company decisions; · Patients have the right to access out-of-network emergency room care at in-network cost-sharing rates; and · Customers have the right to choose their own doctors. “When we passed the Affordable Care Act, I said that this was the most important vote I had taken as a Congressman,” said Cummings. “Tomorrow, the results of my vote will confirm that claim. I often say that our children are a message we send to a future that we will never see. We must keep them healthy, we must provide a means for them to remain healthy, and we must protect them from the abuses of unregulated greed. The Affordable Care Act promised all of that and more. Tomorrow, it begins to deliver.”Congressional Republicans have rejected these improvements and promised to repeal all reform at their earliest possible opportunity, an outcome that Congressman Cummings has vowed to continue fighting to avoid.-30-
09.17.2010	profileMaint 11.9999 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Welcomes Landmark Broadband Investment Congressman excited for opportunities that will be provided by $115 million broadband/fiber project. (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, today welcomed the $115 million award of Recovery Act funding to the One Maryland Broadband Network (OMBN) project. OMBN will link and extend three independent networks: the state-run networkMaryland; the Inter-County Broadband Network (ICBN), a 10-county consortium; and the Maryland Broadband Cooperative (MdBC), a rural non-profit carrier. The nearly 650 miles of new fiber that will be laid in rural portions of the state will substantially improve public safety, government services, healthcare delivery, and education, offering community anchor institutions access speeds between 10 Mbps and 10 Gbps. “The improvement in physical infrastructure made by the Recovery Act have been vital, but what we are announcing today, and the power that it brings our children, is critical to our recovery and our growth as a state, and as a nation,” said Cummings. “The power of our country has always been our people. We harness that power by educating our children, by training new workers, and by making available to our people the unbelievable amount of information humanity has at its fingertips through the Internet. “Broadband access is a gamechanger. No longer will our human power be concentrated in one area. Cities like Easton, which may have once felt themselves far removed from economic development, public safety improvements and academia, will be connected to government services, hospitals and our institutes of higher learning, including Coppin State University, which I am proud to represent. “The playing field will be leveled. Citizens who once were limited to a trickle of information will now be able to access the ocean of human knowledge and critical services putting them squarely on the cutting edge of our national economy. Most importantly, their children will have the wonders of the world at their fingertips like never before.” The OMBN will connect 1,000 community anchor institutions, including as many as 450 K-12 schools, 40 libraries, 200 government facilities, 15 community colleges, six other institutions of higher learning, and two healthcare providers, with the capability to serve an additional 2,400 anchor institutions. The project will interconnect with educational hubs like the University of Maryland and its Academic Telecommunications System—to allow for peering with Internet2 and National Lambda Rail—and Coppin State University, a historically Black college and BTOP Round One grantee. To create the OMBN, over 1,200 miles of new fiber will be constructed and connected to more than 2,400 miles of existing fiber to facilitate more affordable and accessible broadband service for almost 2 million households and 443,000 businesses by enabling local Internet service providers to utilize the project’s open network. Finally, direct fiber connections will be provided to approximately 260 public safety facilities in Maryland, enabling the upgrade to a Next Generation 911 system and improving interoperable communications, including a direct link with NCRnet, the 22-jurisdiction public safety network in the National Capital Region. Cummings went on to say, “I am incredibly excited to see this project begin, because I know at the end, lies a better Maryland and a better America.” -30-
09.15.2010	profileMaint 11.9999 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Pleased To Honor Robert Ball Congressman sponsors bill, passed by House, to name Social Security building for “father of Medicare.” (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) was pleased today with the passage, by the United States House of Representatives, of H.R. 5773, designating the Social Security Operations Building, located at 401 Security Boulevard in Baltimore, Maryland as the `Robert M. Ball Federal Building'. Robert “Bob” Ball started working for the newly formed Social Security Board in 1939 as a field assistant in Newark, New Jersey. In 1949, Mr. Ball was appointed Assistant Director of the Bureau of Old Age and Survivors Insurance. He was subsequently promoted to Deputy Director and then Acting Director. Ball was the architect of the 1950 amendments raising benefits and expanding Social Security coverage to more Americans, including such groups as the self-employed, and making it easier for these groups to begin to qualify for benefits. He also helped draft the legislation establishing Social Security disability benefits in 1956 and helped Members secure its passage even though the Eisenhower administration opposed this change. In 1957, Ball helped Representative Aime Forand draft a bill that was essentially the forerunner of Medicare. Ball continued to advocate for health insurance for seniors from that time until Medicare’s eventual passage in 1965. For this and his subsequent work supporting the implementation of the Medicare program, he is also known as the father of Medicare. President John F. Kennedy appointed Robert M. Ball as Commissioner of Social Security in 1962, a post in which he diligently served longer than anyone else prior or since. A decade after his appointment, Mr. Ball helped develop the 1972 amendments that linked benefits to inflation, ensuring that Social Security would never fail to meet basic needs. “Bob Ball was a man who dedicated his career to defending and strengthening Social Security and who helped to expand the safety net for our nation’s seniors by supporting the creation of Medicare,” said Cummings. “His experiences in the field demonstrated that Social Security was a contract between generations, ensuring that seniors could avoid poverty in their later years. I cannot imagine a better tribute to such a man to have his name permanently attached to the building where Social Security operates.” Robert Ball was described by American Scholar magazine in 2005 as Social Security’s “biggest thinker, longest-serving commissioner and undisputed spiritual leader” and as “Social Security's chief advocate and defender.” -30-
09.11.2010	profileMaint 11.9999 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Remembers Attacks On America Congressman prays for continued safety of Americans. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today released a statement on the ninth anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks. “No one who was alive that terrible day will forget the devastation wreaked on New York and Washington,” said Cummings. “Likewise, the heroes of Shanksville, who drove Flight 93 from its intended path, will live in our hearts forever. September 11th has taken its place alongside other landmark dates in American history, and must continue to be a reminder, each year, of the tragedy of that day, the heroism shown by so many, the importance of constant vigilance and the hope we have for the future of our nation and our world. I will continue to work my hardest to heed that reminder, and will continue to pray and to work as hard as possible to ensure that it is never repeated.” -30-
09.11.2010	profileMaint 11.9999 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Remembers Dr. Ron Walters Congressman mourns the loss of respected political professional and educator. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today released a statement following the death of Dr. Ron Walters, who not only served as campaign manager for the Presidential campaigns of Rev. Jesse Jackson, but was also a professor at University of Maryland and at Howard University, where he instructed Rep. Cummings. Walters died at the age of 72. “Dr. Ron Walters taught me as a student at Howard University during the early seventies. He was a man of great integrity and intellect. He was such a popular professor that there were waiting lists to get into his classes. However, he was a very strict grader. Whenever I was faced with difficult political decisions in life, the professor would always find time for me. He would provide me with the benefits of his thoughts, opinions and extensive knowledge. While he was a quiet man, his opinions always carried a lot of weight in the world of politics and beyond. He was a man who consistently told me what I needed to hear even though I may not have wanted to hear it. He touched the lives of all the students who had the honor of being a part of any of his classes. “Dr. Walters was not only my teacher. He was also one of my most reliable and brilliant mentors. He truly brought life to my life and to the lives of the many people he touched. I will be forever grateful to Dr. Walters for seeing qualities in me that I did not see in myself. He will be greatly missed. A true giant of a man has fallen. However, he has left this world a better place than the one that existed the day he was born. For this and many other reasons I am thankful that my life eclipsed with his. May God bless his soul.” During his distinguished career, Dr. Walters also published well over 100 academic articles and seven books. One book, Black Presidential Politics in America, won the Bunche Prize. As well as his work in Maryland, he was an assistant professor at Brandeis University, an assistant professor at Syracuse University and a fellow at Harvard University. -30-
09.08.2010	profileMaint 11.9999 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Congratulates Baltimore Business W.R. Grace receives multi-million dollar Department of Energy grant. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today congratulated W.R. Grace and Company, which has offices in Howard County and Baltimore, for securing a grant from the United States Department of Energy, to help create thermochemical conversion catalysts and processes that will produce gasoline, diesel and/or jet fuel from biomass. U.S. Department of Energy Secretary Steven Chu recently announced the investments of up to $16.5 million for two major research and development initiatives that will support the expansion of renewable transportation fuels production. Grace & Company will operate one of four projects, which total $12 million in investment over three years, to advance technologies for the thermochemical conversion of biomass into advanced biofuels that are compatible with existing fueling infrastructure. “Our future economy will be built on new technology,” said Cummings. “It gives me great pride to know that Baltimore is now one of the incubators of that innovation transition that will help lead this nation back to both the economic and technological forefront. I am excited for W.R. Grace and Company, and I will be anxiously awaiting the results of their work.” Grace & Company will receive up to $3.3 million to create new technology for processing bio-oils to produce gasoline, diesel and jet fuels. This project will evaluate a specialized catalytic reactor designed to resist corrosion and extend catalyst life. These reactors have not yet been evaluated for use with renewable feedstocks such as pyrolysis oils. Grace & Company will demonstrate the use of a single catalyst charge and reactor apparatus for more than 1000 operating hours to evaluate and improve the performance and lifetimes of pyrolysis catalysts and reactors. These biomass R&D initiatives continue to strengthen Department of Energy efforts to accelerate development and deployment of sustainable, renewable biofuels in order to significantly reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil. -30-
08.30.2010	profileMaint 11.9999 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Requests Further BP Investigation Congressman sends letter to subcommittee Chairman, asking that BP officials be called to Washington. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today sent a request to Congressman Dennis Kucinich (D-OH), requesting that, in his role as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic Policy, Rep. Kucinich convene a hearing to examine questions surrounding the extent of the oil that remains in the Gulf of Mexico following the spill from the BP Macondo well-site, as well as the adequacy of current government and private industry efforts to assess the danger that remnant oil in the waters of the Gulf poses to the environment and to the seafood harvested from the Gulf. Cummings believes that statements by BP, government officials and scientists regarding oil remaining in the Gulf and related issue need further clarification. In the letter, Cummings said, “Federal officials have claimed that as much as three-quarters of the oil that spilled into the Gulf has been ‘cleaned up or chemically dispersed, or naturally deteriorated, evaporated or dissolved,’ [while] other media reports indicate that scientists have found extensive plumes of oil lingering below the water’s surface.” He continued, “I believe it is imperative that Congress address legitimate public confusion and concern about the extent of the oil remaining in the Gulf. . . Further, we should examine the extent of current research efforts intended to assess long-term damage to the environment caused by the oil spill, such as by correlating exposure to petroleum with specific DNA alterations in aquatic flora and fauna.” Finally, Cummings is deeply concerned that BP is apparently requiring scientists under contract to the firm to sign confidentiality agreements that compel the scientists to withhold the release of their research findings. To answer these allegations, Cummings expressly requested that BP officials be called to testify. The letter of request was relayed to Chairman Kucinich Monday. -30-
08.25.2010	profileMaint 11.9999 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Congratulates Coast Guard Academy (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, today congratulated the United States Coast Guard Academy at New London, CT, for being named one of the top institutions of higher learning by U.S. News & World Report, The Princeton Review and Forbes Magazine. “Last month, I was proud to help the Coast Guard Academy recognize its 100th anniversary,” said Cummings. “I am incredibly proud to see continued proof that they have not only had a wonderful history, but can look forward to a spectacular future. “The Academy has produced thousands of our nation’s best, brightest and bravest; the men and women of our United State Coast Guard. They function as our country’s last line of defense and so often as the first rescuers at the scene of an emergency. We, as a nation, owe them a tremendous debt of gratitude, both for their work in the classrooms of the Academy, and their service under the flag of this great land.” The Coast Guard Academy was awarded first place in the Baccalaureate Colleges (North) category in the 2011 edition of U.S. News and World Report's Best Colleges issue. The Academy earned a perfect overall score of 100, the highest among more than 300 colleges which were ranked. The news comes only weeks after Cummings recognized the Academy for their improvement in diversity efforts. The Class of 2014 reported for training on June 28. At that time, 199 male and 90 female cadets were sworn into the class. The gender diversity of the Coast Guard Academy has consistently increased in the past several years. Thus, the Class of 2012 was comprised of only 29 percent female cadets while the Class of 2014 is 31 percent female. Along with gender diversity, nearly 24 percent of the incoming class are non-Caucasian, including 35 Hispanic Americans, 15 African Americans, and 13 Asian Americans. By comparison, the Class of 2012, which was sworn in 2008, was comprised of only 12 percent of cadets who identified themselves as an ethnic minority. Along with recognition by U.S. News and World Report, The Coast Guard Academy was also featured in The Princeton Review's Best in the Northeast section on PrincetonReview.com and ranked highly in Forbes Magazine's America's Best Colleges 2010 edition. -30-
08.25.2010	profileMaint 11.9999 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Helps Deliver Funds To Maryland Food Bank Congressman presents check from Target which will purchase three tons of needed food. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) joined Target Wednesday in presenting a check for $2,000 to the Maryland Food Bank. The money will be used to purchase approximately one and a half tons of food for needy families throughout Maryland. Cummings joined Patty Catano Richey of Target, in presenting the check to Deborah Flateman, Chief Executive Officer of the Maryland Food Bank. “Now, when so many in our nation are in trouble, we must make certain that families who have the simplest needs like food and housing are cared for,” said Cummings. “We must continue to try to improve the lives of everyday Americans, and to create jobs for those who are without, but we must not forget those whose primary concern is not where they will work or where their children will go to college, but from where they will get their next meal. Along with the citizens of Maryland, I thank Target for helping with this critical need.” The Maryland Food Bank, an affiliate of Feeding America, was founded in 1979 to coordinate the procurement and distribution of food donations from manufacturers, wholesalers, retailers and government agencies to organizations providing free food to the state's hungry. They operate from two facilities: one in Baltimore, serving all Maryland counties except Montgomery and Prince George's, and one in Salisbury, serving the Eastern Shore. “Target has become a strong partner in the mission of the Maryland Food Bank to end hunger,” Maryland Food Bank CEO Deborah Flateman said. “We continue to build our relationships with good corporate citizens like Target so that one day, no Maryland man, woman, child or senior citizen will have to wonder where they will get their next meal.” Target is a strong supporter of organizations like the Maryland Food Bank. Since 2001, Target has given more than 46 million pounds in product donations to Feeding America. “Target is proud to partners with the Maryland Food Bank in support of an organization helping to meet this community’s needs,” said Asa Heath, a Target manager. Since 1946, Target has also given five percent of the company's income and millions of volunteer hours. Today, that translates into more than $3 million every week to support education, the arts, social services and volunteerism. Each dollar donated to the Maryland Food Bank can purchase nearly two pounds of food. -30-
08.17.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Congratulates New University Of Maryland President (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today congratulated Wallace Loh, the next President of the University of Maryland at College Park. Loh will take over the reins of the campus on November 1st of this year. Loh most recently served as provost and executive vice president at the University of Iowa. “As a University of Maryland alum, I am incredibly proud of the academic standards maintained by our state’s flagship institution of higher learning,” said Cummings. “I know that President Loh will continue that fine tradition and allow our facilities, staff and curriculum to continue to improve. The graduates of our state colleges and universities must be well-prepared with a diverse education, so they can lead our nation in the global marketplace of the future. I look forward to seeing President Loh lead the University of Maryland as they strive toward that lofty goal.” Before joining The University of Iowa, Loh served as dean and professor of public service and psychology at Seattle University (1999-2008), director of policy and chief policy adviser for the State of Washington's Office of the Governor (1997-99), vice chancellor for academic affairs and dean of faculties at the University of Colorado-Boulder (1995-97), and dean and professor of law at the University of Washington Law School (1990-95). During his service in Washington state government, Loh assembled and staffed then-Governor Gary Locke's blue-ribbon "2020 Commission on the Future of Postsecondary Education." Locke is currently the U.S. Secretary of Commerce. The commission's work led to the implementation of the "Washington Promise Scholarship," expanding affordable access to higher education to thousands of low- and middle-income students. -30-
08.11.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds Rapid Deployment Of HUD Programs Aimed At Foreclosure Prevention Congressman proud of legislation he championed, protecting against foreclosures. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today applauded President Obama and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), which announced implementation of the “bridge loan” program created by Congressman Cummings and included in the recently passed Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform legislation. Cummings participated in the historic House-Senate conference leading to the adoption of the bill in the House and Senate. The $1 billion Emergency Homeowners Loan Program (EHLP) will allow “bridge loans” through the HUD for homeowners facing foreclosure. Loans will be underwritten with remaining TARP allocations and will be delivered through a variety of state and non-profit entities. They will offer up to $50,000 interest-free for as long as 24 months; assisting borrowers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own, who are underemployed or who face debilitating medical bills. “By passing healthcare reform, and the incredible work we’ve done on Wall Street reform, this has truly been a historic session of Congress,” said Cummings. “Today, HUD is delivering on the promise made by the landmark Dodd-Frank legislation. I helped create the bridge loan program to help everyday, hard-working Americans; the same folks who we all see everyday in our neighborhoods. Four times in the last 15 months, I’ve had foreclosure prevention seminars in my District. On the average, about 1000 of these folks come out to get help saving their homes. Now, many of them will be able to get the help they have so desperately asked for, straight from the government.” With the EHLP loans, homeowners can bring mortgages up-to-date that are at least three months delinquent in payments, as well as maintaining insurance on their homes and paying relevant taxes. Borrowers must have a reasonable likelihood of resuming repayment of their mortgage and related expenses within the two year period. They must also be requesting the loan for the home that is their residence, must not own a second home, and must have demonstrated a good payment record prior to their income reduction. The Obama Administration also announced the expansion of the Housing Finance Agency Innovation Fund for Hardest Hit Housing Markets (also known as the Hardest Hit Fund). The Treasury Department will begin making $2 billion in additional funding available in the HHF for homeowners who face foreclosure and who live in states with unemployment rates at or above the national average. “America gained a reputation of coming to the rescue of those who are going through difficulties,” said Cummings. “That’s our moral authority. These are Americans who are looking for a hand up, not a hand out. They are saying, ‘If I can just get this bridge, I know the economy is going to come back; just help me get through this.’ That is what this is all about, trying to give Americans the small amount of help they need to get through this storm.” Cummings had three other housing-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank bill. One provision requires lenders to notify borrowers of all consequences of refinancing or purchasing a home equity loan, including the responsibility they may bear for any losses incurred in the event of a foreclosure. Another provision would require creditors to disclose their policy regarding the acceptance of partial payments for a residential mortgage loan. It would also require creditors to disclose how the payments will be applied to the residential mortgage and if the payments will be placed in escrow. Finally, the bill includes a provision that requires the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to issue its mortgage modification data by state. Although the OCC’s Mortgage Metrics Report is significant in providing greater transparency and accountability in the loan servicing area, its utility is severely limited by the fact that key data elements, such as the terms for mortgage loan modifications, are not provided on a state-by-state basis. -30-
08.10.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Votes To Keep Teachers, Firefighters, Police Officers On the Job Congressman supports funding that will also aid states with Medicaid payments. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today voted to approve H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act. The bill provides funding to keep police officers, teachers and firefighters on the job, and to make sure states can afford to pay doctors for Medicaid coverage. It will create or save 310,000 American jobs and will boost the private sector. Maryland will receive $175 million to fund 2,500 teaching positions. “Since the time people first joined together to accomplish things they could not achieve as individuals, there have been basic moral duties of government,” said Cummings. “We are charged with protecting the streets and cities from crime; putting out fires so entire neighborhoods do not burn to the ground; and educating children so that they will have a better life, and build a greater country. If we had shirked these responsibilities, if we had voted against funding these functions that are so critical to our nation’s vitality, we would be telling those who entrust us with both their hopes and their tax dollars that we are not capable of fulfilling the most basic expectations of our government.” The bill also includes $16.1 billion in Medicaid assistance for the states. Earlier this year, 42 governors wrote to Congress seeking the Medicaid assistance – including 26 Democrats and 16 Republicans. The 16 GOP Governors included Govs. Sonny Purdue (R-GA), Robert McDonnell (R-VA), Bob Riley (R-AL), Haley Barbour (R-MS), Mitch Daniels (R-IN), Jim Gibbons (R-NV), Sean Parnell (R-AK), Dave Heineman (R-NE), and Chris Christie (R-NJ). The bill passed the House XXX-XXX. -30-
08.06.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Continues The Fight To Prevent Foreclosures Congressman asks banks to improve customer service in mortgage modifications. (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today sent a letter to more than a dozen lenders throughout the Baltimore area that are engaged in mortgage modification procedures, particularly those participating in the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP). The letter asks for an accounting of each lenders practices, with regard to these mortgage modifications. HAMP is a program aimed at stemming the tide of foreclosures, while sharing responsibility among the government, the mortgage industry and individual borrowers. “I am concerned that HAMP servicers lack the infrastructure or the willingness to mitigate foreclosures in a consistent, transparent, or responsible manner, and in compliance with HAMP guidelines,” said Cummings, in the letter. “For instance, the 528,000 borrowers who have had their trial loan modifications fail far exceed the 389,000 borrowers who have entered permanent loan modifications. “As noted by the TARP Congressional Oversight Panel, the stories from housing counselors and borrowers that include, ‘servicers losing their paperwork, lacking adequate staff, failing to tell borrowers why they are being denied, and in some cases, failing to follow the program’s rules...’ come with enough frequency to raise questions about whether servicers are fully committed to HAMP’s success.” The letter requests an immediate response to nine specific concerns heard frequently by Congressman Cummings’ staff. Cummings has been a consistent and vocal crusader toward mitigating the wave of foreclosures striking the United States. Cummings has held four Foreclosure Prevention Seminars in the Baltimore area. These seminars have matched thousands of Marylanders to their lenders, in a one-on-one situation, allowing them to negotiate a debt solution, so that foreclosure can be avoided. Cummings also employs several constituent service staff members whose primary goal is working with Marylanders to avoid foreclosure. As a Congressman, Cummings has also taken legislative steps, including the billion-dollar “bridge loan” program he created and championed, which was folded into the recent Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform bill. The program creates small, low-interest loans for homeowners who are between jobs or need a small amount of assistance to return their mortgages to current status. -30-
08.03.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds Confirmation of Justice Elena KaganSenate confirms President Obama’s nominee (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today applauded the confirmation of the newest Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court, former Solicitor General Elena Kagan. “This is a triumph for President Obama, and for the nation,” said Cummings. “As an attorney, I understand the importance of having competent judges on our nation’s courts. However, to be elevated to the Supreme Court, a Justice must show an incredible ability to read and understand our Constitution and founding documents, to judge right from wrong, to choose between justice and injustice and they must have the intangible human qualities that help create a superior jurist. I believe Justice Kagan possesses these qualities, and I am ecstatic that she has been confirmed as our nation’s newest Associate Justice.” Kagan follows her mentor, Justice Thurgood Marshall, for whom she clerked, and who was Solicitor General as well. She also follows him as a Justice who ascends to the bench without prior experience as a judge. -30-
07.30.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Votes To Protect Environment, Better Regulate Drilling Congressman supports CLEAR Act, to address the causes of Gulf oil spill. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, today voted to pass H.R.3534, the Consolidated Land, Energy, and Aquatic Resources (CLEAR) Act of 2009. The CLEAR Act will sharpen the focus of the Federal Government agencies responsible for approval and oversight of offshore oil drilling, to ensure that Federal regulatory frameworks are equal to the risks of offshore energy production. “We owe it to our children, and to generations of Americans who are yet unborn, to do what we can to make sure this disaster is never repeated,” said Cummings. “I believe the CLEAR Act is an intelligent, effective and efficient way to make certain that the people of the United States are compensated for the use of our resources, are protected from future disasters, and are able to recover the full amount of any damages caused by oil spills resulting from drilling or oilfield production. “This, however, is only the first step. We must now move, as a Congress and as a country, toward renewable energy. Just as our nation moved from wood, to coal, to oil, we must continue our progress developing sources of renewable power that create good, American jobs. We must create American power which can never be controlled by countries hostile to the United States.” To prevent the regulatory lapses that contributed to the BP disaster, while preparing for potential spills and protecting coastal communities and waters, the CLEAR Act will: · hold BP and the oil industry fully responsible for cleanup costs and recovery after spills, including eliminating the $75 million cap on economic damages resulting from the BP oil spill; · create new safety measures, including independent certification of critical oil drilling and pumping equipment; · strengthen drilling oversight by dismantling the scandal ridden Minerals Management Service and replacing it with new oversight agencies; · restore the Gulf Coast while protecting local residents; and · provide taxpayer protection from damage liability by making oil companies pay their fair share for energy production on public lands. H.R. 3534 is the synthesis of several bills considered in various House committees, including the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, on which Congressman Cummings serves as a Senior Member. One crucial change in policy in the bill, created by the T & I Committee, will require vessels be U.S.-flag vessels owned by U.S. citizens if they are engaged in support of exploration, development, or production of resources, including oil and gas, in the Economic Exclusion Zone (EEZ) around the United States, including on the Outer Continental Shelf. The EEZ is an area 200 miles from the shore of the United States. This change in policy will ensure that these vessels are subject to U.S. safety regulations, employ U.S. citizens on board the vessel, and that U.S. taxes are paid on the operations of the vessel. Congressman Cummings also voted to pass H.R. 5851, the Offshore Oil and Gas Worker Whistleblower Protection Act, designed to protect workers who report violations or practices that endanger the public to state and federal government authorities. -30-
07.29.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Pleased To Approve THUD Appropriations Congressman votes in favor of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Department projects. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today voted with his colleagues in the House of Representatives to approve H.R. 5850, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for 2011. The bill will provide funding plans for projects throughout the United States. “As a senior member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, I know how critical these projects are,” said Cummings. “Not only do they allow our nation to move forward toward a 21st Century transportation grid and infrastructure system, but it will also allow the creation of construction and other jobs that are so badly needed by our nation.” Included in the Appropriations bill are three Congressionally-directed funding appropriations requested by Congressman Cummings: $650,000 for intersection improvements around State Center in Baltimore City. This project will improve the intersections around State Center, including Howard Street at Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. and Chase and Read Streets, while improving travel lanes on Eutaw Street. $650,000 for Route 1 Corridor Improvements Capital Project in Howard County, to design and construct streetscape improvements along Route 1 near Fort Meade. The project will also construct facilities to improve bicycle/pedestrian access. $1.5 million for the Red Line in Baltimore City to provide capital funds.-30-
07.27.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Pleased To Recognize 100th Anniversary of United States Coast Guard Academy Congressman leads passage of House Resolution to honor the birthplace of new Coast Guard leadership. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today managed the passage of H.Con.Res. 258, Congratulating the Commandant of the Coast Guard and the Superintendent of the Coast Guard Academy and its staff for 100 years of operation of the Coast Guard Academy in New London, Connecticut. Cummings serves as Chair of the House Subcommittee on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. “I was proud to shepherd this Resolution through the House of Representatives,” said Cummings. “The Coast Guard Academy has produced thousands of our nation’s best, brightest and bravest; the men and women of our United State Coast Guard. They function as our country’s last line of defense and so often as the first rescuers at the scene of an emergency. We, as a nation, owe them a tremendous debt of gratitude, both for their work in the classrooms of the Academy, and their service under the flag of this great land. I congratulate the Coast Guard Academy for a wonderful 100 years and hope they will continue producing the leaders of tomorrow for 100 years to come.” The School of Instruction to the U.S. Revenue Cutter Academy was established at Fort Trumbull in New London, Connecticut, in 1910, and later became known as the Coast Guard Academy after the consolidation of the Life Saving Service and the Revenue Cutter Service in 1915. The Academy moved to its present location along the banks of the Thames River in 1932. In1946, the former German Navy training vessel HORST WESSEL was acquired by the United States for use by the Coast Guard and renamed EAGLE, which today travels around the world each year. Today, the Coast Guard Academy is a highly competitive educational institution that attracts driven, committed leaders who go on to serve our Nation in the many diverse roles played by our Coast Guard. The rigorous academic program of the Coast Guard Academy provides a holistic education that includes academics, physical fitness, character, and leadership, and that trains cadets in the multiple roles of the Coast Guard's multimission responsibilities. -30-
07.26.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Recognizes 20th Anniversary of Americans With Disabilities Act Congressman proud to see disabled colleague preside over House of Representatives. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today recognized the 20th anniversary of the landmark passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The Act created “a clear and comprehensive national mandate for the elimination of discrimination against individuals with disabilities.” Monday afternoon, Rhode Island Congressman James Langevin, the first quadriplegic to serve in Congress, was lifted to the podium in the well of the House of Representatives, where he presided as Speaker Pro Tempore of the House. Langevin was the first wheelchair-bound Representative to serve in that capacity. “The courage shown by Jim Langevin is but an echo of the staggering courage shown by those throughout this nation who have been helped by this historic piece of legislation,” said Cummings. “Our nation has always been one in which all Americans are created equal, and must be allowed an equal chance to live their American Dream. The Americans with Disabilities Act has provided that opportunity for millions. I applaud the work of my colleagues who fought so hard to get the Act passed, and those who work today to ensure that it continues to allow disabled Americans the rights they deserve.” ADA was signed by President George H.W. Bush on July 26, 1990. -30-
07.21.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Pleased To Finally See Help Come For Unemployed Americans Congressman joins colleagues in vote to help those who lost their job through no fault of their own. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today was pleased to join his House colleagues in voting for H.R.4213, the Restoration of Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act. The bill returned to the House of Representatives Tuesday after passing the Senate. H.R. 4213 will extend unemployment insurance (UI) benefits to millions of Americans families. This is urgently needed after weeks of Senate Republicans’ ongoing obstruction of job creating legislation that extended critical unemployment insurance benefits to help Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. “We cannot allow people who have lost everything to have their hope taken as well,” said Cummings. “Nearly two million American families were without their economic lifeline thanks to Republican obstruction in the Senate. I am happy to finally get a chance to help these Americans; most of whom have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. “Every dollar we spend today returns almost double that amount into our economy. With the action we took today, we are keeping families in their homes, avoiding the deterioration of our workforce potential, and continuing the tradition of empathy that Americans have always shown for those in need.” H.R. 4213 will extend the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) and Extended Benefits programs through November 30, 2010. The legislation retroactively restores benefits to people who may have started losing their benefits as early as the end of May. -30-
07.16.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Joins Health Professionals, Religious Leaders To Encourage HIV/AIDS Testing Faith-based and community organizations to open testing centers throughout Baltimore area. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) will join medical professionals, faith leaders, and volunteers at a press conference next Monday, July 19, to announce the opening of 15 HIV/AIDS testing sites located at area churches. Cummings will join Dr. Heather Hauck, of the Infectious Disease and Environmental Health Administration, Derek Spencer, Executive Director of the JACQUES Initiative, and Pastor Ellis Prince of the Gallery Church. Volunteers from states along the East Coast and as far away as Alaska will descend upon Baltimore to offer community services and encourage Baltimoreans to know their HIV status and get tested. The JACQUES Initiative, a program at the Institute of Human Virology (IHV) of the University of Maryland School of Medicine, in partnership with the Maryland Infectious Disease and Environmental Health Administration and several local faith-based and community organizations, has formed many partnerships to reach the community, including faith-based organizations. Faith-based volunteers have already begun HIV testing and counseling training, sponsored by Maryland Infectious Disease and Environmental Health Administration, with the support of the JACQUES. Initiative. WHAT: Press Conference to launch Day of HIV/AIDS Testing at 15 Faith-based Sites WHO: Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD); Dr. Heather Hauck, Infectious Disease and Environmental Health Administration; Derek Spencer, MS CRNP, Executive Director, JACQUES Initiative; Ellis Prince, Pastor, Gallery Church Baltimore; and community volunteers. WHEN: 10:00 a.m., Monday, July 19, 2010 WHERE: 7th Metro Church, 30 E. North Avenue, Baltimore, MD 21201 -30-
07.16.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) will be honored Friday evening, by the Maryland Minority Contractors Association (MMCA), for “appearing to eat and sleep advocacy for minority and small business, in today’s environment of Recovery.” The MMCA is a non-profit corporation which assists and mentors MBE/WBE members in transforming their business ideas and dreams into tomorrow’s great enterprises. They also monitor and advocate for legislation and programs that positively affect minority businesses. “As we in Congress continue to work hard to create jobs, it is particularly rewarding to be honored by this group,” said Cummings. “Small businesses are the engines that drive our nation’s economy, and minority small businesses will be the catalyst to improve every aspect of our minority communities. I thank the MMCA for this honor and I will work to continue to deserve it.” The dinner is scheduled to begin at 6:30 p.m. Friday evening, at New Martins, 594 Cranbrook Road, Hunt Valley/Cockeysville. -30-
07.15.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds Passage Of Wall Street Reform Bill Congressman proud of legislation he championed, protecting against foreclosures. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today applauded Senate passage of H.R. 4173, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Cummings participated in the historic House-Senate conference which led to the adoption of the bill in the House. Cummings’ efforts also provided four critical pieces of legislation contained within the Dodd-Frank Act to protect American homeowners. The first, and most sweeping reform championed by Cummings is the creation of a $1 billion fund, underwritten with remaining TARP allocations, allowing “bridge loans” to homeowners who are facing foreclosure. These low-interest loans, administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, would allow homeowners to stay current on their mortgages during times of need. “Here we have a program intended to help everyday, hard-working Americans; the same folks who live in all of our districts,” said Cummings, in a speech to the Conference committee. “Four times in the last 15 months, I’ve had foreclosure prevention seminars in my District. On the average, about 1000 people come out. They are Black, they are White, they are Hispanic… and they are in tears. “America has gained a large amount of its reputation by the fact that we come to the rescue of those who are going through difficulties. That’s our moral authority. These are Americans who are looking for a bridge. A lot of these people are saying, ‘If I can just get this bridge, I know the economy is going to come back; just help me get through this.’ That is what this is all about, trying to give Americans a bridge.” Cummings has three other provisions in the Dodd-Frank bill. One provision requires lenders to notify borrowers of all consequences of refinancing or purchasing a home equity loan, including the responsibility they may bear for any losses incurred in the event of a foreclosure. Another provision would require creditors to disclose their policy regarding the acceptance of partial payments for a residential mortgage loan. It would also require creditors to disclose how the payments will be applied to the residential mortgage and if the payments will be placed in escrow. Finally, the bill includes a provision that requires the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to issue its mortgage modification data by state. Although the OCC’s Mortgage Metrics Report is significant in providing greater transparency and accountability in the loan servicing area, its utility is severely limited by the fact that key data elements, such as the terms for mortgage loan modifications, are not provided on a state-by-state basis. H.R. 4173 still must be signed into law by President Obama. -30-
07.12.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Congratulates Howard County Columbia, Ellicott City, voted second-best place to live in America. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today congratulated the twin Howard County cities of Columbia and Ellicott City, which were named the second-best place to live in America by CNNMoney. The cities finished behind only Eden Prarie, MN in the annual Top 100 Best Places To Live. “Ellicott City boasts grand homes, a lovely 18th-century downtown, and lots of restaurants,” read the article, in part. “Columbia offers a wide range of housing, tons of parkland, and a major music venue. But those varied amenities are far from the only reasons this duo has risen to No. 2 from No. 8 in 2008. It's also an economic powerhouse with a jobless rate just as enviable as Eden Prairie's.” Parts of both cities are the in Seventh Congressional District, represented by Cummings. “I could not be happier for Howard County,” said Cummings. “The residents of Howard County, [Howard County Executive] Ken Ulman, and Howard County government are to be commended for the quality of life that they have worked so hard to build. I am very pleased that all of America will now know what we in Maryland have known for decades. This state is truly one of the best places in which to live in the entire United States.” The full Best Places To Live article can be viewed online at: https://money.cnn.com/magazines/moneymag/bplive/2010/index.html -30-
07.04.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Celebrates Independence Day (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) encourages all Marylanders to have a safe, festive Fourth of July weekend, as we celebrate the 234th anniversary of the Independence of our nation. “Our nation continues to be a wonderful experiment, the likes of which the world has never seen,” said Cummings. “Our independence was never assured. Our forefathers had to fight everyday to make this nation free. “Now, more than 200 years later, we continue to work hard to make their dreams a continuing reality. I urge all Marylanders to celebrate with their families, and to remember the work we have done in the past year, while imagining the greatness we can attain in the year to come. That is the spirit of America; no matter how many times we are down, we have the indomitable spirit to pick ourselves up and continue to move forward as one people.” -30-
07.02.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Concerned With Jobs Plateau Private sector jobs increase and total unemployment decrease in June, while government sheds jobs. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the Joint Economic Committee, today released a statement following the announcement by the Bureau of Labor Statistics that while unemployment is down to 9.5 percent, 125,000 people lost their jobs last month. Private industry added 83,000 positions, but those additions were overshadowed by 208,000 government positions being cut, including a large number of Census workers who finished their temporary employment. “It is clear that the inability of the Senate to pass the major job creation and tax credit programs passed by House Democrats is having an effect,” said Cummings. “We are still creating private sector jobs, but not enough of them. This week, I was proud to see the House Conference report on Wall Street Reform accepted and approved. We have made major changes on Wall Street, helping to ensure that the financial catastrophe, which cost so many jobs, will never happen again. “However, it is not enough. People on Main Street are still losing their homes. They are clearly still losing their jobs. We cannot allow them to lose hope. When we return from the July 4th holiday, we must continue to help free up credit, encourage job growth, and put America back to work. One job lost is one too many.” -30-
07.02.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Supports Oil Spill Accountability Bill Congressman has taken two trips to Gulf, seen damage and loss in person. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) commended the passage by a voice vote of H.R. 5629, the Oil Spill Accountability and Environmental Protection Act of 2010 through the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Cummings also called for the bill to be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives as soon as possible. Cummings is one of 9 original co-sponsors of the bill. “Our Committee and Subcommittee hearings on the Deepwater Horizon have proven one essential fact: the United States can do better and we must do better,” said Cummings. “I have been to the Gulf twice now. Each time, there was so much to see and learn about this tragedy. Having learned about the spill and its effects, I believe this bill will make changes our nation badly needs. “This bill will give the President and the nation the chance to make sure that BP, and any future offshore energy company that destroys our environment, truly pay what they owe. It will make sure that safeguards are in effect so nothing like this ever happens again. Finally, it will make certain that our regulators and the Coast Guard have the opportunity to make sure those safeguards are installed and operating.” H.R. 5629 will make certain that only American-owned and American-crewed vessels are operating on the outer Continental Shelf, also ensuring they have been properly inspected and are operating under the control of a licensed master. Because they are owned and crewed by Americans, they will be subjected to U.S. safety requirements and their owners will pay U.S. taxes. The legislation will give the Coast Guard and other government agencies both the regulations and personnel they need to do their jobs. “In the past, though it is responsible for overseeing the response to spills from such facilities, the Coast Guard had no role in approving facilities’ response plans,” said Cummings. “We must close this gap. Also, as many of my colleagues have noted, for too long, the Coast Guard has had to do more with less. The Americanization of the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone will certainly create new work responsibilities for the Coast Guard. We must ensure they are properly funded and staffed. This bill will do exactly that.” H.R. 5629 will also eliminate all liability caps for offshore facilities and requires these facilities to demonstrate financial responsibility of $1.5 billion. Also, thanks to provisions championed by Chairman Cummings, this legislation reduces from 90 days to 45 days the amount of time a responsible party or guarantor has to settle claims presented to them. If claims remain unsettled at this time, they can then be presented to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. By shortening this time frame, we can ensure that Americans – many of whom now are facing the loss of their livelihoods for the foreseeable future – can quickly get the help they need. -30-
07.01.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds Coast Guard Academy Diversity Efforts Congressman has been a constant champion of increasing diversity in both Academy and Coast Guard ranks. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, was pleased to learn of increasing diversity at the United States Coast Guard Academy. The Coast Guard Academy's Class of 2014 reported for training on June 28. At that time, 199 male and 90 female cadets were sworn into the class. The gender diversity of the Coast Guard Academy has consistently increased in the past several years. Thus, the Class of 2012 was comprised of only 29 percent female cadets while the Class of 2014 is 31 percent female. Along with gender diversity, nearly 24 percent of the incoming class are non-Caucasian, including 35 Hispanic Americans, 15 African Americans, and 13 Asian Americans. By comparison, the Class of 2012, which was sworn in 2008, was comprised of only 12 percent of cadets who identified themselves as an ethnic minority. “Such improved diversity at the Coast Guard Academy is great news,” said Cummings. “ I have consistently asked that the Academy work on this matter, and these numbers show they have done exactly that. While the goal of the Coast Guard Academy is and remains to produce the best possible Coast Guardsmen and women to protect our nation, I believe the Coast Guard and indeed our nation are best served by having those men and women be fully representative of the diversity of America. With that in mind, I look forward to seeing even more diverse classes of cadets graduating from the Academy in the coming years.” In April, Chairman Cummings convened a hearing regarding civil rights programs and diversity initiatives in the United States Coast Guard. The hearing examined a report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) concerning changes made by the Coast Guard’s Civil Rights Directorate. The Subcommittee also examined diversity at the Coast Guard Academy. -30-
06.30.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds House Passage Of Wall Street Reform Bill Congressman proud of legislation he championed, protecting against foreclosures. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 4173, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Cummings participated in the historic House-Senate conference which led to the adoption of the bill, and provided four critical pieces of legislation contained within the Dodd-Frank Act to protect American homeowners. “This is the most important improvement in the regulation of Wall Street since the Great Depression,” said Cummings. “This bill will create transparency, accountability and clarity in our markets that we have never had before. “More importantly, it will protect consumers, the folks on Main Street. That includes the people in my district who have lost their jobs, who are close to losing their homes, and who are losing hope. I am proud that some of the legislation I helped create will be passed into law, and will help those who are trying their hardest to weather this storm.” The first, and most sweeping reform championed by Cummings is the creation of a $1 billion fund, underwritten with remaining TARP allocations, allowing “bridge loans” to homeowners who are facing foreclosure. These low-interest loans, administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, would allow homeowners to stay current on their mortgages during times of need. Cummings has three other provisions in the Dodd-Frank bill. One provision requires lenders to notify borrowers of all consequences of refinancing or purchasing a home equity loan, including the responsibility they may bear for any losses incurred in the event of a foreclosure. Another provision would require creditors to disclose their policy regarding the acceptance of partial payments for a residential mortgage loan. It would also require creditors to disclose how the payments will be applied to the residential mortgage and if the payments will be placed in escrow. Finally, the bill includes a provision that requires the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to issue its mortgage modification data by state. Although the OCC’s Mortgage Metrics Report is significant in providing greater transparency and accountability in the loan servicing area, its utility is severely limited by the fact that key data elements, such as the terms for mortgage loan modifications, are not provided on a state-by-state basis. -30-
06.30.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Votes To Help Unemployed Americans Congressman continues the fight for Main Street. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today voted to pass H.R. 5618, the Restoration of Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act. The bill passed the House of Representatives and will now be sent to the Senate. H.R. 5618 will extend unemployment insurance (UI) benefits to millions of Americans families. This is urgently needed after weeks of Senate Republicans’ ongoing obstruction of job creating legislation that extended critical unemployment insurance benefits to help Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. “We cannot allow people who have lost everything to have their hope taken as well,” said Cummings. “Nearly two million American families are without their economic lifeline because of the latest Republican obstruction in the Senate. We will not abandon these families. It is time to put aside partisan politics and start standing with the American people.” H.R. 5618 would extend the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) and Extended Benefits programs through November 30, 2010. The legislation would retroactively restore benefits to people who may have started losing their benefits as early as the end of May. -30-
06.29.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Urges Passage Of Wall Street Reform Bill Congressman proud of legislation he championed, protecting against foreclosures. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today urged his colleagues to pass H.R. 4173, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Cummings participated in the historic House-Senate conference which led to the adoption of the bill, and provided four critical pieces of legislation contained within the Dodd-Frank Act to protect American homeowners. The first, and most sweeping reform championed by Cummings is the creation of a $1 billion fund, underwritten with remaining TARP allocations, allowing “bridge loans” to homeowners who are facing foreclosure. These low-interest loans, administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, would allow homeowners to stay current on their mortgages during times of need. “Here we have a program intended to help everyday, hard-working Americans; the same folks who live in all of our districts,” said Cummings, in a speech to the Conference committee. “Four times in the last 15 months, I’ve had foreclosure prevention seminars in my District. On the average, about 1000 people come out. They are Black, they are White, they are Hispanic… and they are in tears. “America has gained a large amount of its reputation by the fact that we come to the rescue of those who are going through difficulties. That’s our moral authority. These are Americans who are looking for a bridge. A lot of these folks are saying, if I can just get this bridge, I know the economy is going to come back; just help me get through this. That is what this is all about, trying to give Americans a bridge.” Cummings has three other provisions in the Dodd-Frank bill. One provision requires lenders to notify borrowers of all consequences of refinancing or purchasing a home equity loan, including the responsibility they may bear for any losses incurred in the event of a foreclosure. Another provision would require creditors to disclose their policy regarding the acceptance of partial payments for a residential mortgage loan. It would also require creditors to disclose how the payments will be applied to the residential mortgage and if the payments will be placed in escrow. Finally, the bill includes a provision that requires the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to issue its mortgage modification data by state. Although the OCC’s Mortgage Metrics Report is significant in providing greater transparency and accountability in the loan servicing area, its utility is severely limited by the fact that key data elements, such as the terms for mortgage loan modifications, are not provided on a state-by-state basis. H.R. 4173 is scheduled to come to a vote in both houses of Congress this week. -30-
06.28.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today released a statement regarding the passing of Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia. Senator Byrd passed away Monday morning at the age of 92, after being hospitalized briefly over the weekend. “The people of West Virginia have lost a champion and the people of the United States have lost a legend,” said Congressman Cummings. “Senator Byrd never forgot who elected him to the United States Congress. He constantly fought to help improve the lives of the people of West Virginia, and for the ideals he felt most represented the Constitution that guides our nation. “It was with these ideals in mind that Senator Byrd fought the forces who would turn the Congress into a servant of the Presidency, rather than a co-equal body of government. Each man and woman who takes the oath of office in this branch of government owes a tremendous debt to Senator Byrd for waging that battle. We will miss him greatly. I pray for his family and friends in their time of great loss, and for the state of West Virginia, that they may find someone worthy of his seat.” Well into his 51st year of service in the United States Senate, Senator Byrd had served longer in that body than any other American. He also served six years in the House of Representatives, and was thus the longest-serving Congressperson in U.S. history. -30-
06.25.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, DC) – After 20 straight hours of negotiation, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) along with a bicameral Conference Committee completed the efforts to reconcile the House and Senate versions of H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Cummings was named to the Conference by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, representing the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. “After many hours of arduous debate, I am proud of what we were able to accomplish with this critical piece of legislation,” Congressman Cummings said. “With this bill, we took a giant step forward to protect consumers from irresponsible and unconscionable practices on Wall Street, and we put measures in place to ensure our economy never suffers another economic crisis that would put us on the brink of collapse.” The bill will include a new consumer financial protection bureau; it limits the amount of fees debit card companies can charge merchants, gives the government the power to break up failing financial firms and forces transparency of the $600 trillion derivatives market. The bill is set for a final vote in the House and Senate next week. -30-
06.23.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} (Washington, DC) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) today voted to pass H.R. 5481, To give subpoena power to the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling. The Commission, which was established by Executive Order and based on H.R. 5241, the BP Deepwater Horizon Disaster Inquiry Commission Act of 2010 introduced in the House in early May, will investigate the causes of BP’s devastating oil spill in the Gulf and report back to the President with recommendations for how to prevent and mitigate the impact of any future spills that result from offshore drilling. “It is essential that the bipartisan Commission be given the necessary resources to ensure that BP and others involved in the spill can not hide from this investigation,” said Cummings. “In order to conduct an efficient and effective analysis of the failures that led to this tragedy and reevaluate future plans for oil and gas drilling, the Commission needs every tool available.” The President has committed the full cooperation of the federal government to the Commission and its mandate. But he does not have the authority to give the Commission subpoena power through an Executive Order so Congressional action is necessary to give the Commission this essential investigatory tool. The bill passed by a vote of 420-1, with two members voting “present”. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) has introduced companion legislation in the Senate (S. 3462), but attempts to bring the bill to the floor under unanimous consent have been blocked by Senate Republicans. “No Member of Congress should be against giving the Commission this important tool, and I would hope the Senate is able to move this legislation as quickly as possible,” said Cummings. -30-
06.22.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Spearheads Recognition Of Men’s Health Week (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) was pleased with passage today of his House Resolution supporting the goals of Men’s Health Week. H. Con. Res. 288, “Supporting National Men's Health Week” was approved without debate. “Despite advances in medical technology and research, men continue to live an average of more than 5 years less than women, and African American men have the lowest life expectancy of all groups,” said Cummings, in a prepared statement. “Further, 9 of the 10 leading causes of death, as defined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, affect men at a higher percentage than women. “Men simply are not getting the care they need. Women are twice as likely as men to visit the doctor for annual examinations and preventive services. Men are less likely than women to visit their health center or physician for regular screening examinations of gender-related problems for a variety of reasons, including fear, lack of health insurance, lack of information, and cost factors. The disparity in men’s health has led to increased risk of death from heart disease and cancer.” Cummings’ resolution, co-sponsored by more than 55 Representatives, recognizes June 14 - 20, 2010 as Men’s Health Week. Recognition of the week was established by Congress in June 1994 and is now observed each June by all 50 states, many cities, localities, public health departments, health care entities, churches, and community organizations throughout the Nation that promote health awareness events focused on men and family. -30-
06.21.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds Beginning Of FDA Crackdown On Tobacco Congressman proud to have voted to help save American children from tobacco addiction. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today recognized the one-year anniversary of the passage of H.R. 1256, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, a bill which ceded regulation of tobacco and tobacco products to the Food and Drug Administration, giving a regulator to these products for the first time in American history. Because of this action taken by Congress and approved by the President several landmark regulations to control tobacco use by children will begin Tuesday. “Our children are our living messages we send to a future that we will never see,” said Cummings. “Because of the action we took a year ago, and that the FDA has begun since that day, those children will have a better opportunity to live without the lung cancer, the emphysema and the general health problems that have plagued so many Americans who ingested the poisons present in many tobacco products. This is a concrete example of a measure passed by this Congress of which Americans can be proud.” Since Congress passed the new regulations, the FDA has: · Established the Center for Tobacco Products. · Established the tobacco user fee program, funding FDA tobacco regulation support activities. · Begun enforcing the Congressional prohibition on manufacturing, distributing or selling certain flavored cigarettes, such as spice-, fruit-, and candy-flavored cigarettes. · Implemented new statutory authorities, under which tobacco product manufactures have registered their establishments and listed their products with the FDA, provided detailed information about product ingredients and their own research into the health effects of their products. · Convened an advisory committee to study the impact of menthol cigarettes on the public health. Starting Tuesday, some of the most important regulation enabled by the Congressional legislation becomes effective: · FDA rules will limit the sale, distribution, and marketing of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco to protect the health of children and adolescents. · Provisions will prohibit the advertising or labeling of tobacco products with the descriptors “light,” “mild,” or “low” or similar descriptors. · Requirements of new, larger health warning labels for smokeless tobacco products begin to be displayed on smokeless tobacco packaging. · All tobacco-brand sponsorships of sports and entertainment events will be prohibited. · Virtually all free tobacco samples and giveaways of non-tobacco items, such as hats and T-shirts, with the purchase of tobacco will be banned. · Sale of cigarettes in packs of less than 20 will be banned. This will eliminate so-called "kiddie packs" that make cigarettes more affordable and appealing to kids. · Stores will be required to place cigarettes and other tobacco products behind the counter, out of reach of children. · Vending machines and self-service displays will be limited to adult-only facilities. · A nationwide prohibition will be established on tobacco sales to children under 18, creating tough federal enforcement and penalties against retailers who sell to minors. “Regulating the tobacco industry through the FDA was a step that was necessary,” said Cummings. “I am pleased to see they have been both efficient and effective in the work they have done to help move Americans away from tobacco addiction once and for all.” -30-
06.15.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds Passage Of First Stage Of Small Business Aid Congressman votes to encourage availability of credit for “engines of the economy”. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) was proud today to vote for H.R. 5486, the Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act of 2010. This legislation will spur investment to small businesses, while offering tax incentives to help small businesses grow, hire, and fuel our economy. The bill is fully paid for and complies with pay-as-you-go budget law. “There must be no more important concern for this Congress right now than putting Americans back to work,” said Cummings. “Small businesses are responsible for creating the majority of the jobs in our nation, and have been for years. The only way we can get our economy moving again is to make sure entrepreneurs on Main Street have the capital they need to expand and to put our fellow Americans back to work. I am proud to help move that process along, and I will continue to fight every day to create good American jobs.” The bill increases the capital gains tax cut for those who invest in small businesses this year. The bill would exclude 100% of capital gain income for stock in small businesses purchased from March 15, 2010 to January 1, 2011. It also fixes a tax shelter disclosure penalty that disproportionately impacts small businesses. This measure was endorsed by the Small Business Council of America, and makes penalties for failing to disclose reportable transactions on their taxes proportionate to the tax savings for small businesses. Finally, there is an increase in tax deductions for a start-up business. The deduction for start-up costs will increase to $20,000 and allow more businesses to qualify for the maximum deduction. By allowing entrepreneurs to recover more start-up expenses, small business owners can focus more on hiring new workers and growing their businesses. To pay for these credits, the bill closes tax loopholes permitting a tax credit for crude tall oil (a waste byproduct like black liquor) and allowing rich families to pass on wealth while cutting their estate and gift taxes. -30-
06.14.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds Arrival Of Medicare Reimbursement Checks Congressman notes that health care reform bill has shown immediate benefits. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) was pleased that many Maryland seniors began receiving Medicare reimbursement checks today. Last week, Medicare began mailing out to tens of thousands of seniors $250 ‘donut hole’ checks. Under the recently enacted health reform law, seniors who fall in the donut hole coverage gap in 2010 will receive this one-time tax-free $250 rebate check. These checks will continue to be mailed monthly over the next several months as seniors enter the coverage gap. The checks are just the first benefit from health reform for seniors in the Medicare Prescription Drug program. Beginning in January 2011, seniors in the donut hole will receive a 50% discount on brand name drugs. By 2020, the donut hole will be completely closed. “Prescription drugs cost many Marylanders thousands of dollars a year,” said Cummings. “This check is a down payment on reducing prescription drug costs for seniors and eventually closing the donut hole altogether. This is only the first example of how the health care reform bill will strengthen Medicare and help seniors.” The Republican Prescription Drug bill created a donut hole – leaving thousands of seniors to choose between buying the prescriptions they need and putting food on the table. The ‘donut hole’ coverage gap is the period in the prescription drug benefit, once personal prescription drug costs exceed $2,830, in which the beneficiary pays 100 percent of the cost of their drugs until they hit the catastrophic coverage threshold. Last year, more than 63,000 Medicare beneficiaries in Maryland fell in the donut hole, while receiving no extra help to defray the cost of their prescription drugs. Now, under health reform, help is on the way. Medicare recipients do not have to do anything to get the $250 check. Once their drug costs for the year hit $2,830 the one-time check will be issued automatically. Other benefits for seniors included in health care reform were: · Free preventive care services under Medicare, beginning in 2011. · Strengthening Medicare by extending its solvency by an additional 12 years, from 2017 to 2029. · Improves seniors’ access to doctors. · Continuing to reduce waste, fraud and abuse. · Improving care by helping doctors communicate and coordinate. · Expanding home and community-based services to keep seniors in their homes, instead of in nursing homes. -30-
06.10.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Begins Work On Wall Street Reform Conference Congressman will work to protect Americans from future economic disaster. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today will join a bicameral Conference in their efforts to reconcile the House and Senate versions of H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009. Cummings was named to the Conference by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, representing the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. “I am proud to be working on such a critical piece of legislation,” said Cummings. “It is crucial to this nation that we get this right. Our responsibility is to those whose retirement savings were destroyed by this economic downturn; it is to those who have been thrown out of their homes; and it is to those who want to invest in the United States, and who demand a clean, transparent, accountable marketplace. “Congress investigated every aspect of the economic collapse. Now we will take the steps needed to protect our economy for the future of our children and for generations yet unborn. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House, on both sides of the aisle, as well as my friends in the Senate on this essential bill.” Along with his work in the Conference, Congressman Cummings championed four pieces of important legislation in the House version of the Wall Street reform bill that he hopes will be retained. The first provides $3 billion from TARP to be used to create “bridge loans” for Americans who have lost their jobs and are in danger of foreclosure. The proposed loans would be temporary, low-interest loans, facilitated through The Department of Housing and Urban Development for foreclosure assistance for the unemployed. The legislation is partially as a result of a letter Congressman Cummings sent to HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan in November of last year. Cummings’ letter to Donovan read, in part, “…We must find a way to assist those who have fallen victim to circumstances beyond their control. There are untapped viable policy options, and I wholeheartedly encourage you to not close the door on any mechanism that may allow an economic recovery for all Americans.” Second, is a provision requiring lenders to notify borrowers of all consequences of refinancing or purchasing a home equity loan, including the responsibility they may bear for any losses incurred in the event of a foreclosure. Third, a provision would require creditors to disclose their policy regarding the acceptance of partial payments for a residential mortgage loan. It would also require creditors to disclose how the payments will be applied to the residential mortgage and if the payments will be placed in escrow. Fourth, a provision that requires the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to issue its mortgage modification data by state. This language follows up on an amendment that Cummings worked to get included in Section 104 of the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act (PL 111-22), requiring OCC and the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision to issue mandatory mortgage modification data collection and reporting requirements for the banks they regulate. Although the OCC’s Mortgage Metrics Report is significant in providing greater transparency and accountability in the loan servicing area, its utility is severely limited by the fact that key data elements, such as the terms for mortgage loan modifications, are not provided on a state-by-state basis. The Conference will begin Thursday afternoon at 2:15, with the likely election of Congressman Barney Frank as Chair. -30-
06.10.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Begins Work On Wall Street Reform Conference Congressman will work to protect Americans from future economic disaster. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today will join a bicameral Conference in their efforts to reconcile the House and Senate versions of H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009. Cummings was named to the Conference by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, representing the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. “I am proud to be working on such a critical piece of legislation,” said Cummings. “It is crucial to this nation that we get this right. Our responsibility is to those whose retirement savings were destroyed by this economic downturn; it is to those who have been thrown out of their homes; and it is to those who want to invest in the United States, and who demand a clean, transparent, accountable marketplace. “Congress investigated every aspect of the economic collapse. Now we will take the steps needed to protect our economy for the future of our children and for generations yet unborn. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House, on both sides of the aisle, as well as my friends in the Senate on this essential bill.” Along with his work in the Conference, Congressman Cummings championed four pieces of important legislation in the House version of the Wall Street reform bill that he hopes will be retained. The first provides $3 billion from TARP to be used to create “bridge loans” for Americans who have lost their jobs and are in danger of foreclosure. The proposed loans would be temporary, low-interest loans, facilitated through The Department of Housing and Urban Development for foreclosure assistance for the unemployed. The legislation is partially as a result of a letter Congressman Cummings sent to HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan in November of last year. Cummings’ letter to Donovan read, in part, “…We must find a way to assist those who have fallen victim to circumstances beyond their control. There are untapped viable policy options, and I wholeheartedly encourage you to not close the door on any mechanism that may allow an economic recovery for all Americans.” Second, is a provision requiring lenders to notify borrowers of all consequences of refinancing or purchasing a home equity loan, including the responsibility they may bear for any losses incurred in the event of a foreclosure. Third, a provision would require creditors to disclose their policy regarding the acceptance of partial payments for a residential mortgage loan. It would also require creditors to disclose how the payments will be applied to the residential mortgage and if the payments will be placed in escrow. Fourth, a provision that requires the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) to issue its mortgage modification data by state. This language follows up on an amendment that Cummings worked to get included in Section 104 of the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act (PL 111-22), requiring OCC and the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision to issue mandatory mortgage modification data collection and reporting requirements for the banks they regulate. Although the OCC’s Mortgage Metrics Report is significant in providing greater transparency and accountability in the loan servicing area, its utility is severely limited by the fact that key data elements, such as the terms for mortgage loan modifications, are not provided on a state-by-state basis. The Conference will begin Thursday afternoon at 2:15, with the likely election of Congressman Barney Frank as Chair. -30-
06.10.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Speaks On Oil Spill Response Funding BillCongressman demands passage of bill funding Coast Guard and other Federal efforts. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today spoke on the House floor, encouraging passage of S. 3473, “To amend the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 to authorize advances from Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund for the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.” As Chairman of the House Subcommittee on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, Congressman Cummings has consistently pushed for strong oversight of BP to ensure that such a tragedy is never repeated. “This allows us to act with the urgency of now,” Cummings said during his floor speech. “There are people suffering.” The bill will allow multiple advances from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund as needed, up to a maximum of $100,000,000 for each advance. The new authority is essential to ensure that the Coast Guard is authorized to draw down from the main principal in the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund into the emergency fund to fund ongoing operations. “We must give our people in the Gulf the funds and equipment they need to continue fighting against the effects of this disastrous spill,” said Cummings. “This bill will allow that to happen. However, it will also insure that the companies responsible for this devastation of our environment and our way of life are made to pay in full for their transgressions.” Though the bill is passing through the Federal government, all costs for the oil spill will be paid by BP. In fact, the Obama Administration has already sent BP the first of what will be many bills. S. 3473 is an administrative bill that is essential to ensuring that ongoing governmental response to the spill is not interrupted. -30-
06.10.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Votes To Protect American Homeowners Congressman demands better risk protection and criminal prosecution by Federal Housing Administration. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today voted to approve H.R. 5072, the FHA Reform Act of 2010, helping American families realize their dream of homeownership, saving taxpayers money, and protecting Americans from mortgage fraud by instituting reforms to the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). “American families all over this nation are suffering,” said Cummings. “They tried to live the American dream and because of the economic downturn and unscrupulous tactics in the lending market, they are being forced from their homes. The reforms we approved today will help rebuild the housing market, while protecting families from the sort of mortgage scams and fraud that devastated the economy and caused so many to lose their homes. It is time to put American families and Main Street first. That means protecting families and their homes and saving taxpayers billions of dollars in the process.” The Federal Housing Administration Reform Act will save taxpayers $2.5 billion over five years and make crucial reforms to strengthen the operation of the FHA, which has helped 37 million Americans buy homes since 1934. This will help families realize the dream of homeownership, especially low-income and minority families, through responsible lending. Reforms in the legislation will also help protect Americans from mortgage scams and fraudulent lenders by modernizing and strengthening the FHA’s ability to analyze risk and go after lenders who violate regulations. The bill also makes the FHA more accountable by improving its internal reporting systems and providing greater transparency to the public and Congress. The FHA Reform Act is supported by a wide coalition of organizations, including the National Urban League, the National Association of Realtors, the Mortgage Bankers Association, the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, and the National Association of Home Builders. -30-
05.28.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds Passage Of National Defense Authorization Act Authorization includes extension of diversity study championed by Maryland Congressman. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today voted to pass H.R. 5136, the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2011. This defense bill aligns United States military strategy with the 21st Century, focusing on the threats of today and preparing for tomorrows challenges. H.R. 5136 strengthens counterterrorism efforts by providing tools needed by the military to disrupt, dismantle, and eventually defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies. For example, it enhances the capacity of the U.S. military, particularly the U.S. Special Operations Forces, to act directly against terrorist organizations. It also expands funding to build the partnership capacity of foreign military forces to participate in counterterrorism. Other aspects of the Act will strengthen protection for our troops, including adjusting to vulnerabilities found after the Fort Hood follow-up investigation; strengthen TRICARE and other support for military families; improve readiness in all four branches of the military and; advance our nuclear nonproliferation goals and missile defense structure. “At a time when we face two wars abroad and a looming fiscal crisis here at home, it is paramount that we be efficient and effective in the defense of our nation,” said Cummings. “This legislation will allow us to fight the battles we now face, prepare our troops and our nation to take on future threats, and pave the way for those troops to have the life they deserve, both during their service and when they have left the military.” Included in the Act is an extension for the Military Leadership Diversity Commission. In 2009, Congressman Cummings worked with Congressman Kendrick Meek of Florida to create the Commission. It is tasked with delivering a comprehensive evaluation and assessment of policies that provide opportunities for the promotion and advancement of minority members of the Armed Forces, including minority members who are senior officers. After it was chartered, the Commission was also asked to study diversity in the National Guard. Thanks to legislation championed by Congressman Cummings and introduced by Congressman Hank Johnson of Georgia, the Commission will receive another six months to provide as strong a report as possible. “Diversity is critical in the military,” said Cummings. “We are a nation that prides ourselves on being a melting pot, in which no group is superior to another. We must ensure that those who defend our nation and represent it abroad are members of a system producing that same equality. The Military Leadership Diversity Commission’s report will show us where we are doing a good job and where we must improve. I look forward to the delivery of that report.” -30-
05.28.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Applauds Passage Of Job Creation Bill Congressman pleased that legislation also closes tax loopholes. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today voted to pass H.R. 4213, the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act. The bill passed the House and will now move to the Senate for final passage. H.R. 4213 will support millions of small businesses by restoring their credit; extending tax incentives for American research and development into technology including clean energy; rebuilding American infrastructure; extending unemployment benefits until November; providing sales tax, property tax and tuition relief for middle class American families; and providing funds for summer youth employment. “For me and my Democratic colleagues, putting Americans back to work is our first priority,” said Cummings. “Everything we do here in Washington must be tempered by the knowledge that millions of Americans are still sitting in their homes with their families suffering, their skills eroding, and their self-esteem dwindling. They badly want to return to work, to gain both a paycheck and the respect that comes with steady employment. This bill provides small businesses with the opportunity to create those jobs and I am proud to have voted for it today.” H.R. 4213 helps control spending by closing tax loopholes and enforcing corporate accountability. This includes preventing corporations from shipping jobs overseas and sticking American taxpayers with the bill; making Wall Street hedge fund billionaires pay a fair income tax; and making the oil industry pay to ensure there are sufficient funds to clean up the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Because of these provisions, the legislation remains completely compliant with the Pay-As-You-Go policies passed last year, which demands Congress keep a tight rein on Federal spending. -30-
05.27.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Demands Answers In Tylenol Hearing Congressman joins Committee in investigation into drug recall. (Washington, DC) – Calling the safety precautions taken by pharmaceutical giant McNeil Consumer Healthcare, “a culture of mediocrity,” Congressman Elijah Cummings (MD-7) today questioned the head of McNeil’s parent company, Johnson and Johnson, as well as investigators and other members of the Food and Drug Administration. During a hearing of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Cummings first interviewed Dr. Joshua M. Sharfstein, Principal Deputy Commissioner of the FDA, before moving to Ms. Colleen Goggins, Worldwide Chairman of Johnson and Johnson Consumer Group. The hearing was called to investigate the April 30 recall of over 40 varieties of over-the-counter (OTC) infant’s and children’s liquid medicines by Johnson and Johnson. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) inspection uncovered problems surrounding the quality, purity and potency of these products. It is estimated that 70 percent of the market for OTC pediatric liquid medicines were involved in this recall. It was the third recall made by McNeil in the last eight months due to quality problems. “These recalls are indicative of a broader and more systematic problem that has led to the largest recall of children’s medicine in the history of the FDA,” said Cummings, in his prepared statement. “They have a powerful control of 70 percent of the market for OTC liquid medicines. With great power comes great responsibility. I do not believe Johnson & Johnson has taken their responsibility seriously. These drugs are not safe. These are medicines that are supposed to make our children feel better. They are medicines that are supposed to relieve them from pain, not cause additional strife.” -30-
05.21.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Welcomes Decline In Number Of Unemployed Marylanders Improvement in American economy trickles down to the Old Line State. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) released a statement following the decline in Maryland unemployment announced today by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). BLS announced that Maryland unemployment had fallen to 7.5 percent in April, down from 7.7 percent in March. “After a landmark month for our nation in April, in which we saw the most jobs gained in four years, this report about Maryland’s economy is great news,” said Cummings. “Clearly, the policies pursued by the Democratic Congress and President Obama are creating a recovery. However, we must remember that thousands of our Marylanders are still out of work, and the wasted potential of just one person is one too many. “I will keep fighting for job-creating legislation, particularly the Local Jobs for America Act. Next week, I expect us to pass the American Jobs, Closing Tax Loopholes and Preventing Outsourcing Act, which will create critical American jobs. Our plan is working and we must allow it to bring America all the way back.” -30-
05.19.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Participates In Hearing Regarding Gulf Spill Congressman questions BP, other executives. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today questioned the President of BP America, as well as other industry leaders, governmental stakeholders and scientists, during a hearing of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. The hearing was designed to find more details regarding the continuing massive oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. “As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, I am particularly concerned about those aspects of this event that involve the Coast Guard – and I know that currently, there are too many regulatory gaps between the agencies tasked with overseeing different aspects of offshore operations,” said Cummings. “The Coast Guard has essentially no role in approving the oil spill response plans developed by entities drilling in the Gulf or anywhere in the offshore regions. This situation must be corrected. “A critical question to be examined during this hearing and all subsequent discussions of this event is whether it is possible for us to hold drilling entities to the standard of preparing for the worst-case scenario, and whether is it even possible for government and industry together to be truly prepared for a worst-case scenario or whether by allowing expanded drilling at ever increasing depths, we are creating facilities that could unleash consequences that we simply are not and cannot be prepared to meet.” The panels interviewed by the committee included Lamar McKay, President of BP America; Steven Newman, President and CEO of Transocean Ltd; Lisa Jackson, EPA Administrator; Dr. Jane Lubchenco, Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and NOAA Administrator; S. Elizabeth Birnbaum, Director of Minerals Management Service; RADM Brian Salerno, Coast Guard Assistant Commandant for Marine Safety, Security, and Stewardship; Dr. Sylvia Earle, Explorer-in-Residence with the National Geographic Society; Larry Schweiger, President and CEO of the National Wildlife Federation; Pete Gerica of Gerica Seafood in New Orleans; Dr. Carys L. Mitchelmore, Associate Professor of the University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science and; Dr. Nancy E. Kinner, Co-Director, Coastal Response Research Center at the University of New Hampshire. -30-
05.07.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Welcomes Economic Recovery, New Jobs More Americans are seeking work, more Americans are returning to work. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today released a statement following the largest job growth since 2006. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that 290,000 American workers had returned to work in April. Unemployment rose to 9.9 percent, as 800,000 more unemployed workers believed they could find jobs and either returned to or entered the labor pool. Employment was up in many sectors including manufacturing and construction, which were both hit particularly hard by the economic downturn. Factory employment has risen by 101,000 since December. The BLS announcement came just a day after Minority Leader John Boehner made belittling statements, regarding employment improvement. “Just as every job lost is a reason for concern, every job gained is a reason for optimism,” said Cummings. “While it is good news for the Obama Administration and for the policies they have pursued, it is most importantly a winning day for America. We must take a close look at the economic indicators. As jobs are being added, production is up, retail spending has improved, and American families are saving more. We are recovering, and since we are all in this together, I would invite Mr. Boehner to root for the home team, to root for America, and to let his constituents know that the numbers and statistics bear that recovery out. “I also ask Mr. Boehner and the rest of my colleagues to help pass the Local Jobs for America Act, to help address the causes of chronic unemployment. Too many people are still without jobs so, along with the Local Jobs for America Act, I will keep fighting for small businesses, fighting to keep people in their homes and fighting to create good jobs. Our plan is working and we must keep fighting to bring America all the way back.” -30-
05.06.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Helps Pass Home Improvement Rebates Congressman votes to create more energy efficient homes, while spurring construction industry. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today voted in favor of H.R. 5019, the Home Star Energy Retrofit Act of 2010. The Home Star Act provides immediate incentives for consumers who renovate their homes to become more energy-efficient, rapidly creating American jobs and saving money for American families. The bill passed the House by a vote of 246-161. “I am happy to take this step toward becoming a nation that wastes less energy,” said Cummings. “Energy efficiency is one step down a road that ends with a more secure America with the green economy we need to compete against China and India. This package of rebates will help our economy grow by creating more than 150,000 American jobs in construction, manufacturing and retail. These are industries that were crushed by the Bush economic crisis. Also, by using less energy, we can cut our use of oil from countries that are unfriendly to us by as many as 7 million barrels a year.” Home Star provides two types of rebates: ü Silver Star – providing up-front rebates for specific energy-saving investments, including insulation, duct sealing, windows and doors, air sealing and water heaters at the time of sale. Homeowners receive up to $1,500 per improvement, with a rebate of up to $3,000 or 50 percent of the total project cost. ü Gold Star – rewarding homeowners who conduct a comprehensive energy audit and implement measures to reduce energy use, backed by a quality assurance program. Consumers receive $3,000 for a demonstrated savings of 20 percent, plus an additional $1,000 for each additional 5 percent energy savings up to $8,000 – capped at 50 percent of the project cost. The bipartisan legislation enjoys broad support from business, labor, environmental and consumer groups – including President Obama, the National Association of Manufacturers, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Association of Home Builders, Owens Corning, Home Depot, Laborers’ International Union of North America, Natural Resources Defense Council, and the Home Star Coalition with over 1000 business and organization members nationwide. -30-
05.04.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Thanks Teachers For Their Hard Work And Service Congressman motivated by educators throughout his life. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today celebrated National Teacher Day, as part of National Teacher Appreciation Week. “Other than my parents, my teachers have had the greatest impact on my life,” said Cummings. “From my time as a student at Baltimore City College High School, to studying at Howard University and attending law school at University of Maryland, teachers and professors taught me academic lessons, but they also provided life lessons and mentorship. My fondest memory of an educator is of my 6th grade teacher, Mr. Hollis Posey. He was the person who convinced me that I could achieve anything if I worked hard and simply believed.” Tuesday, May 4th is National Teacher Day and Teacher Appreciation Week is May 2 – May 8. National Teacher Day, sponsored by the National Education Association, is a time for honoring teachers and recognizing the lasting contributions they make to our lives. The theme for National Teacher Day is “Great Teachers Make Great Public Schools.” The Democratic-led 111th Congress recognizes the critical role that K-12 education plays in creating a strong new foundation for the American economy. The Congress has enacted two key bills with critical investments in K-12 education: the Recovery Act and the FY 2010 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill. In addition, in December, the House passed the Jobs for Main Street Act, which includes a critical $23 billion Education Jobs Fund that would prevent the layoffs of tens of thousands of teachers in the coming school year if the Senate passes it and it is signed into law. Cummings voted for each of these three bills.
04.30.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Congratulates Sarah Bloom Raskin Maryland Commissioner of Financial Regulation nominated to the Federal Reserve Board. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today released a statement of congratulations for Sarah Bloom Raskin, who was nominated to the Federal Reserve Board by President Obama. “Sarah Raskin has fought hard to protect Marylanders,” said Cummings. “She pursued and eliminated mortgage scam artists. She has worked hard to educate consumers on financial literacy, including testifying before the United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Development. She also led the charge to end predatory lending practices in Maryland. America must have a regulator on the Fed Board who has experience fighting for consumers. I know that Ms. Raskin has been that fighter, and will continue her fight at the Federal level. I hope that the Senate will act as quickly as possible to confirm her.” -30-
04.27.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} Cummings Chairs Hearing On Coast Guard DiversityCongressman calls for follow-up hearing in one year to receive new GAO report. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, convened a hearing regarding civil rights programs and diversity initiatives in the United States Coast Guard. The hearing examined a report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) concerning changes made by the Coast Guard’s Civil Rights Directorate. The Subcommittee also examined diversity at the Coast Guard Academy. Consultants at Booz Allen Hamilton made 53 recommendations in an assessment of the Coast Guard Civil Rights Services released in early 2009. The Civil Rights Directorate reports it has implemented 52 of Booz Allen Hamilton’s 53 recommendations. However, the GAO report indicated that implementation of these recommendations may not be fully completed. The report argues that achieving long-term changes in the civil rights directorate requires development of a clear vision of outcomes to be achieved by reform, and of measurable steps that can be used to assess progress toward the achievement of these outcomes. “I have had justifiable concerns in the past regarding the effectiveness of the Coast Guard’s civil rights services given multiple third-party and internal assessments pointing to long-standing challenges to the effective delivery of such services in the Coast Guard,” said Cummings. “I applaud the speed with which the Civil Rights Directorate has moved to seize the initiative and respond to the findings of the Booz Allen Hamilton report. However, with today’s GAO report in mind, I am concerned that the Coast Guard must be clear that the changes it makes in its civil rights programs will improve the provision of civil rights services.” By contrast, diversity at the Coast Guard Academy is likely to be significantly increased in the incoming class of 2014. According to current data, approximately 16 percent of the appointments offered to the Class of 2013 went to minority students and the incoming class was similarly comprised of approximately 15 percent minority students. As of April 19th 2010, 23 percent of those offered admission to the Academy’s Class of 2014 were minorities, and approximately 25 percent of those who had accepted admission offers were minorities. “I am very pleased with what the Academy’s expanded recruitment initiatives have thus far achieved,” said Cummings. “However, maintaining increased levels of minority applications and enrollments will likely continue to require a concerted outreach effort and it is therefore imperative that expanded recruitment initiatives be institutionalized within the Coast Guard Academy.” Cummings asked the Subcommittee Ranking Member, Congressman Frank LoBiondo, and the Chairman of the full Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Congressman James Oberstar, as well as the Ranking Member of the full Committee, Congressman John Mica to join him in asking the GAO to conduct a new analysis of the Coast Guard’s civil rights programs. This proposed study will examine the effectiveness of the changes made by the Civil Rights Directorate. Chairman Cummings intends to re-convene the Subcommittee in about a year to receive the results of the new report. -30-
04.25.2010	For Immediate Release April 25, 2010Contact: Paul Kincaid (Cummings), 202-225-4289 Molly Simmons (Defazio), (202) 225-6416 60 Members Sign Cummings/DeFazio Request For Goldman Sachs InvestigationRepresentatives call for full investigation of potentially fraudulent CDO products marketed by Goldman. (Washington, DC) – 58 Representatives today joined Congressman Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland and Congressman Peter DeFazio of Oregon in calling for a full investigation of Goldman Sachs by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Cummings and DeFazio also sent a letter to Special Inspector General for TARP, Neil Barofsky, and Professor Elizabeth Warren of the Congressional Oversight Panel (COP), requesting that SIGTARP and COP begin similar investigations. Goldman Sachs has been sued by the SEC for possible securities fraud. The SEC alleges false and materially misleading statements by the firm in the creating and marketing of ABACUS 2007-AC1, a collateralized debt obligation (CDO) backed by home mortgages. There were 25 total ABACUS CDOs created. The letter asks the SEC to investigate the remaining 24 ABACUS CDOs for similar fraud. It asks that the SEC identify the extent to which AIG paid out on credit default swaps purchased by Goldman Sachs and to ensure the taxpayers receive refunds on any AIG money received by Goldman Sachs on fraudulent premises.“We’ve got to look into every aspect of these deals and figure out exactly what went wrong,” said Cummings, a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. “If people were participating in any type of fraudulent activity we need to expose it and they need to be brought to justice. We also need to get our money back.”DeFazio and Cummings announced their request for an expanded SEC investigation last week.“From the beginning, I’ve thought that the deal Goldman Sachs got via then President of the NY Federal Reserve Tim Geithner on their bad bets through AIG kind of stunk,” DeFazio says. “They got $13 billion from AIG last year. I’m looking for any legal way to recoup that money for the people of the United States.”The Democratic Members who have agreed to sign the letter alongside Cummings and DeFazio are: Dennis Cardoza, Stephanie Herseth Sandlin, John Conyers, John Dingell, George Miller, Ike Skelton, Jackie Speier, Brad Miller, John Garamendi, Keith Ellison, Marcy Kaptur, Christopher Carney, Gene Taylor, Stephen Lynch, Bill Pascrell, Peter Welch, Chellie Pingree, Phil Hare, Betty Sutton, Betsy Markey, Pete Stark, John Tierney, David Loebsack, Carol Shea-Porter, Mazie Hirono, Bob Filner, Jesse Jackson, Jr., Maurice Hinchey, Michael Capuano, Michael Michaud, Brian Baird, Dennis Kucinich, Joe Baca, Timothy Walz, Bennie Thompson, Mike Thompson, Earl Blumenauer, Lynn Woolsey, Dale Kildee, Bart Stupak, Mark Schauer, Raul Grijalva, Betty McCollum, Linda Sanchez, Martin Heinrich, Lois Capps, Anna Eshoo, Joe Donnelly, Barbara Lee, Alan Grayson, Steven Rothman, Dina Titus, Tim Ryan, Tom Perriello, Jan Schakowsky, Lloyd Doggett, Bruce Braley, and Mary Jo Kilroy.-30-
04.20.2010	United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th Districthttps://www.house.gov/cummings2235 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515(202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:April 20, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289Cummings Mourns The Loss Of Dorothy I. Height(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today mourned the loss of Dorothy I. Height, whose work as President of the National Council of Negro Women and earlier efforts as a civil rights pioneer in the 1950’s and 60’s helped to desegregate schools, assure equal access to public facilities and encourage voting rights.“Dorothy Height was a woman of stunning dedication, discipline and vision,” Rep. Cummings recalled. “Although, at times, she may have been overshadowed in the press and the history books by the men of the Civil Rights movement, she will never be forgotten in the hearts and minds of the millions whom she touched.“When Dorothy Height stood there with Martin Luther King, Jr., on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial as he delivered his famous “I have a dream” speech, she stood tall in her own right. Her leadership within the National Council of Negro Women encouraged positive and lasting change in our nation. Although she was not always adequately acknowledged, her effect on history is unmistakable. “I was proud to see Dorothy Height awarded the Congressional Gold Medal in 2004,” Rep. Cummings concluded. “Millions of women - and men - have lost a role model, and America has lost one of our true treasures. My prayers are with Ms. Height’s family and friends during their time of loss.”Dorothy Height passed away early Tuesday morning at the age of 98.-30-
04.19.2010	For Immediate Release April 19, 2010Contact: Paul Kincaid (Cummings), 202-225-4289 Molly Simmons (Defazio), (202) 225-6416 Cummings, DeFazio Invite Colleagues To Join Goldman Sachs Investigation RequestCongressmen call for full investigation of potentially fraudulent CDO products marketed by Goldman. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) and Congressman Peter DeFazio (OR-4) today asked their colleagues from both sides of the aisle to join them in calling for a full investigation of Goldman Sachs by the Securities and Exchange Commission. “The taxpayers are frustrated by the massive bailout of Wall Street, while unemployment lags and banks resist lending,” Cummings and DeFazio note in a letter urging their colleagues to join them in their request to Mary Shapiro, Chairwoman of the SEC. “Taxpayers have rightly viewed the bailout of AIG with suspicion. Join us in calling for an expanded SEC investigation to retrieve any fraudulently obtained taxpayer dollars by Goldman Sachs via AIG.”Goldman Sachs has been sued by the SEC for possible securities fraud. The SEC alleges false and materially misleading statements by the firm in the creation and marketing of ABACUS 2007-AC1, a collateralized debt obligation (CDO) backed by home mortgages. There were 25 total ABACUS CDOs created by Goldman Sachs.According to a suit brought against Goldman Sachs by the SEC, the CDO ABACUS 2007-AC1 was created when John Paulson, a private hedge fund investor, approached Goldman about making short (negative) bets against the housing market. Goldman agreed, and hired ACA Management to create the package of bonds. ACA believed Paulson was positive on the housing bonds, and found no conflict in accepting his input into the selection of housing bonds for the ABACUS CDO. The ABACUS CDO was then marketed to investors as a package of bonds selected by independent professionals at ACA, lacking any mention of Paulson’s involvement. Seven of these CDOs were insured by AIG and their failure was a significant factor in the AIG collapse that taxpayers are on the hook for. If Goldman Sachs was fraudulent in any of those seven AIG deals, the SEC has the authority to recover those illicit gains.Because the potentially fraudulent actions by Goldman Sachs affect not only Wall Street, but every taxpayer whose money went to help recapitalize AIG through the nearly $180 billion bailout provided by the federal government to that firm, DeFazio and Cummings want to give every Representative an opportunity to join their request. “We’ve got to look into every aspect of these deals and figure out exactly what went wrong,” said Cummings, a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, in an interview with the New York Times on Sunday. “If people were participating in any type of fraudulent activity we need to expose it and they need to be brought to justice and we need to get our money back.”“This type of potentially fraudulent activity must be investigated. In the wake of the absurd $180 billion AIG bailout, we have an opportunity to, and an obligation to try to recoup tax-payer money from Goldman Sachs, who profited immensely as the economy nosedived.” DeFazio noted. Several Representatives have already signed onto the letter as of Monday afternoon.-30-
04.17.2010	Cummings Announces Congressional Art Competition Winner Baltimore student will be recognized for one year in U.S. Capitol. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today announced that a panel of judges from Baltimore’s fine arts community selected Ms. Anna Hodges of the Baltimore School for the Arts, as the winner of the 2010 Congressional Arts Competition for the 7th Congressional District of Maryland. Ms. Hodges’ painting, entitled “My Basement Studio”, will be displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, D.C., along with other young artists who won the Congressional Arts Competitions in their respective Congressional Districts. The runner-up for the honor was Ms. Katherine Chen who is a senior at Centennial High School, for her painting Figure in Blue. “I am delighted to showcase the artistic talent of the young people in the 7th Congressional District,” Congressman Cummings noted. “This competition is a wonderful opportunity for students to develop and express their creativity through the arts.” Several young artists also received Curator’s Choice awards: American Visionary Art Museum: Mr. Collin Burns, a junior at Catonsville High School The Contemporary Museum: Ms. Hayan Kim, a senior at Catonsville High School The Eubie Blake National Jazz Institute and Cultural Center: Ms. Kelly McGinty, a junior at Catonsville High School The Maryland Institute College of Art: Ms. Rashea Wallace, a sophomore at Doris Johnson High School The National Great Blacks in Wax Museum: Mr. Cordell Scott, a senior at Doris Johnson High School The Walters Art Museum: Ms. Juliet Lee, a senior at Centennial High School More than 60 high school students from more than a dozen schools in the 7th Congressional District entered the competition.
04.15.2010	United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th Districthttps://www.house.gov/cummings2235 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515(202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:April 15, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289Cummings Pleased To Extend Unemployment InsuranceCongressman votes to extend unemployment insurance, COBRA, other programs.(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today voted “yea” on H.R. 4851, the Continuing Extension Act of 2010. The bill, amended by the Senate and passed today, extends unemployment and COBRA benefits for Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. Benefits will be extended until the beginning of May, retroactively.The bill passed the House by a final vote of 289-112.“I am pleased that the Senate finally approved support for the middle class workers of America who have been victims of the recession,” said Cummings. “We are recovering, thanks to the Democratic recovery efforts, and thanks to the perseverance of businesses and workers throughout America. However, millions of our countrymen and women are still out of work, and the wasted potential of just one person is one too many.”The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that 162,000 American workers returned to work last month, though unemployment remained at 9.7 percent. Despite this good news, more than 15 million Americans remained unemployed.“Now that we have protected Americans who want to work for one more month, my colleagues must help pass the Local Jobs for America Act, to help address the causes of chronic unemployment. Along with the Local Jobs for America Act, I will keep fighting for small businesses, fighting to keep people in their homes and fighting to create good jobs. Our plan is working and we must keep fighting to bring America all the way back.”-30-
04.14.2010	United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th Districthttps://www.house.gov/cummings2235 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515(202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:April 14, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289Cummings Asks Fed Chair To Encourage Small Business LendingCongressman discusses small business lending with Chairman Bernanke. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today questioned Ben Bernanke, Chairman of the Federal Reserve, at a hearing conducted by the Joint Economic Committee. Cummings specifically questioned Bernanke regarding the opportunity for small businesses, particularly minority-owned and disadvantaged businesses, to acquire lines of credit from private lenders.Cummings was particularly interested in this process after meeting with Baltimore-area small business owners who want to bid on contracts and hire new employees, but they are unable to find credit.“The minority business leaders with whom I met are struggling to keep their doors open, for one simple reason: They cannot access lines of credit,” said Cummings. “These are successful, capable firms. They are shut out of the market because they cannot get a simple loan. I am incapable of exaggerating how upset I was to learn that these businesses may have to shut down because they can not maintain financing.”In his opening statement, Bernanke said the Fed has asked banks to ensure the economy is capitalized, “We have issued policy statements to bankers and examiners emphasizing the importance of lending to creditworthy customers, working with troubled borrowers to restructure loans, managing commercial real estate exposures appropriately, and taking a careful but balanced approach to small business lending.”Bernanke also said the Fed assisted the National Federation of Independent Business in developing a survey to assess barriers to credit access by small businesses. The Fed is also using its Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices to monitor changes in bank lending to small businesses.Bernanke agreed with Cummings, in the moral and financial importance of encouraging American businesses, “From an empathy and from an economic perspective, it is important to get small businesses growing. We’re looking for feedback and ideas from banks and others who will give us more explicit suggestions to do that.”-30-
04.08.2010	United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th Districthttps://www.house.gov/cummings2235 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515(202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:April 8, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289Cummings Awards $850,000 to Baltimore City Public SchoolsTwo programs, intended to move students into the workforce more efficiently, receive Federal funds(Baltimore, Md.) — Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) joined Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, Baltimore City Public Schools CEO Andres Alonso and education leaders including Dr. Nancy Grasmick, Maryland State Superintendent of Schools, Thursday morning to announce a major investment in the Baltimore City Public Schools’ Transformation Schools Initiative and Career and Technology Pathways Program. “I often say that our children are our message to a future we will never see,” said Congressman Cummings. “We may not see what our children grow to become, and the future they will build, but they can send us a message as well. When we provide them with a robust education, our children can show us that they are ready for the challenges that life will send their way.”Cummings awarded $500,000 to Baltimore City Public Schools for their Secondary School Transformation Strategy. This program will create 24 new Transformation Schools over a four year period – increasing graduation rates, college enrollment, reducing dropout rates and improving employment options for students.“In these challenging economic times, the support of our local, state and federal legislators is invaluable in securing the resources we need to provide our great kids with the great schools they deserve,” said Dr. Andres Alonso. “Congressman Cummings and his colleagues have demonstrated their determination to do everything in their power to help our children succeed.”Baltimore City Public Schools also received $350,000 for their Career and Technology Pathways Work Expansion. The program will help prepare students for a successful future through experiences that link education to future careers by integrating classroom instruction with structured worksite experiences.“We are grateful for Congressman Cummings’ commitment to our young people and the Baltimore City School System,” said Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. “This support for the Transformation Schools Initiative and Career and Technology Pathways Programs will help make our schools better and stronger.”-30-
04.02.2010	United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th Districthttps://www.house.gov/cummings2235 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515(202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:April 2, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289Cummings Welcomes Most Jobs Gained In Three YearsThough unemployment remains at 9.7 percent, 162,000 Americans return to work.(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today released a statement following the largest amount of job growth in three years. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that 162,000 American workers had returned to work, though unemployment remained at 9.7 percent. Though some were attributing the rise to the census, only 48,000 of these workers were temporary.“This is a landmark day for our nation, for the Obama Administration and for the policies they have pursued,” said Cummings. “We are recovering from the recession, thanks to those policies, and thanks to the perseverance of businesses and workers throughout America. However, millions of our countrymen and women are still out of work, and the wasted potential of just one person is one too many.“When we return to Washington, my colleagues must help pass the Local Jobs for America Act, to help address the causes of chronic unemployment. Along with the Local Jobs for America Act, I will keep fighting for small businesses, fighting to keep people in their homes and fighting to create good jobs. Our plan is working and we must keep fighting to bring America all the way back.”-30-
03.30.2010	United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 26, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Touts Immediate Effects Of Healthcare Reform Congressman says that Maryland children, youth, elderly and small businesses will see immediate benefits.(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today discussed important benefits that Marylanders can expect, immediately after the nation’s broken health insurance system is reformed.Congress is planning to pass a plan that puts Americans back in control of their health care choices, holds insurance companies accountable, and makes coverage more affordable. The American people will see immediate benefits as soon as the legislation goes into effect.“This bill gives Marylanders more choices and brings down health care costs,” said Cummings. “When it is enacted, small businesses, seniors, young people, and Americans who have been discriminated against by insurance companies will begin to see immediate relief. We have waited for meaningful health care reform for more than six decades. When our hopes are realized, we will see immediate benefits. By enacting these provisions right away, and others over time, we will be able to lower costs for everyone and give every American more control over their health care choices.”Those who are uninsured because of a pre-existing condition will be able to buy affordable coverage through a temporary high-risk pool and insurers will be banned from denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions. Insurance companies will be prohibited from dropping coverage when customers get sick and the cost of prescription drugs under Medicare will go down.The bill also requires new private plans to cover preventive services and immunizations with no co-payments and to ensure that consumers have access to an effective internal and external appeals process to appeal new insurance plan decisions. It also extends coverage to young people, allowing them to remain on their parents’ insurance policy until their 26th birthday.Small businesses that provide coverage to their employees will be eligible for a tax credit of up to 35% of premiums. New training programs will be funded to train a greater number of primary care doctors, nurses, and public health professionals. Finally, funding is included to increase support for community health centers – allowing them to almost double the amount of patients they treat over the next five years. -30-.
03.26.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 26, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Awaits Treasury Foreclosure Prevention Efforts Congressman cautiously optimistic about efforts to reduce home losses. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) was pleased with published reports of new Treasury plans to reduce foreclosures and encourage mortgage modification efforts by both public and private lenders. Cummings has been a constant advocate of foreclosure mitigation and prevention efforts, and has frequently spoken with Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, encouraging him to pursue every possible avenue to protect American homeowners. “During numerous personal meetings and discussions with Secretary Geithner, I have encouraged him to change the way our government deals with foreclosures,” said Cummings. “The Secretary promised me he would make foreclosures a personal focus and I am pleased that he has followed through.” The Treasury announcements followed a hearing Thursday, held by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, with regard to the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) currently operated by the Treasury Department. Special Inspector General for TARP, Neil Barofsky, indicated to Cummings and the Committee that HAMP has been a great disappointment. “Obviously, I remain excited by the prospect of homeowners remaining in their homes,” said Cummings. “However, with the difficulties HAMP as shown thus far, I urge Secretary Geithner to ensure that adequate resources are available for full oversight of the new programs. We must work as efficiently and as effectively as possible to keep Americans in the homes for which they have worked so hard. “Thousands who are suffering in Maryland, and millions throughout America may have new hope. A light has appeared on a horizon that was previously only filled with storm clouds. That ray of sun must not be dimmed by continued ineffectiveness.” The new Treasury programs will address different aspects of foreclosure prevention. The largest of the three programs will allow many of the 11 million homeowners whose mortgages are “underwater,” to refinance those mortgages through the Federal Housing Administration. Loans that are “underwater” have more debt remaining than the home is worth. FHA would guarantee “underwater” mortgages that were refinanced by the lender, with partial loan forgiveness. This would allow homeowners to afford the payments needed to keep their homes. The second leg would provide financial incentives for private lenders to write down the principal of underwater loans, allowing homeowners to stay in their homes, while paying the actual worth of the homes. Finally, the third piece of the plan will require lenders to offer a three to six month reduction in payments for any homeowner who is unemployed and looking for work. “These actions show a clear intention by Treasury,” said Cummings. “They show that Wall Street will not be the only concern as our economy recovers. Efforts must be improved to help Main Street. However, we cannot fail. Too many homeowners are counting on us, and improving their plight is too crucial for our economic recovery. Along with all Americans, I am relying on Secretary Geithner to prove to us that this can be a success.” -30- .
03.25.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 25, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Demands Effective Foreclosure Prevention Congressman takes part in hearing, regarding foreclosure mitigation and prevention. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) continued today in a quest to protect Americans facing foreclosure. Cummings discussed foreclosures with several witnesses, during a meeting of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. The hearing, entitled ““Foreclosure Prevention: Is the Home Affordable Modification Program Preserving Homeownership?” was held in order to investigate the effectiveness of the HAMP program, which was designed to rescue homeowners who face foreclosure. “This hearing is a critical component in our role of ensuring that government operations function with the highest level of effectiveness and efficiency,” said Cummings. “We must set aside our preconceived notions about these policies, good or bad, and conduct an honest evaluation of whether this program is accomplishing as much is absolutely required to get our constituents through this storm.” The committee questioned Neil Barofsky, Special Inspector General for the Troubled Assets Relief Program; Gene Dodaro, GAO Acting Comptroller General; John Taylor, President and CEO, National Community Reinvestment Coalition and; Herbert. Allison, Jr., Assistant Treasury Secretary for Financial Stability. Barofsky admitted that the program has been disappointing. Fewer than 200,000 households have received permanent modifications. Barofsky also said that the goal set for the department was essentially pointless, and that the program would not be a success until a more appropriate, reachable goal was created. He also said that many recommendations from the SIGTARP have been, by and large, ignored. Cummings also heard testimony regarding both public and private developments that he hopes will help keep Americans in their homes. A new Treasury directive was announced recently, that will force banks to stop foreclosure while a homeowner is in modification negotiations. Also, a new policy by Bank of America will allow homeowners who are “underwater” (whose outstanding mortgage value exceeds the value of their home) to have parts of the principal of those mortgages forgiven. “I am very pleased with the actions taken by both Treasury and by the private lender,” said Cummings. “Though I have still have questions about how effective they will be, I am very hopeful that this is a sea change in how the financial system deals with foreclosures. I heartily encourage both the Treasury and all private lenders to continue to pursue paths similar to that which we have recently seen. With that said, we must realize that every yard we advance on this problem is simply reclaiming lost ground. Too many Americans are losing their homes for us to claim victory. We must continue the fight until the incredible damage done to the housing market has been erased.” -30- .
03.25.2010	Healthcare Reform Statement for the Record.docStatement for the Congressional Recordon H.R. 3590, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Congressman Elijah E. CummingsThursday, March 25This week, I had the honor and privilege of joining my Democratic colleagues at the White House, to witness President Barack Obama sign into law, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3590)—the most significant piece of health care legislation since the enactment of Medicare in 1965. This legislation fulfills one of the most basic tenets of the Declaration of Independence—the provision of our natural unalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. H.R. 3590 secures these rights for every American by ensuring them access to quality, affordable healthcare.While waiting for President Obama to sign the legislation, I thought about the thousands of families and friends who have lost loved ones because they lacked access to basic health care coverage. I also thought about the generations of activists and policy makers who fought to make this monumental achievement a reality.I have always been proud to be a Member of Congress but voting in favor H.R. 3590 and being present at the signing ceremony was by far my proudest moment. By signing this legislation into law, President Obama ensured that the United States remains a leader among industrialized nations, and that the American people can now take comfort in knowing that an illness will no longer wipeout their life savings and lead to bankruptcy.Although the idea of providing people with access to quality, affordable health care has been around since the early 1900s, it was the Democratic-led 111th Congress that made the historic statement that healthcare is in fact a right, not a privilege.We affirmed to millions of Americans that we are aware of their struggles and that we are willing to fight for them and do what is morally and fundamentally right.During the November 2008 election, Americans overwhelmingly voted for change. They demanded a government willing to stand up to big business, and that is transparent in its actions. But above all else, people demanded a government that is willing to be responsive to their needs—and we affirmed their trust in us by passing this legislation.Is the legislation perfect? No!I still favor a single payer system and I was a strong supporter of the public option.That being said, H.R. 3590 is 100 percent better than what was previously available in this nation. Prior to the enactment of this legislation:Over 47 million Americans were uninsured. In 2008, 23 million uninsured were employed adults and 7.3 million were children;Nearly 41 thousand people died each year because they lacked access to quality, affordable healthcare insurance; andEvery minute, 8 people were denied coverage, charged a higher rate, or otherwise discriminated against because of a pre-existing condition.If Congress had not successfully passed this legislation:Employers would be unable to afford rising health care costs, and an additional 3.5 million people would be unemployed and without benefits in the next 4 years.Small businesses would lose $52.1 billion in profits to high health care costs over the next ten years; andBy 2019, national health care expenditures would reach $4.5 trillion—more than double 2007 spending.The American people have waited for over 100 years for this legislation and this is what they will get immediately:We provide tax credits to small businesses to make employee coverage more affordable;$250 will be provided to Medicare beneficiaries who hit the “donut hole” in 2010;Within 90 days, Americans who are uninsured because of a pre‐existing condition will be able to obtain insurance through a temporary high‐risk pool;Within 6 months, insurance companies will be prohibited from denying coverage to children with pre‐existing conditions;Health plans will be required to allow young people up to their 26th birthday to remain on their parents’ insurance policy;Health plans will be prohibited from dropping people from coverage when they get sick;Health plans will be prohibited from placing lifetime caps on coverage; andBeginning January 2011, preventive services under Medicare will be free.To put it simply, Congress met its moral obligation in passing healthcare reform. With our historic vote, we told future generations that no American will suffer and die because of a lack of insurance.We told insurance companies that, while they are a valuable part of our nation, they will be held accountable for delivering on their promises. We told our elderly that our commitment to them remains strong, and that the programs they have come to trust will continue to be deserving of that trust.The reform we passed will help millions of Americans. In addition to providing access to health care coverage, H.R. 3590 goes far in addressing health care disparities in our nation’s minority communities.Specifically, it includes language that I introduced with Representative Jesse Jackson, Jr., (D-Ill.) H.R. 2778, the Health Equity and Accountability Through Research Act. This legislation sought to elevate the National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NCMHD) to the level of Institute, giving it the authority to better address the appalling health disparities that are plaguing our nation’s minority communities. NCMHD was created to promote minority health and to lead, coordinate, and assess the efforts of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in reducing and to ultimately eliminate health disparities. Unfortunately, the previous structure of NCMHD created confusion regarding who has the responsibility for the coordinated minority health disparities research conducted or supported by NIH. Additionally, NCMHD lacked real input into and authority over all NIH-supported health disparities activities and funds. H.R. 3590 addressed these concerns by elevating the Center to the level of Institute, and clarifies the role of the Director as coordinator and manager of the NIH-wide minority health and health disparities portfolio. The bill also provides the new Institute with professional judgment over NIH-wide minority health and health disparities budgets as well as management over NIH-wide minority health and health disparities allocations.However, this is not the only improvement that minority and underserved communities will see.This comprehensive healthcare package also includes $11 billion for community health centers, which offer comprehensive primary care and mental health services to underserved populations. These health centers are a critical stopgap, allowing better care for chronic conditions, while preventing unnecessary trips to the emergency room. Last but certainly not least, H.R. 3590 honors the life of Deamonte Driver—a 12 year old boy from Maryland whose life was cut drastically short three years ago when an untreated tooth infection spread to his brain.Deamonte’s tragic death haunts me to this day. Eighty dollars worth of dental care might have saved his life, but he never got that care because he lacked access to a dentist.The health care bill that we passed will prevent others from dying in such a tragic fashion. Under the new law: Pediatric dentistry is covered as an essential health benefit; Funds will be provided to launch a dental campaign to new parents and traditionally underserved areas; Workforce Training Grants will be available to provide technical assistance to pediatric training programs in developing and implementing instruction regarding the oral health status, dental care needs, and risk-based clinical disease management of all pediatric populations with an emphasis on underserved children; andH.R. 3590 also includes a loan repayment program with preference given to qualified applicants who have a record of training individuals who are from a rural or disadvantaged background.However, minorities and underserved communities will not be the only populations that will benefit from our actions. Millions will be touched by healthcare reform in their daily lives in marked, measurable ways.31 million Americans will have the opportunity to protect themselves from the fear that a small injury could lead to bankruptcy; and147,000 families and 14,000 small businesses in my District will receive tax credits to help cover their employees with health insurance; and 56,000 young people in my District will be able to get insurance, at fair prices, through policies currently owned by their parents.To quote the great poet Virgil, “The greatest wealth is health.” By passing and signing this legislation, Congress and President Obama have provided the citizens of this nation with immeasurable wealth, comfort and security. We have firmly put the power back into the hands of the people, and this is an experience that I will cherish long after I leave Congress.
03.23.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 23, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Joins President In Welcoming Healthcare Reform Congressman will attend White House signing of comprehensive healthcare reform bill. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today will join President Barack Obama at the White House to witness the Presidential signing of H.R.3590, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The Act is the Senate version of comprehensive healthcare reform and was passed by the House of Representatives on Sunday night. Congressman Cummings was pleased to vote ‘yes’. H.R.3590 and H.R. 4872, the “Reconciliation Act of 2010,” which remains to be passed by the United States Senate, will form a national commitment to reform the worst elements of the current health insurance system and improve the health and economic well-being of all Americans. “This bill tells future generations that no American should suffer and die because of a lack of insurance, in the greatest country on earth,” said Cummings. “We told insurance companies that, while they are a valuable part of our nation, they will be held accountable for delivering on their promises. We told our elderly that our commitment to them remains strong, and that the programs they have come to trust will continue to be deserving of that trust. Finally, we told those who are locked out of our healthcare system that they can live without fear that one illness could destroy them financially. It is my great honor to witness the President signing this bill, after I cast the most important vote of my career.” Cummings will be available for interviews at the White House following the signing ceremony, as well as at various other times throughout the day. If you are interested in speaking with Congressman Cummings regarding healthcare reform, please email paul.kincaid@mail.house.gov or call 202-225-4289. -30-
03.22.2010	SBA Disaster Assistance Available to Private Non-Profit Organizations in MarylandThe U.S. Small Business Administration announces certain Private Non-Profit Organizations (PNPs) that do not provide critical services of a governmental nature may be eligible to apply for low-interest rate disaster loans. These loans are available following a Presidential Disaster Declaration for Public Assistance resulting from damages caused by a severe winter storm and snowstorm that occurred on Dec. 18 - 20, 2009.PNPs located in Baltimore, Caroline, Cecil, Harford, Howard, Kent, Montgomery and Queen Anne’s counties in Maryland are eligible to apply to SBA. Examples of eligible non-critical PNP organizations include, but are not limited to, food kitchens, homeless shelters, museums, libraries, community centers, schools and colleges.PNP organizations may borrow up to $2 million to repair or replace damaged or destroyed real estate, machinery and equipment, inventory and other business assets. The SBA also offers mitigation funds to disaster victims based on 20 percent of the verified physical damage. These funds are designed to help borrowers pay for protective measures to minimize damages of the same kind in the future.The SBA offers Economic Injury Disaster Loans to help meet working capital needs, such as ongoing operating expenses to PNP organizations of all sizes. Economic Injury Disaster Loan assistance is available regardless of whether the business suffered any physical property damage.Interest rates are as low as 3 percent with terms up to 30 years. Loan amounts and terms are set by the SBA and are based on each applicant’s financial condition.“PNP organizations are urged to contact their county emergency managers to obtain information about local briefings. At the meeting, PNP representatives will need to provide information about their organization,” said Frank Skaggs, director of SBA Field Operations Center East.This information will be used to submit a “Request for Public Assistance” which FEMA uses to determine if the PNP provides an essential governmental service and meets the definition of a “critical facility.” Based upon that conclusion, FEMA will either refer the PNP to SBA for disaster loan assistance or possibly provide a “Public Assistance” reimbursement grant for eligible costs.Disaster loan information and application forms may be obtained by calling the SBA’s Customer Service Center at 800-659-2955 (800-877-8339 for the hearing-impaired) Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. EST or by sending an e-mail to disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Applications can also be downloaded from www.sba.gov/services/disasterassistance. Completed applications should be mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155.PNPs may visit SBA’s secure Web site at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela/ to apply for disaster loans.The filing deadline to return applications for physical property damage is April 20, 2010. The deadline to return economic injury applications is November 19, 2010.# # #For more information about the SBA’s Disaster Loan Programs, visit our Web site at www.sba.gov/services/disasterassistance.
03.21.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 21, 2010 Paul Kincaid, Press Secretary, 202.225.4289 Cummings Proud To Vote For American Healthcare ReformCongressman casts yea vote on legislation that will cover 96 percent of Americans. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings cast his vote Sunday, in favor of H.R.3590, the Senate amendments to the “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act” and H.R. 4872, the “Reconciliation Act of 2010”. The bills, which both passed the House of Representatives 219-212 , will form the largest healthcare reform package ever signed into law. President Obama will sign the Senate bill after passage through the House, while the Reconciliation Act will have to first pass through the United States Senate, before it can be signed. “Today, I cast the most historic votes I will ever take in this House," said Cummings. "The forces of fear and divisiveness cast a terrible shadow on this debate. However, this is about taking care of all Americans. It is about the spirit that we saw after Hurricane Katrina and after 9/11, when people pulled together; as one nation, under God and indivisible. “With our historic vote, we told future generations that no American should suffer and die because of a lack of insurance, in the greatest country on earth. We told insurance companies that, while they are a valuable part of our nation, they will be held accountable for delivering on their promises. We told our elderly that our commitment to them remains strong, and that the programs they have come to trust will continue to be deserving of that trust. “Thanks to the reforms we passed today, 31 million Americans will have the opportunity to protect themselves from the fear that a small injury could lead to bankruptcy. 147,000 families and 14,000 small businesses in my District will receive tax credits, and on the day President Obama signs this bill into law, 56,000 young people in my District will be able to get insurance, at fair prices, through their parents policies. “This is an incredibly historic moment. I remain humbled and honored to be chosen by the people of Maryland to play even a small role in it.” -30-
03.21.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:March 21, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Welcomes Elevation Of Minority Health Center Congressman pleased that Cummings/Jackson language to improve disparities appears in final bill. (Washington, DC) – Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, cast his vote Sunday for H.R. 3590, the Senate amendments to the “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.” Included in that bill was a change in national healthcare policy, originally authored by Congressman Cummings, which will help address the mounting racial disparities in healthcare. Last year, Cummings and Jesse Jackson, Jr., (D-Ill.) introduced H.R. 2778, the Health Equity and Accountability Through Research Act of 2009, which would elevate the National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NCMHD) to the level of Institute, giving it the authority to better address the appalling health disparities that are plaguing our nation’s minority communities. The language in that bill was included in H.R. 3590. NCMHD was created to promote minority health and lead, coordinate, and assess the efforts of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to reduce and ultimately eliminate health disparities. However, the Center’s current structure creates ambiguity regarding who has the responsibility and authority for coordinated minority health disparities research conducted or supported by NIH. Additionally, NCMHD currently lacks real input into and authority over all NIH-supported health disparities activities and funds. “Whether African Americans, Hispanics, American Indians, or Asians and Pacific Islanders, minorities in our country are more severely affected by diseases than our white counterparts across the board,” Cummings said. “Elevating the NCMHD to the Institute level and providing its Director with clear authority over health disparity issues will empower NIH to better address the disparities that are killing our communities.” The Center will be elevated to the level of Institute, clarifying the role of the Director as coordinator and manager of the NIH-wide minority health and health disparities portfolio. The bill would also provide the new Institute with professional judgment over NIH-wide minority health and health disparities budgets as well as management over NIH-wide minority health and health disparities allocations. Along with this critical change, the bill will provide $11 billion to community health centers which offer comprehensive primary care and mental health services to underserved populations. These health centers are a critical stopgap, allowing better care for chronic conditions, while preventing unnecessary trips to the emergency rooms. According to recent statistics: African Americans have death rates more than 40 percent higher than whites for heart disease, seven times higher for HIV/AIDS, double for prostate cancer, and 30 percent higher for all cancers.Hispanics have death rates 41 percent higher than whites for diabetes, 168 percent higher for chronic liver disease and cirrhosis, 168 percent higher for HIV/AIDS, and 18 percent higher for strokes.American Indians and Alaskan Natives have death rates 750 percent higher than whites for tuberculosis, 190 percent higher for diabetes, and 550 percent higher from alcoholism. -30- .
03.18.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 18, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Joins Obama At White House Congressman will meet President for signing of HIRE Act. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today will join President Barack Obama at the White House to witness the Presidential signing of the HIRE Act. The HIRE Act passed the Senate on Wednesday, having passed through the House of Representatives on March 4th. Congressman Cummings was pleased to vote ‘yes’ on the Act. The HIRE Act is a bipartisan bill that will create jobs for Americans. It includes: Payroll tax relief for businesses that hire unemployed workers, to create some 300,000 jobs and an income tax credit of $1,000 for businesses that retain these employeesAn extension that strengthens the financial footing of the Highway Trust Fund and allows for tens of billions of dollars in infrastructure investment to prevent the loss of up to 1 million jobsProvisions -- modeled after the Build America Bonds program – to make it easier for states to borrow for infrastructure projects, such as school construction and energy projectsTax cuts to spur new investment by small businesses to help them expand and hire more workers Cummings will be available for interviews at the White House following the signing ceremony, as well as at various other times throughout the day. If you are interested in speaking with Congressman Cummings regarding the HIRE Act or future work by the House to increase American employment, please email paul.kincaid@mail.house.gov or call 202-225-4289. -30-
03.09.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 9, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Welcomes HIV Relief Funding For Baltimore City Grant will provide a safety net for treatment of underserved citizens living with HIV and AIDS. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today welcomed a grant awarded to Baltimore City Health Department, to aid in the continuing effort to slow the spread of HIV in Baltimore. Baltimore will receive more than $15 million from the Department of Health and Human Services. The HIV Emergency Relief Project grants are part of the Ryan White grant program, which was established in 1992. “Too many people in our community are living, and dying, with this terrible disease,” said Cummings. “HIV and AIDS in the Baltimore area is nothing less than an epidemic. I am pleased that Baltimore’s public health workers will now have more weapons in their battle against the spread of HIV. We must fight this disease with everything we have, in every neighborhood and on every street.” Medical services paid for by the Ryan White grants include outpatient health services, mental health services, case management, substance abuse services, oral health, health insurance premium subsidies and cost sharing and hospice care. Support services are also funded. The funding is crucial for providing a safety net for the most vulnerable uninsured and underinsured persons living with HIV/AIDS in Baltimore. Data from the Maryland AIDS Administration indicate that 17,457 persons are living with HIV/AIDS in the Baltimore area as of December 31, 2008. The Baltimore metropolitan area had the second highest AIDS reported case rate of any metropolitan area in the United States with 37.7 cases per 100,000 in 2006. African Americans comprise 75 percent of those cases. -30-
03.05.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 5, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Continues The Fight To Keep Americans In Their Homes Congressman sends letter to Treasury Secretary Geithner to encourage foreclosure solutions. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. The letter was a response to recent media reports that Treasury will soon revise the Home Affordability Modification Program (HAMP), to ensure that all homeowners in the HAMP program are able to take advantage of mortgage modification before foreclosure proceedings begin. Cummings’ letter to Geithner indicated the Congressman’s support for the revisions, and asked Geithner to consider what other steps could be taken to assist homeowners. “The problems before us are clearly substantial and require action from all branches of government,” Cummings said, in the letter. “Please let me know what, in your mind, Congress, as both a policy-making and investigative body, can do to assist Americans in protecting their homes. “As pleased as I have been with the results we have been able to generate for the nearly 3,000 people that have attended my three foreclosure prevention workshops, I know that there is still more we can do on a broader basis, provided Congress and the Administration continue to respond with what Dr. King and President Obama have called, ‘the fierce urgency of now.’” Each month in Maryland, more than 6,000 homeowners face foreclosure actions. Cummings’ last foreclosure prevention workshop, which matched borrowers with lenders to encourage modification, took place in February.. -30-
03.04.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 4, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Leads The Way In Fight Against Prostate Cancer Congressman questions witnesses in hearing, introduces PRIME Act to combat the disease. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today announced the Prostate Research, Imaging, and Men’s Education (PRIME) Act, H.R. 4756, which will provide federal funding for screening, detection and treatment of prostate cancer. Cummings also questioned witnesses in a hearing regarding new concerns over screening and treatment for prostate cancer. The hearing, held by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, was requested by Cummings who has long been an advocate for prostate cancer awareness. Thousands of families in the United States are impacted by prostate cancer each year. It is the second most common cancer in men, striking 1 in every 6, and is the second leading cause of cancer-related death in men. In 2009, studies reported that over 190,000 men were diagnosed with prostate cancer and more than 27,000 died from the disease. While no man is immune to this threat, African American men are 60% more likely to be stricken with prostate cancer and have a 100% higher mortality rate than Caucasians. “Despite the tragic statistics surrounding prostate cancer, there are no reliable, accurate diagnostic tools for the detection and treatment of the disease,” said Cummings. “We must allow patients to make informed decisions. I am concerned that many men will not bother to have the initial discussion with their physician because of new reports that screening will not make a difference in their overall health. The PRIME Act establishes a new funding initiative within the National Institutes of Health to research and develop prostate imaging technologies in order to substantially improve prostate cancer detection and treatment, making them comparable to mammography. The bill authorizes $100 million per year for five years in HHS-funded research to develop such technologies. The legislation also authorizes $20 million per year for five years to develop an improved prostate cancer blood test and $10 million per year for public awareness and education. It also creates a national campaign to increase awareness about prostate cancer screening. -30-
03.04.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 4, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Demands Coast Guard Be Treated Fairly In 2011 Budget Congressman requests Coast Guard budget be expanded in 2011, supporting operational needs and ongoing acquisitions. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, (MD-07) argued Wednesday, in favor of bipartisan recommendations included in the “Views and Estimates of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure for Fiscal Year 2011” adopted by the Committee for presentation to the Committee on the Budget. The Views and Estimates recommend $10.2 billion in funding for the Coast Guard in fiscal year 2011, an increase of $346 million over the funding provided to the service in fiscal year 2010. The recommendation is $623 million more than that called for by President Barack Obama. The Administration-recommended budget would reduce the size of the Coast Guard’s workforce by 773 positions, decommission five cutters and remove various air assets from Coast Guard service, and decommission five Maritime Safety and Security Teams (MSST). The recommendations included in the Views and Estimates would restore many of these proposed cuts. “Given how thin the Coast Guard is already stretched, the proposed Administration cuts would reduce the capacity of the Coast Guard to carry out its missions,” said Cummings. “That is an outcome that is simply unacceptable. The Coast Guard is our last line of defense, our first response in a rescue situation and the tip of the spear in the War on Drugs. While we rightly lavish funds on the four armed forces under the Department of Defense, too often we ask the Coast Guard to do more with less. That harms the American people because it harms the Coast Guard members who protect and defend our nation and ensure the safety of travel by sea.” The Coast Guard led the American response to the Haitian earthquake. However, because of chronic budgetary issues, of the 12 cutters that responded to Haiti, 10 suffered severe mission-affecting casualties; two were forced to return to port for repair and are still unable to operate; and one proceeded to an emergency drydock, according to USCG Admiral Thad Allen. The average USCG High Endurance cutter is 41 years old, compared to 14 years for the average U.S. Navy ship. The recommendations adopted in the Views and Estimates would restore two High Endurance Cutters, as well as the air assets cut under President Obama’s budget and the MSSTs. Also recommended is $1.64 billion for the service’s capital acquisitions, including funding for long-lead materials for a sixth National Security Cutter, and funding for the construction of an icebreaker that was authorized in legislation that passed the House in 2009. Congressman Cummings’ statement in support of the restoration of proposed cuts in the Coast Guard’s budget will be transmitted with the Views and Estimates document. -30-
03.03.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 3, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Supports President Obama’s Path Toward Healthcare Reform Congressman agrees that the time to act is now, and that action must be comprehensive and bold. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today gave his full support to President Obama’s plan to pass healthcare reform as soon as possible. At a speech Wednesday afternoon, the President asked Congress to pass the comprehensive healthcare reform bill that has already passed the Senate. Congress would then reconcile the bill with improvements agreed to by the House of Representatives, and those in Obama’s plan. “The time to act is now,” said Cummings. “We have come too far in our efforts to protect more Americans. We can see the path we must take toward better, less expensive coverage for more American families. That is why we must not stop just to start over. We have a moral obligation to finish this journey. “Democrats in Congress reached across the aisle for help and ideas. We received both, and they will be included in any reform. The President listened to Republicans last Thursday. Many of their ideas are included in his proposal. I was particularly intrigued by Senator Coburn’s idea to cut down on waste, fraud and abuse with ‘undercover patients.’ “However, the reason I stand with the President is that he echoed my thoughts in his speech Wednesday. He said, ‘I don’t know how this plays politically, but I know it’s right.’ “I know it is right to bring costs down for American families. I know it is right to change the healthcare spending habits of our nation. I know it is right to touch the lives of millions who lack healthcare due to pre-existing conditions, or whose insurance is cancelled when they get sick. I know it is right, and I will stand with the President. We will move forward, and we will get the job done.” -30-
03.03.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 3, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Announces Beginning of Census 2010: Get Counted! Census forms go out to Marylanders beginning this week. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) has partnered with the United States Census Bureau, asking all Marylanders to respond to the official United States Census, which begins in earnest this week. Households should complete and mail back their forms upon receipt. Census workers will visit households that do not return forms to take a count in person. “Many groups in Maryland are historically undercounted in the Census, but this year, I am dedicated to ensuring each resident understands the importance of participating in the 2010 Census,” said Cummings. “I am excited to partner with the Census Bureau on this important initiative and committed to helping increase overall participation in 2010.” Every year, the federal government distributes more than $400 billion to state, local and tribal governments based on census data. Leaders use this data to guide planning decisions on where to build new roads, hospitals, child-care and senior citizen centers, schools and more. Data also determine the number of seats each state will have in the U.S. House of Representatives. More than 140,000 organizations supported Census 2000 as partners, including community- and faith-based organizations, schools, state, local and tribal governments, media, businesses and others. The U.S. Constitution requires a population and housing census every 10 years. The massive undertaking has been referred to as the largest peacetime mobilization in U.S. history. The effort employs some of the most sophisticated technical and operational knowledge and tools available, as well as a work force of more than 500,000 enumerators to count every man, woman and child once, and only once, and in the right place. Information shared with the Census Bureau is completely confidential. By law, the Census Bureau cannot share respondents' answers with anyone, including tribal housing authorities, other federal agencies and law enforcement entities. All Census Bureau employees take the oath of nondisclosure and are sworn for life to protect the confidentiality of the data. -30-
03.02.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: March 2, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Supports Cardin’s Call For End Of Bunning Blockade Senior Senator from Kentucky is obstructing unemployment/COBRA benefits and Medicare reimbursement, while forcing thousands of Americans out of work. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today stood in solidarity with Maryland Senator Ben Cardin, who delivered an impassioned plea Tuesday morning on the floor of the Senate. The request was that Republican Jim Bunning of Kentucky stop his filibuster, which has been obstructing passage of legislation to extend unemployment and COBRA benefits, to protect doctors from a massive cut in Medicare reimbursements and to fund projects that employ thousands of Department of Transportation employees. Because of the Bunning filibuster, more than 16,000 Marylanders are without unemployment and COBRA benefits. “One senator has exercised his right to object, which has caused major problems for this country,” said Cardin. “I feel compelled to talk about this because there are real people being hurt by that decision. We need a short-term extension so that we can continue the orderly process. It's the right thing to do.” Cummings supports the Maryland Senator, not just for those who are unemployed, but for the thousands of DOT workers who have been laid off, until funding for their programs can be reestablished. “It is outrageous that one Senator can kill a piece of legislation and cause chaos for our cities and states,” Cummings, a Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, said last week. “Thanks to this one person’s stubbornness, Maryland will not be reimbursed for its federal share of highway projects until we get this mess sorted out. At a time when jobs are still being lost and the State budget is balanced on a razor’s edge, this will cause nothing but grief in Annapolis and in state capitals throughout the country.” Employees at several DOT agencies faced layoffs beginning Tuesday unless Congress acts quickly to restore the lost funding. A different bill pending in the House would extend SAFETEA-LU through the end of 2010. That bill may come up for a vote as early as Tuesday, and it is possible that the employees would not be furloughed if there is assurance that enactment of a funding bill is imminent. “We have a piece of legislation that, without any doubt, will keep Americans working,” said Cummings. “To not pass that legislation, to put thousands of Americans out of work, to stop the hiring of thousands more and to endanger motorists throughout the nation is not representing the needs of Americans. It is only representing the ego of one Senator.” During Bunning’s filibuster, states may have to suspend work on some road and bridge projects while they wait for reimbursement payments from the federal government. -30-
02.26.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: February 26, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Objects To Senate Stall Shutting Down DOT Programs Congressman angry that GOP filibuster stops extension bill, may force furloughs. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) is furious that the Senate’s failure to overcome the objections of a single Republican Senator means funding for federal highway, transit and highway safety programs will run out at midnight Sunday night. The expiration may also force employee layoffs at the Department of Transportation, including the Federal Highway Administration, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. The current surface transportation authorization act, the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act—A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), was due to expire last September 30, but has been kept alive by a series of extensions while Congress considers a replacement authorization bill. The latest extension expires Sunday. “It is outrageous that one Senator can kill a piece of legislation and cause chaos for our cities and states,” said Cummings, a Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. “Thanks to this one person’s stubbornness, Maryland will not be reimbursed for its federal share of highway projects until we get this mess sorted out. At a time when jobs are still being lost and the State budget is balanced on a razor’s edge, this will cause nothing but grief in Annapolis and in state capitals throughout the country.” Employees at the three DOT agencies face layoffs beginning Tuesday unless Congress acts quickly to restore the lost funding. A different bill pending in the House would extend SAFETEA-LU through the end of 2010. That bill may come up for a vote as early as Tuesday, and it is possible that the employees would not be furloughed if there is assurance that enactment of a funding bill is imminent. “We have a piece of legislation that, without any doubt, will keep Americans working,” said Cummings. “To not pass that legislation, to put thousands of Americans out of work, to stop the hiring of thousands more and to endanger motorists throughout the nation is not representing the needs of Americans. It is only representing the ego of one Senator.” In the meantime, states may have to suspend work on some road and bridge projects while they wait for their reimbursement payments from the federal government. -30-
02.25.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: February 25, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Pleased With Senate Committee Progress On Witness Protection Bill to help States protect violent crime witnesses, authored by Cummings, passes through Senate committee. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) was pleased today with the passage, through a Senate committee, of the Witness Security and Protection Grant Program Act of 2009, H.R. 1741. The Senate Judiciary Committee approved the bill by an 18-1 margin and it will now proceed to the Senate floor for final vote by that body. The bill, which was authored by Cummings, would direct the Attorney General to create grants for state and local governments to fund programs to protect witnesses in court proceedings involving homicide, serious felonies, or serious drug offenses. The grants would pay for developing models to assist states in addressing witness safety, short-term and permanent witness relocation, financial and housing assistance, and other necessary services. “It is wonderful that the Senate has moved this bill along the process,” said Congressman Cummings. “I am eager to stand beside President Obama as he signs it into law. There is a culture among young people and many areas that are beset by violent crime, that “snitching” is dishonorable. Nothing could be further from the truth. We must have the ability to protect those who are willing to make their communities safer, by reporting crimes and helping bring those responsible to justice. Without the cooperation of the public, it is impossible for law enforcement to effectively do its job. This bill will go a long way toward protecting witnesses so that they might provide that much needed cooperation.” The bill has the support of Patricia Jessamy, State’s Attorney for Baltimore City, Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley, The Maryland Sheriff’s Association, the National Center for Victims of Crime, the Maryland Crime Victims Resource Center, the National Crime Victims Law Institute, the National Organization for Victim Assistance and the National District Attorneys Association. -30-
02.24.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: February 24, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Questions LaHood, Toyota Executives Congressman takes part in committee hearing surrounding recent safety issues. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today questioned Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood, as well as Toyota CEO Akio Toyoda, during a lengthy hearing on Toyota vehicle safety, conducted by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Early in the hearing, when speaking with Secretary LaHood, Congressman Cummings asked for a firm answer on a question that many Toyota owners across the nation have had. After an earlier question had failed to bring the clarity Cummings wanted, he said, “I don't think you really answered the question, 'Are Toyotas safe to drive?'” LaHood responded with much more clarity, saying that cars listed on the DOT Web site are not safe and should go back to the dealer. Cummings continued seeking answers when Mr. Toyoda took the stand, “Time after time, there are pronouncements that problems are being addressed and over and over again, it seems they are not being addressed. People in my district say they have to call and wait to get their cars repaired, but they have to take children to the baby sitter, they have to do their marketing. “How do you say to your customers, the people who take their hard earned dollars in a tough economic time and spend them on a Toyota vehicle, how do you say to them, ‘You can trust us now,’ when it seems as if there is no end to this series of promises that seem to come short of reaching the goal of safety?” Toyoda expressed regret that Americans were injured in Toyota vehicles. He added that tests were conducted within Toyota, and he had no doubt of the effectiveness of the safety program at Toyota. He finished by saying they would thoroughly examine data recorders, and make changes that were needed. In his statement for the committee record, Cummings succinctly explained why these hearings were so crucial, “There are over 2,000 complaints reported to NHTSA on sudden unintended acceleration since 1999. More than half of those reports involve vehicles outside the current recalls. Crystal clear communication is absolutely imperative. It is a matter of life and death. “It bothers me a great deal to hear stories in the news speculating that Members of this Committee may question Toyota unfairly during this hearing citing the federal bailout of General Motors and Chrysler as motive. This hearing is about ensuring that the American people can feel safe and secure when driving.” -30-
02.22.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: February 22, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Votes To Strip Health Insurance Anti-Trust Exemption Congressman supports treating health insurance organizations like most other American companies. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today voted to pass H.R. 4626, the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act. Once signed by the President, the legislation will take away the anti-trust exemption for health insurance companies, requiring them to compete fairly and adhere to the same anti-trust laws as other companies. The bill passed the House by a tally of 406-19. It will also give the American people more choice in their health care by requiring health insurance companies to compete fairly and adhere to the same anti-trust laws as other companies. “Insurance companies have been able to avoid legal accountability for price fixing, dividing up territories among themselves, and sabotaging their competitors in the marketplace in order to gain a monopoly for decades,” said Cummings. “Marylanders have paid higher premiums, had a lower quality of coverage and have been limited in their insurance choices. “In Maryland, two companies have 63 percent of the insurance business. 96 percent of all health insurance markets are, like ours, “highly concentrated”. Consumers have little or no choice between insurers and it is too easy for insurance companies to collude on prices and practices. Now, anti-trust enforcement will finally be possible, to protect Americans from collusion in the industry and to create more choices.” Stripping the anti-trust exemption from insurance companies was part of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, which was passed by the House of Representatives last year. -30-
02.22.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: February 22, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Asks For Clarification Of Republican Healthcare Plan Congressman seeks details regarding policy and spending provisions in GOP alternative. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today sent a letter to House Minority Leader John Boehner, regarding the proposed Republican healthcare plan. Prior to this week’s healthcare summit at Blair House, Congressman Cummings wants to ensure that both he and his constituents have a true understanding of Republican plans for healthcare reform. “Republican Members have presented a plan, which they will discuss with the President,” said Cummings. “I have read their plan. While I fully understand the Democratic plans, I ask Republicans for clarification regarding their plan. I am interested in the Republican claim that those Americans with pre-existing conditions will be able to purchase coverage. “The Republican bill addresses customers with pre-existing conditions, but does not stop healthcare companies from discriminating against those customers. The Republican plan mandates that States create high-risk pools for these customers. Rather than stopping discrimination by private insurance companies, it appears the Republican plan would create “separate but equal” plans for those suffering from pre-existing conditions. “The Republican plan spends $25 billion to aid States in creating these high-risk pools. Like the Medicare prescription drug plan passed by President Bush, the Republican healthcare bill offers no revenue offsets or increased taxes to pay for this subsidy to State governments. “The Republican plan also mandates that the States only charge 150 percent of the average insurance premium, for the customers in this pool, who are likely to require more healthcare than average Americans. “Uninsured rates are well over 13 percent in Indiana and Ohio and over 27 percent in Texas. In my own state of Maryland they are at 14 percent, so, I am very interested in any plan that promises to help Americans with pre-existing conditions get coverage. With that in mind, my questions for Mr. Boehner and my Republican colleagues are as follows: 1. Under your bill, will Americans with pre-existing conditions be guaranteed the same service and benefits that healthier Americans receive from private insurance companies? 2. Under your bill, will States be forced to subsidize the difference between costs sustained by a high-risk pool, and the 150 percent of average premiums that the high-risk pool is limited to charging? 3. How will you pay for the $25 billion in State subsidies, and how will you pay for any cost overruns that States will incur? Or will this be an unfunded mandate? “The healthcare summit Thursday is about bipartisanship, and finding real solutions to the incredible healthcare issues facing this nation. I want to know more about Republican solutions, so I can encourage the President to accept and support the solutions that will help the American people. I ask that Mr. Boehner clarify his bill, and that Republicans address questions like mine on Thursday.” The section of the Republican healthcare substitute bill dealing with pre-existing conditions is described by the GOP website, “The bill requires States establish either a functioning high-risk pool or a reinsurance program and provides $25 billion in federal funding for these programs. Insurance offered through these programs will ensure everyone has access to affordable health care, regardless of their health status. States will have to eliminate high-risk pool waiting lines and premiums for enrollees in high-risk pools would be limited to 150% of the average premium charged in a State (currently capped at 200%).” [gop.gov] -30-
02.13.2010	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} United States Congressman Elijah E. CummingsProudly Serving Maryland's 7th District HUhttps://www.house.gov/cummingsUH 2235 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 (202) 225-4741 FAX (202) 225-3178 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: February 17, 2010 Paul Kincaid, 202-225-4289 Cummings Acknowledges One Year Anniversary Of Recovery ActCongressman notes more than 2 million jobs, tax cuts for 95 percent of American workers. (Baltimore, MD) -- Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) today reported that, at the one year mark, efforts to create American jobs and rebuild the economy are working. Independent analysis shows the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act has saved and created more than 2 million jobs, cut taxes for 95% of working Americans, offered tax cuts and loans to millions of small businesses, extended unemployment and COBRA health benefits for those looking for work, and started to lay a new foundation for our economy with key investments in high speed rail, clean and efficient energy, high-speed broadband and wireless communications, and electronic medical records. “This time last year, our economy was in freefall, losing more than 700,000 jobs a month, cutting into Americans’ retirement savings, freezing lending to small businesses, and hurting families working to make ends meet,” said Cummings. “Working with President Obama, we’ve been able to save and create more than two million jobs in the first year of a two-year effort and bring our economy back from the brink. We still have a long way to go to put more Americans back to work, but we’re clearly moving in right direction.” In Maryland alone, the Recovery Act helped save and create 36,000 jobs. The Recovery Act was a combination of tax cuts, job-creating projects, and aid to state and local governments to keep teachers, firefighters, and police officers on the job. It has already provided nearly $120 billion in tax relief for American families and businesses, including the Making Work Pay Tax Credit for 237,000 middle-class families in the 7th District of Maryland and the first-time homebuyers tax credit used by more than 28,000 households in Maryland. It has also supported nearly $20 billion in loans to more than 42,000 small businesses across the nation and provided $250 recovery payments to seniors and disabled veterans in Maryland. Economists on both side of the aisle credit the Recovery Act with slowing job losses and keeping the economy from heading into a second Great Depression. And while partisan opponents of this legislation criticize it on TV and inside the Beltway, they attend ribbon cuttings back in their districts – taking credit for Recovery Act projects and the jobs they create. “Our economy is growing at the fastest rate in six years and we’ve seen millions of jobs created and saved in both the private and public sector,” said Cummings. “But while our country is heading in the right direction, too many Marylanders are still out of work and too many of our families are struggling to make ends meet. That’s why jobs remain my number one priority and I will continue to do everything possible to make sure that we rebuild our economy in a way that works for the middle class.” The House has already passed the Jobs for Main Street Act to launch more job-creating projects, help small business hire workers, increase emergency aid for families struggling without a steady paycheck, and put Americans back to work. The House has also passed a clean energy jobs bill that is estimated to create more than 1.7 million new jobs by working with Recovery Act investments. The House is now working with the Senate to try to finalize health insurance reform legislation that is estimated to create 4 million new jobs. -30-
02.12.2010	(Washington, DC) -- Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) and Maryland Senators Mikulski and Cardin were pleased to learn of a grant to train healthcare professionals in Baltimore County, announced today by Department of Labor Secretary Hilda Solis. The grant, which totals more than $4 million, will be used by local One Stop Career Centers to create healthcare training opportunities at the Community College of Baltimore County. The grant was part of the Health Care Sector and Other High Growth and Emerging Industries job training grant awards authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “This grant comes at a time in our nation when jobs are at a premium, but when healthcare providers are badly needed,” said Cummings. “As the Recovery Act nears its one year anniversary, this is another example of the Act creating opportunities for high-paying jobs here in Baltimore County. These are jobs that will stay here in America and which will help put Marylanders back to work.” The health care industry remains a critical driver in regional economies across the nation. Employment growth in the health care sector will be driven by significant increases in demand for health care and assistance because of an aging population and longer life expectancies. In addition, projected retirements for current health care workers will necessitate a pipeline of skilled individuals ready to enter health care occupations. Secretary Solis announced more than $225 million in Department of Labor grant awards that will be used to train 15,000 people in job skills needed to access careers in health care, IT and other high growth fields. Through existing partnerships with local employers, the recipients of the grants have already identified roughly 10,000 job openings for skilled workers that likely will become available in the next two years in areas like nursing, pharmacy technology and information technology. Congressman Cummings will take part in a telephone press conference with Secretary Solis today from 1:45 – 2:30 p.m. EST to announce the grants. If you would like to join that conference, please call 888-324-0798 and use passcode 134875. . -30-
02.11.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 (Baltimore, MD) – Wednesday, Congressman Cummings spoke with U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano to urge that Maryland receive federal support to recover from the severe snowstorms that dumped more than 40 inches of snow in the State within a week. “Public safety remains our number one priority,” Congressman Cummings said. “Our State has done a tremendous job to respond to these blizzard conditions, with many people working around the clock to ensure that our roads are clear and residents are safe. Today I told Secretary Napolitano about the stunning effects of the storms in my District, which have left countless roads closed and thousands without power. The digging out is far from over. That is why I stressed that we urgently need federal assistance so that our recovery can continue in the most effective and efficient manner possible.” -30-
02.08.2010	Congressman asks for Republicans colleagues to acknowledge bipartisanship and aid in reform. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) today encouraged Congressional Republicans to work with Democrats and President Obama to lower healthcare costs and protect the health and well-being of all Americans. A new report by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services estimates that spending on healthcare grew to 17.3% of the U.S. economy, the largest one-year increase in fifty years. The report also projects that in less than ten years, 1 of every 5 dollars spent by American families will go to healthcare expenses, nearly twice the world average. In an attempt to pass desperately needed healthcare reform, President Obama announced that he will meet with Democrats and Republicans from both chambers on February 25th in a televised healthcare summit. “My Republican colleagues asked for compromise, and Democrats consistently delivered,” said Cummings. “However, every time a compromise was offered, the answer came back, ‘no’. That is not the way to meet this enormous challenge. The President has once again extended his hand and I ask Republicans to reach out and make an honest effort to help Americans who are suffering.” Cummings’ request came in light of a recent Washington Post article, highlighting four reform principles sought by Republicans, according to the GOP’s “Solutions for America.” Each principle is present in the Senate healthcare reform bill, which passed the Senate while receiving no Republican votes. The four principles are: 1. Allowing families to purchase insurance across state lines. 2. Allowing individuals and small businesses to pool together to purchase insurance. 3. Giving states the tools to create reforms to lower costs. 4. Meaningful tort reform. Two other changes often sought by Republicans also exist in the Senate bill: ending tax-breaks for employer-sponsored insurance and creating reform with no public component. “The bill passed by the Senate has dozens of Republican amendments, of hundreds they offered,” said Cummings. “Both the House and Senate bills have these four principles that were important to Republicans in the past. The Senate bill even compromises on the public insurance option that I still believe is crucial to create competition. For Republicans to claim a lack of bipartisanship, or that they were shut out of the process is disingenuous. We have an opportunity, and the moral imperative, to help Americans who have insurance pay less, to protect those who lack coverage, and to encourage all Americans to live healthier lives. In the name of those Americans whose families are suffering and whose healthcare costs are pushing them over the edge into poverty, I am asking my Republican colleagues to join Democrats, and the President, in solving their problems, rather than obstructing the solutions.” -30- ###
02.08.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman sends prayers and condolences to Murtha family. (Baltimore, MD) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) released the following statement after the death of Congressman John P. Murtha, who died Monday at the age of 77. “Congressman Murtha was a wonderful public servant with whom I was proud to serve,” said Cummings. “His time as a United States Marine imparted incredible leadership skills that he displayed masterfully in this chamber, as he served this nation and the people of Pennsylvania with incredible talent and dedication. “It was my privilege to work with Congressman Murtha, to ensure that Historically Black Colleges and Universities were not overlooked in the allocation of funds that strengthen the critical fields of technology and defense. Congressman Murtha’s determination ensured that our fighting men and women were the best trained and equipped in the world. I will miss him greatly, and I send my condolences and sympathies to his friends and family.” Murtha, who had suffered complications after gall bladder surgery, became the longest serving House Member in Pennsylvania history, the Saturday before his passing. -30- ###
02.04.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressmen Urge Extension of Programs Responsible for Keeping Mortgage Rates Low, Making Homeownership More Attainable. (Washington, DC) – With the strength of the housing market linked directly to overall economic prosperity, Congressman Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) and Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) are leading the effort in Congress to convince the Obama administration and Federal Reserve to reverse course and continue several key programs due to soon expire or change that are critical to keeping mortgage rates low and making homeownership more attainable. In letters sent to President Obama and Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke this week, Hinchey and Cummings laid out a series of steps the administration should take -- some in partnership with Congress -- to prevent the housing market from becoming dramatically worse. Hinchey and Cummings also called on the Joint Economic Committee (JEC), of which they are both members, to hold hearings on the various home ownership programs that are in jeopardy of expiring. "While we're seeing signs that the economy is beginning to turn around, it's extremely important that the housing market is handled with great care and that there aren't any sudden changes in policy that could lead to a second economic collapse," Hinchey said. "I'm leading the effort in Congress to convince the Obama administration and the Federal Reserve to adapt to the facts on the ground and modify their plans to terminate the various federal programs that have helped stabilize the housing market, kept mortgage rates low and provided extra tax relief and incentives to homebuyers. The abrupt termination of these programs could unravel much of the progress we've made in stabilizing the economy. We have a good opportunity to further stabilize and strengthen the housing market across the country while also continuing to provide strong incentives that will encourage people to buy homes." "It is absolutely critical that we do not take our eyes off the ball right now," said Cummings. "The economy has shown signs of recovery and along with creating jobs, we must try to stabilize the housing market, to keep as many Americans as possible in their homes. Not only will this keep property values higher, but it will allow for a renewed sense of community. Neighborhoods that have grown weary of vacated homes and overgrown lawns will be able to thrive with new hope in our economic turnaround." The Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve have announced that next month they plan to stop buying mortgage-backed securities - a collection of mortgages grouped together as a tradable security. Such a move would mean that mortgage rates, which are at record lows, would likely start to steadily rise. Hinchey noted that increased rates would make it more difficult for new buyers to be able to afford a home while also forcing prices to drop even further. In their letter, Hinchey and Cummings, who is also a member of the JEC, urged President Obama and Chairman Bernanke to continue the purchasing of mortgage-backed securities in order to keep rates low. Hinchey and Cummings noted that the $8,000 federal tax credit for first-time homebuyers and the new $6,500 federal tax credit for non-first-time homebuyers who have been in their current residence at least five years, are both set to expire on April 30, 2010. The congressmen voted for both the initial homebuyer tax credit, which applied only to first time homebuyers, as well as a second bill that extended the program through April and added the tax credit for existing homeowners. With the housing market still fragile, Hinchey and Cummings are cosponsoring legislation in the House to extend the first-time homebuyers tax credit through the end of 2010. With many banks requiring at least 20 percent down to purchase a home, Hinchey and Cummings noted the Federal Housing Administration's (FHA) mortgage-backed program that requires a down payment of 3.5 percent, has become a critical program that has helped many Americans purchase a home. The FHA is due to soon reduce the amount of money that home sellers can contribute to the buyers' closings costs. That reduction will go from 6 percent of a home's sale price to 3 percent. The FHA is also due to increase its upfront mortgage insurance fee from 1.75 percent to 2.25 percent of the loan. -30- ###
02.04.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 (Baltimore, MD) –Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today released a statement on the occasion of the swearing in of new Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. “I congratulate my friend Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, on becoming the 49th Mayor of my hometown, Baltimore. Mayor Rawlings-Blake takes over the helm of a city that, like so many others, is still reeling from the effects of our national economic downturn. However, I know that with her leadership and incredible work ethic, combined with the wonderful spirit and optimism of the people in the City of Baltimore, we will not only recover, but we will again thrive as a city.” -30- ###
02.03.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Unemployment falls to 9.7 percent, but Americans still hurting. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today released a statement following the descent of the unemployment rate below 10 percent. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that unemployment was at 9.7 percent, and that employment numbers were down only 20,000. “While it is good to see that the unemployment rate fell below ten percent again, one American job lost is one job too many,” said Cummings. “We owe it to those still standing on the sidelines to work our hardest to get them back in the game. However, it is critical to remember that last January, 779,000 Americans lost their jobs. The President’s plan is working. “I will keep fighting for small businesses, fighting to keep people in their homes and fighting to create good American jobs, because our plan is working and we must keep fighting to bring America back.” -30- ###
02.03.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman understands that $195 million in retention payments are contractually obligated. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today addressed the millions of dollars in retention payments given to employees of American Insurance Group (AIG), calling the bonuses “distasteful.” The bonus payout is part of a previously known $195 million award that was promised to employees of the AIG Financial Products unit. Payments will go only to current and former employees at the company's Financial Products division who agreed to accept between 10 and 20 percent less money than AIG had initially promised them years ago. In return, they are receiving their payments more than a month ahead of schedule. “I appreciate the willingness of AIG employees to give some of their bonuses back,” said Cummings. “However, AIG still owes taxpayers and there is little that AIG employees can do to deserve these bonuses while that is still the case. “[Special Master for Pay] Mr. Feinberg has examined these distasteful bonuses and unfortunately found that they are required retention payments. I trust the capable oversight that Mr. Feinberg has provided, and I hope these bonuses are, at the very least, a tradeoff toward winding down the AIG Financial Products division faster. “In the meantime, I am looking forward, trying to fix the results of excessive risk taken by financial groups like AIG. That means continuing to work with the President to keep people in their homes and to create more American jobs.” The AIG bonuses are not based on production, but are retention bonuses, keeping employees at the insurance giant to help close down divisions of the company which contributed so mightily to the national economic downturn. Special Master for Pay Kenneth Feinberg noted that AIG executives have pledged to pay back $39 million out of $45 million in previous bonuses to the U.S. Treasury. -30- ###
02.01.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Proposed FY 2011 budget would help millions of Marylanders, create jobs and invest in education (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) commended the release today of President Obama’s proposed FY 2011 budget. The proposed budget would move toward the President’s goal of cutting the deficit by half, while investing in new jobs, better education and more security for Americans. “Obviously, there are some areas where we will seek compromise between the House of Representatives and the White House,” said Cummings. “However, overall I am quite pleased with the work done by the President and his Office of Management and Budget. This plan will extend tax cuts that help 95 percent of working families in Maryland. It will invest more than ever in K-12 education that is the bedrock of our future. Most importantly, it will create the jobs we need to recover and to thrive in the modern, global marketplace. I look forward to working with my colleagues to mesh the President’s ideas with our own, to help restore fiscal responsibility to our spending.” The Obama budget is just over $3.8 trillion. It includes critical investments to spur private sector job creation and will focus on key areas to strengthen the economic security of American families with investments in education, clean energy, infrastructure, and innovation. It is estimated that Maryland will see tax cuts for 2.1 million families, with $717.2 million allocated for schools, students, and teachers; $982.5 million to fix and expand the state’s network of roads and highways, modernize airports, and expand water and sewer infrastructure; $416.2 million in new funding for Pell Grants to help families pay for college; and $646.7 million for housing assistance. -30- ###
01.29.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman joins President Obama in touring local manufacturing company. (Baltimore, MD) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) today released a statement welcoming the president of the United States to Baltimore. The President will visit a manufacturing facility in the city before sitting down with House Republicans at the Republican issues conference, which will take place in Congressman Cummings’ district. "I thank the President for visiting my hometown and I applaud him for reaching out to Republicans to urge them to become a part of the solution to put America back on track,” said Cummings. “Although this is not the first time that President Obama has reached across the aisle, the urgency of now requires that we put partisanship aside in order to move toward recovery. “I urge my Republican colleagues to stop with the attacks and the permanent negative campaign and work with the President and Democrats to help us lead.” ###
01.28.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Study project spearheaded by Baltimore-area Congressman receives Federal stimulus funding. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) was pleased today with the President’s announcement of a commitment of $8 billion to high-speed rail investment throughout the nation. The announcement, in Tampa, FL, focused on that state’s SunRail system. However, included in the investment will be $60 million to complete preliminary engineering and environmental analysis activities necessary to prepare for the replacement of the Baltimore and Potomac (B&P) tunnel in Baltimore, MD. The eventual replacement of the aging tunnel will improve reliability and reduce Amtrak trip times, including on the high-speed Acela. “As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and as someone who sees the importance of rail travel in my community, I know that replacement of the aging B&P tunnel is critical to enabling us to develop modern, high speed rail service on the Northeast Corridor. Replacement of the tunnel is also essential to improving MARC service.” Congressman Cummings secured Congressional authorization of the B&P rail tunnel project in Amtrak-related legislation enacted by Congress in 2008. In August of 2009, he sent a letter to the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration supporting the application submitted by the State for Recovery Act funding of the tunnel. “This Civil War-era tunnel… has essentially reached the end of its useful life,” Cummings said in the letter. “Its antiquated design forces trains to travel no more than 30 miles per hour through the structure and its height limitations do not allow the use of taller galley cars. Replacement of this structure with a modern tunnel is essential to providing the safe accommodations necessary to improve Amtrak service on the Northeast Corridor, including reducing travel times between Washington, D.C., and points north.” -30- ###
01.27.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman questions Geithner, others, on transparency and accountability. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) received testimony from Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, as well as TARP Special Inspector General Neil Barofsky and others, at a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing Wednesday morning. The hearing concerned payments made by AIG in 2008, using government funds made available to AIG by the New York Fed, to holders of default swap contract payments. Payments were made at 100 percent of their assigned value, despite negotiations undertaken by both AIG and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY), to lower the amount owed. Reports indicated that AIG may have been pressured by employees of the FRBNY to avoid or delay disclosing to the Securities and Exchange Commission credit default swap contract settlement payments, and the identities of counterparties who received payments. “My concern here has always been to ensure that the taxpayers’ money has been spent for their benefit, and this Committee, and this Congress act with the utmost integrity,” said Cummings. “I believe this hearing is an example of that integrity. The events that unfolded starting with the initial $85 billion Federal Reserve loan to AIG in September 2008 have been truly unprecedented, both in terms of scope and magnitude. “As distasteful as the AIG bailout was, the systemic risk posed by AIG to the domestic and international economies was real, and cannot be overstated. A disorderly AIG collapse would have been devastating far beyond Wall Street, well onto Main Street.” Secretary Geithner confirmed that he was recused from FRBNY dealings by the time the decision was made to manage the disclosures. Geithner also answered questions Congressman Cummings posed, regarding his own feelings on the importance of transparency. “There are very few cases where there should be a lag in disclosure, or some gap,” said Geithner. “In national security, in law enforcement, and in protection of confidential supervisory information; we would not want to disclose information that would hurt the taxpayer. We don’t want to make it harder for the taxpayer to recoup our investments. I agree with you, Congressman. Transparency is important; the taxpayers deserve and we have brought an unprecedented level of transparency and disclosure.” Also participating in the hearing were Thomas C. Baxter, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Elias Habayeb, Former Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer – Financial Services Division of American International Group, Inc.; former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson; and Stephen Friedman, Former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. -30- ###
01.27.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman believes Presidential agenda will move America forward. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) listened with great interest to President Obama’s State of the Union address Wednesday evening and was pleased with the leadership the President showed on the critical issues confronting the nation. “The President understands that we work for the people, and the people are upset,” said Cummings, following the address. “He knows America needs hope, and a new direction. He promised both during the campaign and I believe his address returned to that focus. “As the Representative of a state that has seen so much damage from the economic downturn, I have faith that President Obama has laid out the path toward recovery, and will be a fighting general, leading from the front as we battle down that path. “The President knows we must put people back to work, that we must show more fiscal discipline than the last Administration and that we have a moral obligation to make sure that our healthcare system in this nation protects every American. “It was important that the President realized health care reform must still live, and it must live because people are dying. “Echoing President Obama this evening, I call on my friends across the aisle to work with Democrats to help the nation recover from our troubles, and to move America forward for our children and for the future to which they will be our message.” -30- ###
01.20.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman brings homeowners, lenders together in an effort to keep Marylanders in their homes. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) will host a Foreclosure Prevention Workshop on Saturday, February 6, 2010, at Woodlawn Senior High School in Gwynn Oak, MD. The purpose of the workshop is to help people who are delinquent on their mortgages, or facing potential foreclosure get the information and resources they need to secure their homes. The event will also provide assistance to people who are seeking to re-finance their home loans or need a reduction in their current monthly mortgage payment or interest rate. Cummings has already held two of these workshops. “I hosted my first Foreclosure Prevention Workshop on June 6 of last year,” said Cummings. “It was a tremendous success. We were able to help nearly 1,000 people who were in jeopardy of losing their homes. We helped nearly the same number during the second one. These workshops are unique in that we are able to bring together the lenders and the borrowers to reach solutions on the spot.” To participate, borrowers must bring copies of the following: a detailed hardship letter; their two most recent paystubs for income verification; their last two monthly bank statements; their 2007 and 2008 tax returns; default letters or late notices from lenders; foreclosure notices or threats; and, a list of monthly household expenses. Organizers are asking those who are interested in attending to register at: www.house.gov/cummings. Twenty-eight lenders have been invited to attend the workshop. Attendees will be able to participate in negotiation sessions with these lenders. They will also have access to free legal advice and housing counseling and will be able to attend seminars about strengthening their credit scores and avoiding foreclosure scams. WHAT: Congressman Elijah E. Cummings’ Foreclosure Prevention Workshop WHERE: Woodlawn Sr. High School, 1801 Woodlawn Drive, Gwynn Oak, MD WHEN: Saturday, February 6, 2010 from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. WHO: All homeowners who need help are invited to attend. -30- ###
01.20.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman requests immediate investigation of governmental role in counterparty payments. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) along with House Oversight and Government Reform (OGR) Chairman Edolphus Towns (NY-10) today sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a full audit on interactions between American International Group (AIG) and the New York Federal Reserve Bank (FRBNY), specifically focusing on the handling of counterparty payment negotiations. The letter was sent following a statement made Tuesday by the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke, welcoming such an audit. As well, Mr. Bernanke promised a free and full release of documents concerning AIG to the OGR Committee, on which Congressman Cummings serves. “Such a review is a necessary component and complement to investigations conducted by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and the Special Inspector General for TARP (SIGTARP),” Cummings said in the letter. “The Federal Reserve has asked for this level of review and it is incumbent on Congress to follow through and ensure that sufficient oversight is cast on this issue.” The letter, sent to Acting Comptroller General Gene L. Dodaro, specifically requests a full review of any federal assistance given to AIG from September 2008 until the present. Cummings and Towns asked that the review examine, at a minimum: The decision-making process at AIG and FRBNY regarding payments made to AIG’s counterparties to credit default swap contracts on collateralized debt obligations, specifically whether the decision to pay at par “left money on the table”; Who made the decision to pay the counterparties at par and on what authority; The decision not to disclose the identities of the counterparties and other financial details in regulatory filings and Congressional testimony until March 15, 2009; The decision not to let AIG file for bankruptcy protection and; The implications of the AIG rescue for future federal assistance to private firms. “The GAO has already published helpful and insightful studies of AIG and the federal assistance extended to the firm,” said Cummings. “I hope that they can incorporate this foundational knowledge to create a comprehensive review of the government’s intervention into and interaction with AIG. Through this request, I ask not only what happened, but also, why?” The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform will hold a hearing on Wednesday, January 27,regarding the interaction between FRBNY and AIG. -30- ###
01.19.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman proud to support future national leaders from Baltimore City and Baltimore and Howard Counties. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) was proud to recently nominate 32 area high school students to attend four of our nation’s service academies. Eight were recommended to the United States Naval Academy (USNA) at Annapolis, MD; nine were nominated to the United States Military Academy (USMA) at West Point, NY; four will have the chance to attend the United States Air Force Academy (AFA) at Colorado Springs, CO and six will have an opportunity to learn skills vital to the Baltimore area, as they attend the United States Merchant Marine Academy (MMA) in Kings Point, NY. Four students were nominated to two academies. The Seventh District had 51 applicants for the nominations. The nominees include a set of twins ( Brett and Brandon Stokholm), two younger brothers of past nominees (Daniel Ojard and Arvind Stone), and two Olympic-level athletes (Mario West, a veteran of the Olympic Gymnastic trials and Kelly Stambaugh, who participates in the Maryland Olympic Athlete Development Program in Soccer.) The nominees also show great diversity in hometowns. 28 hail from Howard County, two live in Baltimore City and two are from Baltimore County. The nominees are listed below. Parents who wish for their children to join these students in service to the nation can find information on next year’s nomination application cycle at www.house.gov/cummings. Congressman Cummings will celebrate with the future leaders of our uniformed services next month. The Service Academy Nomination Celebration is scheduled for Saturday, February 13, 2010 from 12:30-3:30 at the Overhills Mansion in Catonsville. Nominations – Naval Academy: David Arnold; Gregory Bryant; Emily Bogdan; Aran McMurtray; Rachel Meise; Brandon Osborne; Alexander Song; Brett Stokholm; Brian Sweeney Military Academy at West Point: Maurice Arawole; Kyle Beneski; Christina Cho; Joseph Dassoulas; James Forest; Patrick Groh; Clinton Kittrel; Chang Lee; Brandon Stokholm Air Force Academy: Michael Edmondson; Christopher Fischer; Khoa Huynh; Kelly Stambaugh United States Merchant Marine Academy: Sean Cunningham; Jordan Greene; Do Hyung (David) Kim; Charles Medick; Arvind Stone; Mario West Multiple Nominations: Sean Hadley (USMA and AFA); Brendan Lorton (USMA, AFA, USNA); Daniel Ojard (USMA and AFA); Thomas Routt (USMA, AFA and MMA). -30- ###
01.19.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman is concerned with potential predatory lending practices, asks that new DOJ unit investigate. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today dispatched a letter to Assistant Attorney General Thomas E. Perez, regarding lending practices undertaken by Wells Fargo, and other institutions, in the Baltimore area. Cummings’ letter requested an investigation by the new Fair Lending unit, created within the Civil Rights Division Housing Section of the Justice Department. “I was pleased to hear about the formation of the Fair Lending unit,” Cummings said. “The foreclosure crisis has been one of the most challenging problems that I have faced in my decades of public service. Communities in Maryland’s Seventh District and across the nation have been decimated by the seemingly unending stream of defaults and foreclosures. “We must find a way to get this problem under control. The best way to do that is to find out what went wrong, and what we can fix. I hope my letter will help that process.” The Fair Lending unit will be tasked with pursuing lenders and brokers that have unfairly denied minorities access to home loans. It will also identify companies that targeted minorities for mortgages with loose underwriting standards or high interest rates that forced borrowers into foreclosure. In his letter, Cummings asked that Perez task the unit with answering several questions regarding Wells Fargo and other lenders: 1. Was there a systematic effort by any mortgage lender to drive minority borrowers into high-cost mortgage loans? 2. To what extent were any borrowers who were eligible for lower-cost products targeted for high-cost products? 3. To what extent do the practices observed in Baltimore mirror or deviate from practices observed in other urban areas? The Mayor and City Council of Baltimore brought suit against Wells Fargo Bank in January 2008 under the Fair Housing Act, alleging that Wells Fargo targeted African American neighborhoods in Baltimore for predatory mortgage loans. The city contended that Wells Fargo utilized “reverse redlining” practices, driving potential homebuyers in minority communities into high-cost mortgage products. The allegations referenced affidavits of former Wells Fargo employees, describing incentive programs that offered rewards based on the interest rate for each loan originated. While Judge J. Frederick Motz recently dismissed the case, the Associated Press has reported that Baltimore City intends to file an amended complaint. . -30- ###
01.16.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Celebration will recognize Congressman for commitment to expanding transit in Maryland. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) is proud to be recognized Monday, by the Conference of Minority Transportation Officials (COMTO) and by the Maryland Transit Administration, as a fierce advocate for public transportation. The recognition of Congressman Cummings’ leadership in public transportation for the state of Maryland will come at an awards breakfast, Monday morning, at the Cross Keys Radisson Hotel in Baltimore. Presenting the honor will be COMTO National President Julie Cunningham. As a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Congressman Cummings has consistently supported the improvement and deployment of public transportation systems throughout the United States. Thanks to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that Congressman Cummings supported, Maryland received more than $136 million in transit capital assistance and more than $15 million in fixed guideway aid. The state also received $44 million directed to the locally operated transit systems throughout Maryland. These funds have been essential to the implementation of capital projects on the Metro, the Light Rail, and the MARC systems as well as on the Baltimore metropolitan area bus service. Maryland also has a number of projects competing for funding from the High Speed Intercity Passenger Rail program and the TIGER grant program. The Conference Of Minority Transportation Officials is the premier organization for the training, education and professional development of minority transportation professionals. From the advancement of Historically Underutilized Businesses (HUBs), legislative initiatives, scholarship and program opportunities, COMTO's scope is varied and far reaching. -30- ###
01.16.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Award recognizes Congressman’s commitment to reducing and eliminating disparities in health care. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) is proud to be invited Sunday to receive the first King Equity Leadership Award from the Institute for the Advancement of Multicultural and Minority Medicine. The award is given, in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., to an individual who demonstrates commitment and contribution to bring about equity in healthcare, banking, finance, employment and education. The award will be presented Sunday morning by Aubrey Stephenson, President & CEO of Federal Management Systems & Dr. John Ruffin, Director, National Center on Minority Health & Health Disparities at the National Institutes on Health. Congressman Cummings has been a leader in the fight to address disparities present in our current health care system, and in supporting legislation that ensures health care reform will remove those disparities once and for all. His vote for H.R. 3962, the House version of health care reform, was partially based on the number of disparity reduction efforts present in the bill, including community-based care delivery improvements and upgrades to the Medicaid program. The Institute for the Advancement of Multicultural & Minority Medicine is a 501 (c) (3) non-profit organization that is focused on the elimination of health disparities among under-represented and underserved multicultural communities. -30- ###
01.14.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman, Commandant Allen discuss deployment of USCG assets to stricken area. (Baltimore, MD) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, spoke with United States Coast Guard Commandant ADM Thad Allen today, to discuss the reaction and deployment of Coast Guard assets and personnel to Haiti. As of Thursday morning, four USCG cutters were either on station or on their way to Haiti. As well, several air assets have worked with the U.S. Embassy to evacuate injured U.S. personnel, assess ground conditions and provide emergency assistance as needed. The service will continue to reconnoiter port areas, provide logistical support, deploy relief supplies and conduct further assessments, in conjunction with other military branches, Homeland Security and FEMA. These assessments hope to create the most effective route and docking scenario to allow ships to quickly deploy relief supplies. Airborne assets, including C-130 transport planes, are conducting medical emergency flights, transporting the injured and delivering much needed supplies. “The American people can be proud of all of our relief efforts, but can take particular pride in the efforts of the Coast Guard,” said Congressman Cummings. “Throughout its history, the Coast Guard has been our immediate responders, saving lives and helping those in need. This situation is no different, and the men and women of the Coast Guard have responded with the professionalism we have come to expect. “During our discussion, Commandant Allen briefed me regarding the Coast Guard’s strategy for continued deployment, relief and logistical efforts. Admiral Allen and the members of the Coast Guard continue to perform their duties with the highest professionalism and unwavering dedication to helping those in crisis.” ADM Allen said the Coast Guard was the first team to arrive in Haitian waters, providing communications support and ensuring that a sea route is created by setting up navigational aids. He also told Congressman Cummings that the Defense Department will be sending larger ships and other assets to assist those stricken by the disaster, allowing the Coast Guard to shift to a primary mission supporting navigation and tending to acute relief needs. -30- ###
01.13.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Chairman of Coast Guard subcommittee reports that multiple ships and planes are on the way to stricken island nation. (Baltimore, MD) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) today issued a statement, regarding the estimated 7.0 magnitude earthquake which struck Haiti Tuesday night. “Having travelled to Haiti, and visited with the people there, I am in constant prayer for the safety of those who survived the earthquake, and for the families and friends of those who have been killed,” said Cummings. “Before this disaster, Haiti was the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere, so the destruction will be incredibly difficult to overcome. I urge all Marylanders, and all Americans, to give generously. Even in a time where we see our country struggling, this disaster shows a depth of suffering, in what is truly a life-or-death situation. “As the Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, I can tell Haitians that help is on the way. The men and women of our Coast Guard have five cutters heading toward Haiti and airborne support is ready to lend a helping hand as well, bringing much needed relief to that island. “Americans are at their best in an emergency, and have always given selflessly to help those in need. I know that will be no different now, as we help the people of Haiti through their time of need.” -30- ###
01.11.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman pleased that slugger has finally stepped forward, encourages him to educate future athletes. (Baltimore, MD) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) today responded to the comments of baseball slugger Mark McGwire, who admitted using steroids during his career. McGwire, was recently hired as the hitting coach for the St. Louis Cardinals and said he realized he would have to talk about the steroid use, as well as testimony given to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. During this testimony, he was challenged on potential steroid use by Congressman Cummings, but refused to discuss allegations of use. “I am happy that Mr. McGwire has finally admitted what has been speculated about for so long,” said Cummings. “His playing career was tainted with the scourge of steroids, as indicated by the recent Hall of Fame voting, but it was also further marred by his refusal to admit wrongdoing and failure to try to rebuild his credibility. Now, after apologizing and admitting wrongdoing, he can do exactly that. “New York Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez admitted using performance-enhancing drugs and has shown contrition. Now, he is working to educate future ballplayers about the dangers of steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs. I would invite Mr. McGwire to use his new position, and the fame he earned as a player, to help ensure future generations do not fall into the same trap he did.” McGwire, who hit 583 career home runs, was chosen for Baseball Hall of Fame induction on only 24 percent of ballots cast in this years elections. 75 percent is required for election. -30- ###
01.08.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 92-year-old Biden matriarch passed away Friday afternoon. (Baltimore, MD) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) sent his condolences to Vice President Joseph Biden today, upon the passing, Friday, of Biden’s mother Jean, at the age of 92. “Jean Biden was the heart and soul of so many stories told by the Vice-President about his formative years, that she seemed part of the American family,” said Cummings. “Her loss will doubtless be felt heavily by the Vice-President, who she constantly called Joey and who regaled friends, colleagues and those on the campaign trail with stories of his beloved mother. I send my prayers and deepest sympathy to the entire Biden family on their loss.” -30-
01.06.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Recovery Act funds will help create Green job opportunities for Baltimore County. (Washington, DC) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) welcomed a grant totaling more than $4 million dollars announced Wednesday by U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis. The grant is part of a group of Energy Training Partnership awards authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The Energy Training Partnership grants total $100 million of the $500 million in Green Jobs training grant funding made available by the Recovery Act. “This grant is yet another example of Recovery Act investment creating opportunities for displaced workers,” said Cummings. “The economy has begun to recover, but we must continue stoking the fires of innovation to return to a time of prosperity. Encouraging workers to move toward a sustainable economy and keeping high-paying jobs in America is a wonderful way to do that.” The $4,637,551 was awarded to H-CAP Inc. H-CAP is the Healthcare Career Advancement Program, a national coalition of unions and employers supporting career advancement for healthcare workers. They will train healthcare workers to focus on energy, waste and water conservation. Training efforts will serve Baltimore County and Prince George’s County. The Energy Training Partnership grant program will provide nationwide training for workers that prepare them to enter efficiency and renewable energy industries, as well as green occupations in other industries. These grants invest in partnerships made up of a diverse set of stakeholders including labor organizations, public or private employers in the energy efficiency and renewable energy industries, and the workforce system. -30- ###
01.06.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 (Washington, DC) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) issued a statement today, regarding the resignation of Baltimore City Mayor Sheila Dixon: “Mayor Dixon has decided that it is in the best interest of herself, her family, and the people of Baltimore, to help the city move on and transition to new leadership,” said Cummings. “Mayor Dixon has had a long history of effective service to our city and I wish her well. I look forward to working with my good friend Stephanie Rawlings-Blake and the new leadership of Baltimore City as we move forward as one community to address the challenges facing our city.” -30- ###
01.06.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman also inquires regarding SIGTARP knowledge of Fed-requested limitation of public disclosure by insurance giant. (Washington, DC) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) Thursday sent two letters of request, both regarding revelations contained in media reports Thursday morning of potential pressure applied by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) on AIG. Reports indicate that the massive insurance company was pressured to avoid or delay disclosing, to the Securities and Exchange Commission, credit default swap contract settlement payments. In 2008, payments were made, using government funds made available to AIG by the FRBNY, to holders (“counterparties”) of these contracts. Payments were made at 100 percent of their assigned value, despite negotiations undertaken by both AIG and the FRBNY, to lower the amount owed. Criticism has been leveled at the FRBNY by TARP Special Inspector General (SIGTARP) Neil Barofsky, indicating that more could have been done to lower the amount paid, and better transparency could have been observed in reporting the negotiation process. The recent media reports highlighted E-mail messages indicating that the FRBNY may have pushed AIG to avoid fully disclosing the counterparty payments when making required SEC filings. The first letter sent Thursday by Congressman Cummings requests that House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Edolphus Towns open a full investigation, including committee hearings, into this issue and the revelations. “It is critical that we understand if the FRBNY did request the withholding of information and what the extent and nature of the pressure exerted by the FRBNY on AIG may have been,” Cummings wrote. “If evidence indicates that the FRBNY did indeed ask that AIG withhold information from its SEC filings, I believe the Committee should examine the specific nature of the information that the FRBNY allegedly asked AIG to withhold as well as the relevant statutory and regulatory disclosure requirements that applied to AIG at that time.” The letter to Chairman Towns also requests that Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner and Barofsky be called to testify at any potential hearing. Last year, Barofsky delivered a report, requested by Cummings and 26 other Members of Congress, regarding the counterparty payments. Barofsky is also the recipient of the second letter, containing several questions: In conducting his audit, was Mr. Barofsky aware of, and did he have access to, the email exchange between AIG officials and attorneys representing the FRBNY?; If he had access to the exchanges, why were they not mentioned in the report auditing AIG counterparty payments; or if he did not have access to the email exchange, how would this information have affected the conclusions reached and lessons learned in the audit?; Finally, in light of this information, does Mr. Barofsky believe it necessary or appropriate to re-open his audit? In closing the letter to Chairman Towns, Congressman Cummings detailed the key reason for both letters: “In all cases, the money provided by the FRBNY to AIG came from U.S. taxpayers and taxpayers had the right to know at the time the money was being provided how it was to be used – particularly if such information was required to be disclosed by AIG under SEC authority. “While full disclosure may not have occurred at the time the FRBNY provided federal aid to AIG, we can continue to work to ensure that the circumstances under which that aid was provided and the uses to which it was applied are now fully transparent.” Text of both letters can be obtained from Congressman Cummings’ office. -30- ###
01.05.2010	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman sends prayers and condolences to Johnson family. (Baltimore, MD) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) released the following statement after the loss of Mrs. Eunice W. Johnson, who died of renal failure at the age of 93. “America, and indeed, the world have lost a true pioneer in the publishing, fashion and philanthropic industries,” said Cummings. “Eunice Johnson and her husband, John H. Johnson, were a phenomenal team that created a media empire with Ebony/Jet that opened doors of opportunity and set the highest of standards for African Americans. “It is undisputable that Johnson Publishing gave countless African Americans their first exposure to possibilities that had only seemed available in our dreams and showed us how to turn those dreams into reality. Because there was a Eunice Johnson there is today an Oprah Winfrey, a Tyra Banks, and a Sheila Johnson – powerful African American women who now make history as they walk along the trail that she blazed. “We all can live better lives because of Mrs. Johnson. Her enduring legacy will be the integrity, elegance, generosity, and business acumen that she used to uplift people. My prayers are with her daughter Linda Johnson Rice, and the entire Johnson family.” -30- ###
12.28.2009	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman determined to ensure that everyday Americans receive the same attention as Wall Street. (Washington, DC) - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) was pleased to be invited to meet this morning with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, to discuss the Fed's future plans for economic recovery. In a meeting that lasted well over an hour, Congressman Cummings spoke with Chairman Bernanke about the importance he feels must be placed on the recovery of everyday Americans, in addition to restoring the stability of the financial system. "I am glad Chairman Bernanke and I were able to meet to discuss the concerns we both have, regarding the recovery and economic future of the nation," said Cummings. "He agreed with my feelings that the Federal Reserve, along with all our financial regulatory bodies, must keep the needs of Main Street at the forefront of our thoughts when regulating Wall Street." Cummings encouraged Chairman Bernanke and the Fed to continue to utilize everything in their financial arsenal to combat unemployment, and decrease foreclosure risk. He also stressed the importance of education, particularly important job training efforts that can lead to an innovative workforce. Cummings said he and the Chairman had a productive and open discussion about the state of the U.S. economy, the policies impacting the recovery, failures that occurred in regulation and oversight of the financial system and the tools necessary to prevent a future crisis. Bernanke identified three major improvements that could be made, which Congressman Cummings would also like to see. First, creating a systemic risk identification and control organization. Second, consolidating the regulation of large firms with multiple business units, e.g., a bank, broker-dealer, and consumer finance unit all as part of the same firm. Finally, resolution authority that ensures that "Too Big to Fail" is no longer the de facto outcome for large financial firms. Both Congressman Cummings and Chairman Bernanke agreed that capitalism offers both an upside and downside. Both believe regulatory policies must ensure that firms face consequences to risk-taking behavior and, should a firm fail, that failure not threaten the viability of the system as a whole. Congressman Cummings was pleased with the discussion, and felt it will greatly aid his ability to be an effective member of both the Joint Economic Committee and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, as both groups try to continue and improve our economic recovery. -30- ###
12.25.2009	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah Cummings today wished all Marylanders in the Seventh Congressional District, throughout the state and those who are returning for the holidays, a very happy holiday season. “This has been an incredible year for us all,” said Cummings. “When I came to Congress, it was my greatest wish to make a difference, not only in my District, but in my state and throughout the country. Last year, the American people came together and gave this country the gift of its first African-American President. This year, though times are still tough, and the gifts this holiday season may be a little less extravagant, the season is brighter with history being made again, with healthcare reform, and with signs that our nation is recovering from the economic downturn. In the New Year, I hope and pray we recover fully, that all Americans can take advantage of the opportunity this wonderful nation affords us, and that everyone in the country takes time to count their blessings.” -30- ###
12.24.2009	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Senate and House bills will now require reconciliation before final passage. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) today commended the United States Senate on their passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, H.R. 3590. The final vote was 60-39 for passage. “This was a truly historic vote,” said Congressman Cummings. “This Congress has, in less than a year, achieved more in the pursuit of truly universal, affordable, quality healthcare coverage for all Americans than anyone in the history of the country. I am excited that we are now in the final stretch. The Senate bill is good, but it is not perfect, and I do not believe it is the best result we can get. There are a number of improvements I would like to see made, and that I believe President Obama would like to see as well. He needs to answer the bell now, and come out fighting for the reforms this nation so badly needs, as he did in the campaign. All that being said, this bill will cover 31 million more Americans with healthcare. It will stop the use of pre-existing conditions to prevent Americans from being covered. It will halt denial of care for people who have insurance. It will help small businesses protect their employees. This bill creates affordability for the middle class, security for our seniors and takes responsibility for our children. This is truly a wonderful day for all Americans.” The bill will now go to a reconciliation process, to create a hybrid bill between the Senate’s language and H.R. 3962, which passed in the House of Representatives. The mechanism of that reconciliation is not yet confirmed. Once the two bills are melded into one, there will be a final vote on the combined bill in both the House and the Senate. -30-
12.22.2009	Press Release Contact:Paul Kincaid202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Vice Admiral Papp nominated as President Obama’s choice to succeed Allen. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) Tuesday congratulated VADM Robert J. Papp Jr., President Obama’s choice to become the next Commandant of the United States Coast Guard. Papp would replace Admiral Thad Allen as the 24th Commandant of the Coast Guard in May of 2010, if he is confirmed by the Senate. Cummings, in his role as Chairman of the House Subcommittee on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, congratulated Papp and said he looked forward to helping him continue to move the Coast Guard into the future. “Admiral Allen and I had a great working relationship,” said Cummings. “I look forward to having a similar relationship with Vice Admiral Papp. This is an important time for the agency tasked with protecting our nation’s coasts and waterways. Admiral Papp is a decisive leader and an outstanding choice to succeed Admiral Allen.” Papp will be in charge of roughly 42,000 Coast Guardsmen and women, as well as more than 7,000 civilian employees. He currently serves as Commander of the Coast Guard Atlantic Area (LANTAREA) and Defense Force East. Prior to assuming command of LANTAREA, he served at the Chief of Staff of the Coast Guard in Washington. Papp graduated from the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and holds a master’s in national security and strategic studies from the U.S. Naval War College and a master’s in management from Salve Regina College. -30- ###
12.16.2009	Cummings Urges Hearing On For-Profit College Malfeasance Investigation of colleges needed following exposé on University of Phoenix admissions allegedly lying to prospective students. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) recently authored a letter to Chairman Edolphus Towns of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and Chairman George Miller, of the House Committee on Education and Labor, requesting that they hold hearings on the conduct of for-profit educational institutions in the United States. The request followed an exposé published recently in ProPublica. The article indicated that the University of Phoenix has set aside $80 million to settle a whistleblower lawsuit alleging improprieties by recruiters and recruiting managers to draw students to the for-profit institution. It was alleged that University of Phoenix admissions representatives lied to prospective students on multiple issues, particularly regarding potential financial aid, transferring University of Phoenix credits, and course availability. They also allegedly failed to acknowledge that students’ stated interests were not offered as courses of study. “The pattern of behavior reported is disheartening at best, and infuriating at worst,” said Cummings. “At a time when our economy has afforded no luxuries to America’s working classes, to find that for-profit institutions allegedly drew students in with disingenuous claims and sometimes outright fabrication, subjected them to onerous loans, and left them often unusable “credits”, is inexcusable.” Cummings urges both Chairmen to, “review the articles and consider conducting hearings. . . to shine a light on the for-profit education industry and provide the American people with a clear picture of the true costs of education.” -30- ###
12.14.2009	“Bridge Loans” allow quicker relief for homeowners who are both unemployed and “underwater.” (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today wrote Shaun Donovan, Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to encourage him to work with Treasury Secretary Geithner during the upcoming White House economic summit, to find new ways to deal with the staggering number of foreclosures in America. Foreclosures in October topped 300,000 nationwide, the eighth month in a row that amount has been breached. Treasury Secretary Geithner reminded Congress last week that the Administration’s mortgage modification efforts have helped over 600,000 homeowners avoid foreclosure, accounting for nearly half of the total number of homeowners eligible for these programs. However, millions of homeowners whose only “mistake” was losing their jobs, through no fault of their own, are still at risk of losing their homes. Recently, the Wall Street Journal reported that 10.7 million Americans, 23 percent of homeowners nationally, have negative equity in their homes. “I encourage you, Secretary Geithner, and the President to consider alternative policy initiatives that provide relief to homeowners who are ineligible for current modification programs,” the letter from Congressman Cummings reads, in part. “As I have mentioned before, the bridge loan concept presents an opportunity to provide immediate targeted relief to this constituency. Whether through grants or loans, the funding goes to the borrower (or the mortgage company directly), providing immediate relief against a pending delinquency or default.” The letter also notes that Congressman Cummings, Congressmen Barney Frank and Chaka Fattah, as well as Senator Jack Reed, have introduced legislation in Congress to enable and implement different variations of the bridge loan concept. Both Maryland and Pennsylvania have both implemented similar temporary low interest loan programs to keep their citizens in their homes - the Maryland Bridge to Hope Program and Pennsylvania Homeowners’ Emergency Mortgage Assistance Program.
12.10.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 10, 2009 < Cummings Responds To Changes In Executive Compensation Cummings Responds To Changes In Executive CompensationPublic outcry results in alteration of Goldman Sachs compensation plans. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) was pleased, but remained concerned, today, after published reports indicated Goldman Sachs will alter the way the 30 top executives at that company are paid. Goldman Sachs said Thursday that they will give bonuses to their executive committee in restricted stock, which cannot be cashed in for five years. Cummings was happy that corporations are showing concern for public opinion, which has been almost universally against massive bonuses. However, he realizes that there will be no change in the economic conditions that led to the largest economic downturn since the Great Depression until the culture at Wall Street firms, like Goldman Sachs, changes. “Goldman has made an effort,” said Cummings. “But nothing is being done to stop the culture of excessive risk taking. This compensation change is being made to look good on TV. But, until incentives change for traders, and the companies they work for, encouraging them to work toward long-term gains and make wise decisions, rather than short-term money grabs, we are going to be in danger of situations like Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, and AIG happening again and again. I am pleased that companies are listening to Secretary Geithner and the other experts who have explained what caused our economic problems and how to stop them from happening again. I just hope they will actually start making use of that information, looking at long-term goals when setting compensation not merely making short-term changes to please the public.” -30- ###
12.10.2009	Cummings Requests Stricter Scrutiny of FHA Investigation Criteria For Lending Institutions Congressman’s request comes after FHA shut down a Baltimore area lending institution found to be charging minority customers excessive fees. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) announced Thursday that he had sent a letter to Federal Housing Administration Assistant Secretary David H. Stevens, asking that he improve the procedures used to scrutinize lending institutions for fraudulent, abusive and predatory lending practices. This request was made following Baltimore-area lender Equitable Trust Mortgage Corp. (ETM) being suspended by the FHA from writing new FHA-insured mortgages. ETM was found to be charging excessive broker and origination fees, with many of these overcharges coming in transactions involving minority borrowers. Currently, lending institutions are examined, by FHA, for various “risk factors,” including default and claim rates, volume of mortgages originated, and types of mortgages being written. Based on testimony given during House Oversight and Government Reform committee hearings, Congressman Cummings believes there is a need for additional protections in minority and low-income communities. Congressman Cummings’ letter asks that, “…risk factors be adjusted to reflect consideration of the median income, as well as the level of minority representation in the area where the lender is operating.” He also requests a report on the number of compliance reviews conducted, on site, by HUD from 2007 to 2009, with information in each review to include median income and racial makeup of the affected communities, as well as other data. “More than fifty percent of foreclosures involve Black households,” said Cummings. “These are not isolated numbers. Our minority communities were taken advantage of, and the ETM suspension shows that practice continues to this day. If we are going to have a full American economic recovery, we cannot allow recovery efforts to treat communities hit the hardest exactly the same as those that were only slightly affected. Predatory and abusive lending devastated many black communities and we must make sure that never happens again.” A study by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy showed that black and Hispanic borrowers were targets of subprime lenders. A New York Times study showed that Blacks and Hispanics were two to three times more likely than white borrowers to have a subprime loan. ###
12.10.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 10, 2009 Cummings Announces Federal Funding For District Projects Nearly $70,000,000 in Federal funding will help improve the Old Line State. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) is pleased to announce several projects scheduled to receive federal funding, thanks to H.R. 3288, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, and other appropriations approved this year. Cummings worked with other members of the Maryland Congressional and Senatorial delegation to fund projects throughout the 7th District, improving schools, healthcare, infrastructure and other areas. H.R. 3288 is a so-called “mini-bus” (miniature omnibus) bill, which combines the Commerce-Justice-Science, Financial Services, Labor-HHS-Education, Military Construction-VA, State-Foreign Operations and Transportation-HUD appropriations measures into one bill. Included in appropriations this year, including H.R. 3288 is: Transportation and Housing $487,000 for Howard County, to rehabilitate and purchase equipment for community and wellness rooms in an elderly housing community. $800,000 for improvements to intersections around State Center in Baltimore. $3,000,000 to help construct the Red Line in Baltimore. $492,200 for construction, renovation and equipment at the Maryland Food Bank. $50,000,000 to develop intercity high-speed rail in the Northeast Corridor, which stretches from Washington, DC to Boston, MA, including Baltimore, MD. Critically, this legislation authorizes an Environmental Impact Statement for high-speed rail improvements in the NEC—the first step towards the development of high-speed rail infrastructure. [if !supportLineBreakNewLine] [endif] Commerce-Justice-Science $200,000 for an oyster hatchery pilot program at Morgan State University. $1,500,000 to upgrade Baltimore County’s 9-1-1 Communications Center. $500,000 for a re-entry employment center in Baltimore City. $500,000 for the Jericho Workforce Development Initiative, to help train ex-offenders. $200,000 for the Maryland Civic Justice Corps, part of the Department of Juvenile Services. Morgan State, Maryland-Eastern Shore and Bowie State will also receive $3,000,000, for the Chesapeake Information Based Aeronautics Consortium. Congressman Cummings worked with Rep. Ruppersberger and Rep. Meek of Florida, along with Senator Landrieu of Louisiana, to send $100,000 to the Thurgood Marshall College Fund’s Minority Science Initiative. Labor-Health and Human Services and Education $500,000 for Baltimore City Schools to establish alternative education programs for academically-challenged students, including purchasing equipment and technology. $200,000 for Morgan State University, for a program to understand the impact of health disparities on the health of urban and underserved populations. $1,200,000 for the State of Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, to fund a campaign for oral health education. $1,000,000 for Howard Community College in Columbia, for facilities and equipment for healthcare workforce training. Financial Services and General Government $350,000 for Baltimore City Schools Career and Technology Pathways program. $100,000 for University of Maryland at Baltimore’s BioPark. Agriculture $439,000 provided for Agroecology for study of the Chesapeake Bay. Energy and Water Development $314,000 for work on Mid-Chesapeake Bay Island by the Army Corps of Engineers. $8,078,000 for Army Corps of Engineers construction on Poplar Island. $17,500,000 for dredging of the Baltimore Harbor and Channels by the Army Corps of Engineers. [if !supportLineBreakNewLine] [endif] $26,980,000 for work by the Army Corps of Engineers on the Intracoastal Waterway, from the Delaware River to the Chesapeake Bay. $500,000 for the Center for Nanomedicine and Cellular Delivery. Interior and Environment $500,000 for the Star Spangled Banner National Historic Trail. $150,000 for the Baltimore Urban Forestry Watershed Demonstration Cooperative Project. $500,000 for a Coastal plain and fractured rock study.
12.09.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 9, 2009 < Cummings Pushes for Loans To Protect Americans In Danger of Foreclosure Cummings Pushes for Loans To Protect Americans In Danger of ForeclosureBridge loans would enable thousands of American families to stay in their homes. (Washington, DC) – Efforts by Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) to provide hope for American families threatened with foreclosure have proven fruitful. Legislation in the manager’s amendment to H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009, would amend that bill to provide $3 billion from TARP to be used to create “bridge loans” for Americans who have lost their jobs and are in danger of foreclosure. H.R. 4173 is scheduled for a final vote this week. The proposed loans would be temporary, low-interest loans, facilitated through The Department of Housing and Urban Development for foreclosure assistance for the unemployed. The legislation is partially as a result of a letter Congressman Cummings sent to HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan in November. Cummings’ letter said in part, “…We must find a way to assist those who have fallen victim to circumstances beyond their control. There are untapped viable policy options, and I wholeheartedly encourage you to not close the door on any mechanism that may allow an economic recovery for all Americans.” Congressman Cummings is pleased Maryland residents and Americans throughout the nation, could finally have a way of emerging from the danger of losing their American dream. “Nothing matters more than the fact that we are giving families hope that they won’t lose their homes,” said Cummings. “There is nothing more devastating, financially, than having a home and the stability it brings, then having that stability ripped away. Our national economy is showing signs of recovering, but for millions of people, who lost their jobs through no fault of their own, and then lost their homes, recovery will be excruciatingly slow. These loans would help minimize future foreclosures and protect American homeowners.” A recent study by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston found a 1 percent increase in the unemployment rate increases the probability of a 90-day mortgage payment delinquency by 10-20 percent. -30- ###
12.09.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 9, 2009 Cummings Honored With Lifetime Achievement Award Award recognizes Congressman’s commitment to oral and craniofacial research. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) is proud to be honored Wednesday with a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Friends of the National Institute of the Dental and Craniofacial Research. The award is given to public officials who demonstrate a dedication to “fostering the importance of oral and craniofacial research to leading healthy lives.” Congressman Cummings is a member of the Oral Health Caucus and has consistently fought for dental coverage to be included in any comprehensive healthcare reform legislation. Part of his motivation comes from the death in 2007 of 12-year-old Deamonte Driver of Maryland. Deamonte died when an infection from a toothache spread to his brain. “I have seen the pain and suffering created by oral health issues,” said Cummings. “Deamonte’s death was a message that should never have been needed, about the importance of oral health parity in our healthcare system. I am proud to accept this award, and I hope that I can continue working with FNIDCR to help Americans understand how important oral health is in their lives.” Past winners of the Lifetime Achievement Award include Dr. C. Everett Koop, Representative Steny Hoyer and Senator Jeff Bingman.
12.08.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 8, 2009 < Cummings Supports Obama Plan To Increase Job Creation Cummings Supports Obama Plan To Increase Job CreationPresident encourages wide range of measures to create job growth ahead of normal lag. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today supported efforts discussed by President Obama in a speech at The Brookings Institution, geared toward putting Americans back to work. The President suggested a broad-based strategy for increasing employment, including lowering taxes on small business, investing in infrastructure improvements, encouraging the retrofitting of American homes and buildings, and increasing small business loans for businesses that are having problems finding credit. All of these efforts would be funded in part by TARP and other funds. Recent reports from the Treasury Department indicate that much of the TARP money spent to stabilize banks will be returned to the Federal government. Many loans will be returned with interest. “We used taxpayer money, at a time it was badly needed, to stabilize Wall Street,” said Cummings. “Now, the Americans most in need are those in my district in Baltimore City and on Main Streets all over the country. Why should taxpayer money not go to help everyday taxpayers? Production is rising, the stock market is recovering and job losses have almost stopped. However, thousands of Americans are still in danger of losing their homes, through no fault of their own. Small businesses, the engines of our economy, are unable to get capital to expand, stopping Americans from getting back to work. I stand with the President in his efforts, because we can do better.” Both President Obama and Congressman Cummings have frequently noted that post-recession job growth lags behind other economic growth. Both also agree that Americans, because of mortgages and other concerns, cannot wait for those jobs to return. -30- ###
12.04.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 4, 2009 < Cummings Cautiously Optimistic About November Job Figures Cummings Cautiously Optimistic About November Job Figures Congressman knows, while Americans are still losing jobs, the end of job losses appears to be in sight. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today expressed cautious optimism that the worst of American job losses could be nearly over. Cummings, a member of the Joint Economic Committee, made the remarks after reading the report on November unemployment figures released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). The report showed that 11,000 jobs were lost in November. Most economists predicted a loss of 130,000 jobs or more. “Americans are still losing their jobs,” said Cummings. “I will not be happy until that is not the case. We are recovering, but we must put our men and women back to work. However, I am encouraged by the report indicating that the unemployment rate in November fell to 10 percent, and that we lost fewer jobs in November than in any month since the recession began in 2007. “Today’s report verifies that unprecedented efforts undertaken by the Obama Administration and the Congress, including the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, are working to save and create jobs, support economic recovery and improve economic conditions in the country; faster than if Congress had done nothing. I know that these efforts will lead private industry to expand hiring and support renewed growth. “There are still 15.4 million unemployed Americans – more than double the number of unemployed two years ago. Furthermore, unemployment among minorities remains significantly higher than the national rate – clearly showing the disproportionate impact that the recession has had on communities of color. We must remember this as we continue to fight to create American jobs and lead our economic recovery. We have to make sure that our recovery helps all Americans recover.” -30- ###
12.03.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 3, 2009 Cummings Honored With Award For Fighting Drunk Driving Award recognizes Congressman’s commitment to safer streets as well as stopping underage drinking. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) is proud today to receive an award from The Century Council, recognizing his commitment to fighting drunk driving and underage drinking. Congressman Cummings is one of 21 Representatives who will be so honored. The award will be presented Friday morning by former Congresswoman Susan Molinari on behalf of The Century Council along with Brandy Nannini, VP of Government Affairs for the Council. Congressman Cummings is a leader in the fight against drunk driving and underage drinking. In May of 2009, he hosted The Century Council’s Brandon Tells His Story initiative at Edmondson-Westside High School in Baltimore, MD. The initiative features Brandon Silveria, a young man who was involved in an alcohol-related crash at age 17 just before his high school prom. Brandon and his father Tony spoke to students about the importance of “making the right choice” about alcohol. The Century Council is a national not-for-profit organization, funded by distillers. Through legislation, education, and public awareness campaigns, The Century Council promotes responsible decision-making, focusing on drunk driving and underage drinking. Since 1991, The Century Council has invested more than $175 million in its programs. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Association, there were 11,773 alcohol-impaired traffic fatalities in 2008, with 5,174 of them being persons between the ages of 12 and 20. Understanding the scope of this national epidemic, this year’s award recipients joined The Century Council to help educate youth and their parents from middle school through college-aged students about responsible decision-making concerning beverage alcohol.
12.02.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 2, 2009 < Cummings Supports President Obama’s Decision on Afghanistan p {mso-margin-top-alt:auto; margin-right:0in; mso-margin-bottom-alt:auto; margin-left:0in; Cummings Supports President Obama’s Decision on Afghanistan Increase in U.S. troops in Afghanistan will be used to train Afghan forces.[if !supportLineBreakNewLine] [endif] (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) reacted this evening to the decision by President Obama to commit more than 30,000 American troops to Afghanistan, while creating the goal of stabilizing that nation and its self-defense forces, prior to U.S. and NATO withdrawal, which President Obama has planned for July 2011. President Obama said he hoped the rapid deployment of more Americans into the theatre will encourage the Afghan government to increase its commitment at the same pace. This strategy has, as its goal, the destruction of Al Qaeda, eliminating their ability to reform, and renewing a relationship with Pakistan to slow the growth and training of terrorism in that country. “The men who attacked this nation on September 11th were trained in Afghanistan, and it was from Afghanistan that planners of that attack escaped,” said Cummings. “During his campaign for President, I supported President Obama when he said we must concentrate on Afghanistan as the primary front in our war on terror. President Obama is keeping his word. He is committed to striking Al Qaeda, supporting the Karzai government and working with Pakistan to destroy terrorist cells on the border between that nation and Afghanistan. I understand that we must fight, and we must finish this job. Like so many Americans, I grow weary of constant war; I mourn the dead, and pray for our injured fighting men and women; and I know we must control spending in this nation, including defense spending. President Obama has set a time for the end of our commitment to nation building in Afghanistan. When the time comes, our troops must return home as the heroes they are, to the families who miss them and the country that will need their leadership as we build a new America.” -30- ###
12.02.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEDecember 2, 2009 Cummings Congratulates RADM Stosz On Promotion Ellicott City woman is first female Admiral in Coast Guard history who is also a USCG Academy graduate. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) offered his congratulations this week to United States Coast Guard Rear Admiral (lower half) Sandy Stosz, on the occasion of her promotion to that rank. Stosz, who is from Ellicott City, in the Seventh District, is the first female graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy to be selected for promotion to flag rank. As the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, Congressman Cummings took particular pride in the promotion of RADM Stosz. “This is a wonderful time for Sandy Stosz and her family,” said Congressman Cummings. “Other women have excelled in service to our nation and have attained a flag officer rank. However, the fact that 73 percent of Coast Guard flag officers attended the Academy shows that it can be an important first step in an illustrious career. As we make efforts to increase diversity at the Academy, Admiral Stosz will stand as a shining example of the success that can be achieved when the Academy pursues those who may have believed attending was a dream beyond their grasp.” Other female Coast Guard officers have been promoted to Rear Admiral and beyond, but none graduated from the Coast Guard Academy, which did not accept female candidates until United States service academies began to admit female students in 1976. RADM Stosz entered the Academy two years later, graduating in the Class of 1982. During her tenure on the water, RADM Stosz commanded two Coast Guard vessels. RADM Stosz is now the Director of Enterprise Strategy, Management and Doctrine Oversight at U.S. Coast Guard headquarters in Washington.
11.29.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 29, 2009 < Cummings Applauds Obama Administration Moves Encouraging Mortgage Reductions By Private Banks Cummings Applauds Obama Administration Moves Encouraging Mortgage Reductions By Private Banks Congressman believes Americans staying in their homes is as critical as bailing out Wall Street.[if !supportLineBreakNewLine] [endif] (Washington, DC) – Following a letter sent Tuesday, requesting increased efforts by HUD toward keeping Americans in their homes, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) is pleased and hopeful with news reports indicating the U.S. Treasury will step up efforts aimed at encouraging private banks to help homeowners who are “underwater” or behind in mortgage payments. Reports last week indicated that one in every four homeowners is underwater; owing more on a mortgage than their home is worth. Media reports Saturday indicated that Obama Administration officials will “announce a campaign to pressure mortgage companies to reduce payments for many more troubled homeowners,” on Monday. The government will use shame as a motivator, naming the names of lenders that move too slowly to permanently lower mortgage payments. Also, the Treasury will hold off on paying cash incentives until reductions are out of trial periods, and are permanent. Lenders are reducing payments for borrowers more frequently but most modified loans are only trial modifications, lasting five months or less. Only a few modifications are currently permanent. Congressman Cummings applauds the Administration decision. “This is not a one-step recovery,” said Cummings. “It’s not just about Wall Street. Taxpayers provided funding for lenders and banks in their time of need. To ignore those taxpayers in similar straits is despicable. Corporations created this downturn by taking massive, unsustainable risks. Most Americans in danger of losing their homes are in danger not because of risks they took, but because they lost a job through no fault of their own. Recovery will be faster in coming if those American families concentrate on getting back to work, not worrying about where they will sleep at night. This is not a time for those who needed a bailout to turn their back on the American taxpayers who provided it.” Last Tuesday, Congressman Cummings sent a letter to Shaun Donovan, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. It requested that Secretary Donovan and his staff seek as many ways as possible to keep Americans in their homes, particularly recommending bridge loans. The letter read in part, “…the bridge loan concept presents an opportunity to provide immediate targeted relief to this constituency. Whether through grants or loans, the funding goes to the borrower (or the mortgage company directly), providing immediate relief against a pending delinquency or default.” Also, at a recent Joint Economic Committee hearing, speaking with Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, Congressman Cummings asked, “…Banks have not staffed up quickly enough, so when people try to take advantage of the programs created, they’re not getting answers. They’re not getting anyone on the phones. …What can we do to keep our constituents in their houses?” Geithner discussed the 600,000 American homeowners taking part in mortgage modification programs, but acknowledged staffing at most banks and lending institutions as completely unacceptable. He detailed Treasury measurements allowing the Department to find out which banks are servicing the largest percentage of eligible customers and which institutions are falling behind. Cummings said Sunday morning that he is pleased with work done by Geithner, Donovan and other Administration officials. He also said that he intends to continue the fight to ensure that American taxpayers are not funding Wall Street excess while they are being ejected from their homes, and while their American Dreams are put on hold. -30- ###
11.24.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 24, 2009 < Cummings Encourages HUD To Seek Further Foreclosure Relief [if gte mso 9]> Cummings Encourages HUD To Seek Further Foreclosure Relief “Bridge Loans” allow quicker relief for homeowners who are both unemployed and “underwater.” (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) today wrote Shaun Donovan, Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to encourage him to work with Treasury Secretary Geithner during the upcoming White House economic summit, to find new ways to deal with the staggering number of foreclosures in America. Foreclosures in October topped 300,000 nationwide, the eighth month in a row that amount has been breached. Treasury Secretary Geithner reminded Congress last week that the Administration’s mortgage modification efforts have helped over 600,000 homeowners avoid foreclosure, accounting for nearly half of the total number of homeowners eligible for these programs. However, millions of homeowners whose only “mistake” was losing their jobs, through no fault of their own, are still at risk of losing their homes. Recently, the Wall Street Journal reported that 10.7 million Americans, 23 percent of homeowners nationally, have negative equity in their homes. “I encourage you, Secretary Geithner, and the President to consider alternative policy initiatives that provide relief to homeowners who are ineligible for current modification programs,” the letter from Congressman Cummings reads, in part. “As I have mentioned before, the bridge loan concept presents an opportunity to provide immediate targeted relief to this constituency. Whether through grants or loans, the funding goes to the borrower (or the mortgage company directly), providing immediate relief against a pending delinquency or default.” The letter also notes that Congressman Cummings, Congressmen Barney Frank and Chaka Fattah, as well as Senator Jack Reed, have introduced legislation in Congress to enable and implement different variations of the bridge loan concept. Both Maryland and Pennsylvania have both implemented similar temporary low interest loan programs to keep their citizens in their homes - the Maryland Bridge to Hope Program and Pennsylvania Homeowners’ Emergency Mortgage Assistance Program. -30- ###
11.20.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 20, 2009 < Cummings Asks Government, Private Insurance Options To Retain Coverage For Mammograms [if gte mso 9]> Cummings Asks Government, Private Insurance Options To Retain Coverage For Mammograms Congressman does not want recent study to result in less coverage for breast cancer screenings. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, (MD-07) will hold a press conference to Monday, November 23 at 11:00 a.m., at Mercy Medical Center in Baltimore, to discuss the importance of women getting screened and maintaining vigilance against the potential onset of breast cancer. This press conference after a recent report, by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, made recommendations on when mammography is most effective for women, and when tests may do more harm than good. Misunderstandings have arisen, due in part to media coverage of the report that paints it as a blanket dismissal of the importance of breast cancer screening. In advance of that press conference, Congressman Cummings sent letters to John Berry, Director of the Office of Personnel Management and to Karen Ignagni, President and CEO of America’s Health Insurance Plans. Both letters essentially asked for the same thing, the continuation of mammogram coverage starting at age 40. Congressman Cummings urged Mr. Berry to, “continue requiring government insurance programs to offer routine mammograms to women, beginning at age 40.” To Ms. Ignagni, whose organization represents hundreds of private insurers, Congressman Cummings wrote, “I commend [private insurance companies that cover mammograms] for the seriousness with which they take breast cancer prevention. I would urge all of your member companies to continue with their current breast cancer screening coverage.” The letters to both Mr. Berry and Ms. Ignagni also read in part, “Preventive care can be a key to creating a healthier, more prosperous America. We must not allow confusion surrounding the recommendations of the USPSTF to prevent women from speaking with their physicians or obtaining beneficial preventative screenings, which can be the most effective course to ensuring one’s well-being.” “There is no report, no study, and no research, which will help an individual woman understand her potential health risks better than her personal doctor,” said Congressman Cummings. “It is crucial that women consult with their physicians, create an individual plan for their healthcare, including screening, and that they take every step needed to maintain that plan.” -30- ###
11.18.2009	[if gte mso 9]> Cummings Heralds Improvement Of Baltimore Infrastructure Railway bridges in Baltimore will be repaired by CSX with Federal funding assistance provided in part by Congressman. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah Cummings was pleased Wednesday with the announcement by the Baltimore City Board of Estimates that they had approved a final agreement to rebuild the Fort Avenue and Sinclair Lane bridges over CSX railroad tracks. The agreement, which has been in the works for several years, will use a formula reached in October 2007 to repair both bridges. CSX will pay 75 percent of the construction costs and 100 percent of the engineering costs on the Fort Avenue bridge. The Sinclair Lane bridge will be paid in the same percentages, after the first $2.3 million is funded through Federal funds secured by Congressman Cummings. Both bridges, which allow cars to pass over CSX tracks, have been deemed structurally deficient due to their advanced level of deterioration. “The importance of maintaining our infrastructure cannot be overstated,” said Cummings. “I am very happy to have played even a small part in securing the repair of these bridges, avoiding the tragedy that any failure could bring and ensuring continued mobility in these communities.” Baltimore City Government announced that construction will begin on the Sinclair Lane bridge in the spring of 2010; work on the Fort Avenue bridge is scheduled for the winter of 2011. [if !supportLineBreakNewLine] [endif] ###
11.18.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 18, 2009 Cummings Pens Letter Encouraging Federal Reserve Transparency Congressman asks Chairmen of Senate Banking and House Financial Services Committees to regulate, audit the Fed. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah Cummings, along with other House Members, sent a letter to House Financial Services Committee Chair Barney Frank and Senate Banking Committee Chair Chris Dodd on Wednesday, following the release of a report by SIGTARP questioning transparency and accountability at the Federal Reserve. The letter requests, “a comprehensive Congressional review of the Federal Reserve System and an exploration of possible changes in its governance model. More immediately, a complete and public audit of the system should be made part of the regulatory reform bills currently moving through your committees.” The letter was signed by Cummings, Rep. John Tierney, Rep. Lloyd Doggett, Rep. Maurice Hinchey, Rep. Alan Grayson, Rep. Peter Welch and Rep. Tim Walz. Cummings has supported past calls for audits of the Federal Reserve and will continue to do so. The report prompting the letter, issued by SIGTARP Neil Barofsky, concerned payments made by AIG, after that organization was rescued by the Treasury and the Federal Reserve. AIG made payments to “counterparties” who were owed funds by the company, following various transactions. These claims were paid to improve liquidity at AIG, taking them away from the brink of failure. Claims were paid at near 100 percent of face value, including swap-related claims. The SIGTARP report revealed payments made after ineffective efforts by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, on behalf of AIG, to negotiate “haircuts”; payments made at a lower level than promised. One company, UBS, agreed to these “haircuts,” with the understanding that other counterparties would do the same. Those companies refused, thus all companies were paid full value on their transactions. SIGTARP questioned the effectiveness of the Federal Reserve, as well as the steps they took to avoid transparency and accountability during investigation of the payments. “Before this audit, the Federal Reserve said taxpayers should not be able to follow their money, because it would harm the market,” said Cummings. “With this report, Mr. Barofsky has proven that to be categorically untrue. Congress received answers to some basic questions, and in Mr. Barofsky’s words, “the sky did not fall.” This is another case of the Fed operating beyond acceptable oversight and further proof that oversight, transparency and accountability must, again in the words of Mr. Barofsky, become our default, not something for which we must beg and plead.” ###
11.17.2009	U.S. House of Representatives 11.9999 Cummings Questions Taxpayer Funding of Merrill Lynch Purchase Congressman calls actions by Bank of America “old-fashioned stick-up” (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah Cummings today investigated, along with other members of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the need for a $20 billion dollar taxpayer-funded handout to Bank of America from TARP. The money was paid to Bank of America when they threatened to pull out of a planned merger with Merrill Lynch, despite a complete lack of legal ability to do so. Bank of America threatened to invoke a “Material Adverse Condition (MAC),” which would have allowed them to back out of the deal. However, most legal advisers believed that invoking the MAC would’ve been legally nearly impossible. “The MAC wasn’t a real threat,” said Cummings. “Merrill Lynch was not just an acquisition for Mr. [Bank of America CEO Ken] Lewis. It was a trophy. When the deal could be sweetened with government cash, what harm could they have thought there was in an empty threat like a MAC? It was heads, I win; tails, I win huge. While I already asked the SEC to investigate BOA for using taxpayer funds to settle its SEC case, I am equally concerned about what is before this committee. To me, it seems to be nothing more than an old-fashioned stick-up.” Cummings and other members of the Committee questioned Brian Moynihan, President of Consumer and Small Business Banking, Bank of America; Timothy J. Mayopoulos, Former General Counsel of Bank of America; Charles "Chad" Gifford, Member of the Bank of America Board of Directors; and Thomas J. May, Member of the Bank of America Board of Directors. ###
11.13.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE [if gte mso 9]> U.S. House of Representatives 11.9999 November 13, 2009 < Cummings Reacts To SIGTARP Audit Findings U.S. House of Representatives 11.9999 Cummings Reacts To SIGTARP Audit Findings Report, regarding AIG Counterparties, reveals payments “at par” were made after companies refused to negotiate. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah Cummings reacted Tuesday to a report issued by SIGTARP Neil Barofsky, regarding payments made by AIG, after that organization was rescued via payments from Treasury and the Federal Reserve. AIG made payments to “counterparties” who were owed funds by the company, following various transactions. These claims were paid to improve liquidity at AIG, taking them away from the brink of failure. Claims were paid at near 100 percent of face value, including swap-related claims. The SIGTARP report reveals that counterparty payments were made after efforts were made by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, on behalf of AIG, to negotiate “haircuts”; payments made at a lower level than promised. One company, UBS, agreed to these “haircuts,” with the understanding that other counterparties would do the same. Those companies refused, thus all companies were paid full value on their transactions. Cummings was pleased with the work done by the SIGTARP staff, but frustrated with results they revealed. “Before this audit, the Federal Reserve said taxpayers should not be able to follow their money, because it would harm the market,” said Cummings. “With this report, Mr. Barofsky has proven that to be categorically untrue. Congress received answers to some basic questions, and in Mr. Barofsky’s words, “the sky did not fall.” This is another case of the Fed operating beyond acceptable oversight and further proof that oversight, transparency and accountability must, again in the words of Mr. Barofsky, become our default, not something for which we must beg and plead.” The SIGTARP report was the result of an audit requested in late March by Cummings and 26 other Members. Their letter requested the audit because, “We [wanted] to know if the AIG counterparty payments, as made, were in the best interests of the taxpayers who provided the funding and in the best interests of re-establishing long-term economic stability.” The overarching statement made by results of the audit do not find fault in any particular entity, but do show a disappointing reluctance on the part of Federal Reserve officials to negotiate haircuts for the taxpayers, and a massive lack of transparency and accountability from all parties involved in the transaction. To address these issues in future cases, Congressman Cummings stresses that any economic reform taken up by the Congress include transparency and accountability for the American taxpayer, in any business in which those taxpayers have equity. Congressman Cummings is also reaffirming his call to audit the Federal Reserve. Cummings is a co-sponsor of Rep. Kucinich’s Federal Reserve Credit Facility Review Act of 2009 (H.R. 2424), and supports ongoing efforts in the House and Senate to provide for such an audit ###
11.10.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 10, 2009 Tragedy at Fort Hood, Veteran’s Day, place spotlight on those in military service.(Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today reminded those in the Seventh Congressional District, and those throughout Maryland and the nation to honor and remember the service to our nation given by so many, during Veteran’s Day, tomorrow. “Both the tragic possibility of making the ultimate sacrifice, and the incredible opportunity to make an impact on our nation are rarely as great as when serving our country in the military,” said Cummings. “One lone Private can perform feats so noble as to be awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor; one Coast Guard sailor can snatch a life from the jaws of death to precious safety; one Marine can give his life to protect people in a faraway land; one Midshipman can study at the Naval Academy and in Bethesda, becoming the scientist who cures cancer; and one Airman can become the next astronaut to continue our exploration of the galaxy. We owe our everlasting freedom to those who have served, and died, before, and our thank to those who continue to take up the mantle in service to our flag. Tomorrow, we will remember them, but on every other day of the year, we must never forget.” More than 1.4 million men and women serve in our nation’s Armed Forces, including more than 280,000 who are currently in active combat in both Iraq and Afghanistan. More than 900,000 have died during their service to the United States. They are all remembered each year on Veteran’s Day, November 11th, which was created as Armistice Day in 1919 by President Woodrow Wilson. The date was the symbolic end of World War I, which had been called “The War to End All Wars.” -30- ###
11.09.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 9, 2009 Cummings: Senate Should Give Healthcare Reform Up-or-Down VoteCongressman asks that Senators not obstruct progress of bill that would provide coverage for 96 percent of Americans. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings commented on the passage of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. The bill passed the House on Saturday night by a final tally of 220-215. Cummings said he was pleased to vote for passage of this historic bill and to have 219 colleagues joining him in helping provide the opportunity for 36 million uninsured Americans to get quality, affordable healthcare. However, Cummings also knows the next step is critical: moving the bill proposed in the United States Senate to a majority-rules, up-or-down vote on the floor of the Senate. “We’re going to do everything we can do to press very, very hard on the Senate to do whatever they have to do to bring cloture and then vote up or down,” said Cummings, “The American people deserve that. There are too many people in our country who are suffering and we can do better. They can get it done. They need to sit down, talk to each other, work this thing out, so we can get into conference and see if we can come up with a decent piece of legislation to send to the President. The American people play a major role in this. They need to get on the phone and call their Senators and say, ‘We want an up or down vote on this legislation, so that we can have healthcare in our country.’” Congressman Cummings believes that the filibuster in the Senate is a simple case of obstruction, similar to that faced by other filibustered legislation, such as the 1957 and 1964 Civil Rights Acts. -30-
11.07.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 7, 2009 < Cummings Proud To Vote For American Healthcare Reform Cummings Proud To Vote For American Healthcare ReformCongressman casts yea vote on legislation that will cover 96 percent of Americans. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings cast his vote Saturday, in favor of H.R. 3962, the ‘‘Affordable Health Care for America Act’’. The bill, which passed the House of Representatives XX-XX will now move to the United States Senate for consideration. Legislation created by the bill will improve employer-based coverage for 403,000 Marylanders, will cover 44,000 Maryland residents who lack insurance and will provide 147,000 Maryland families with “affordability credits” to help them afford insurance. It also improves Medicare for 90,000 beneficiaries in Maryland, including beginning closure of the prescription drug “doughnut hole” for 4,700 Maryland seniors. On the financial front, this legislation will protect 900 Maryland families from joining the estimated one million nationally who declare bankruptcy due to medical costs. “I am incredibly proud to have voted for the future of the American people,” said Rep. Cummings. “Our children are the message we sent to a future we will never see, and this legislation is a message to our children. We will keep Americans healthy. We will make sure that all Americans, including those children can access quality, affordable healthcare, because we know that without -30-
11.06.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASENovember 6, 2009 Cummings Requests Appropriate Reviews In Baltimore Firefighter DeathCongressman sent letter Thursday morning to Baltimore City F.D. and Department of Justice. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings Thursday sent letters to the United States Department of Justice and the Baltimore City Fire Department. He requested that the Fire Department immediately provide the documents needed by DOJ to expedite the review of an appeal in the benefit request of the family of Firefighter Cadet Racheal Wilson. Congressman Cummings also asked that the DOJ expedite that appeal. “The death of any public servant, in the line of duty, or in training is a tragedy,” said Congressman Cummings. “As with anyone who makes the ultimate sacrifice in their quest to serve the public good, it is critical that we show the respect we have, for Cadet Wilson, to her family in the time of their great loss. This injustice must be rectified and I am committed to seeing that accomplished.” Cummings’ letter to Baltimore City Fire Chief James Clack requested that BCFD immediately provide the authorization that allowed Cadet Wilson to fight fires in training, and the description and level of Cadet Wilson’s training at the time of her passing. The letter to DOJ emphasized that BCFD and the President of Firefighters Local 734 are ready to assist the Department in any way during their investigation. Both letters were sent Thursday morning and are available to members of the press upon request. The letters can be requested by emailing paul.kincaid@mail.house.gov.
10.28.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 28, 2009 Cummings Signs On To Congressional Letter Requesting Consumer Protection Letter to Bank of America, Citibank, requests that no-balance fees, high interest rates cease. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings this week added his name to a list of Representatives requesting that Citigroup and Bank of America immediately end their new program of charging fees for credit cardholders who do not maintain a balance on their cards. The letter was written by Congresswoman Betsy Markey and Congresswoman Betty Sutton. It is addressed to Ken Lewis, CEO of Bank of America, and Vikram Pandit, CEO of Citigroup. It was spurred by complaints from constituents throughout the country, regarding unreasonable interest rate hikes prior to recent credit card reforms. The letter read in part, “Bank of America and Citigroup have each received $45 billion in federal bailout funds over the last year. We urge you to consider those consumers, whose tax dollars funded your bailouts, and who dutifully pay their bills on time and are now struggling to make ends meet.” Bank of America had announced they would not increase their credit card interest rates prior to the effective date of the Credit CARD Act. However, it is now being reported that Bank of America will begin charging customers an annual fee for not carrying a balance. Reports also indicate that Citigroup is charging consumers who maintain balances below $2,400. The letter worries that, “Many Americans may choose to cancel their accounts rather than pay additional fees for being responsible customers, which could further destabilize the credit card industry.” “American taxpayers paid to keep these corporations on life support,” said Congressman Cummings. “Now tax money is paying to abuse those same taxpayers. I am sick of the American consumer getting ripped off by companies who were too big to fail, but now are too greedy to understand that Main Street is hurting and their abuses only add to that.” The letter to Bank of America and Citigroup was cosigned by more than 30 Representatives. ###
10.27.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 27, 2009 Cummings Commends SmartGrid Funds To Improve Baltimore New electric grid technology will allow more efficient use of energy, make better use of renwables. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings was pleased to learn of the Federal investment that will be made to improve Maryland’s electrical grid, thanks to President Barack Obama’s commitment to SmartGrid technology. President Obama announced funding for the improvements at an appearance today in Florida. Baltimore Gas and Electric Company will receive the largest grant in the federal investment package to fund Smart Grid technology. BG&E will be awarded $200 million to help fund a $451 million program to install 1.1 million digital meters and 400,000 in-home control devices and thermostats. The program will enable dynamic electricity pricing and expand the utility's direct load control program, which will enhance grid reliability and reduce congestion. “As we create energy independence for Americans, we must upgrade the way we deliver that energy,” said Congressman Cummings. “I am pleased to see that President Obama is not only addressing the way we create electricity, but is improving our grid so that our generated electricity is used more efficiently and effectively.” President Obama, during a visit to a solar energy facility in Arcadia, Fla., announced Tuesday that he is making available $3.4 billion in government support for 100 projects aimed at modernizing the power grid. The projects include installing "smart" electric meters in homes, automating utility substations, and installing thousands of new digital transformers and grid sensors. The $3.4 billion investment is part of the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act, and will be matched by industry funding for a total public-private investment worth over $8 billion. White House officials provided details of the initiative prior to the president's scheduled visit to Florida Power & Light Co.'s DeSoto Next Generation Solar Energy Center, the largest photovoltaic electricity facility in the country.
10.21.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 21, 2009 Cummings Lauds Aggressive Action By Feinberg, Protecting TaxpayersCongressman is pleased with Special Master for Compensation taking wise action, holding executives accountable. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today applauded the efforts of Kenneth Feinberg, the Treasury Department's special master for compensation, as he attempted to hold executives accountable at seven companies saved from economic ruin by taxpayer funding. Mr. Feinberg's ruling lowers compensation for 175 employees at these companies by an average of 50 percent. The highest-paid 25 employees of each company will see cuts, including up to 90 percent on salaries. Mr. Feinberg also demanded major governance changes for the firms, which were given taxpayer aid when it was feared their collapse could irreparably harm the U.S. economy. "Mr. Feinberg has done outstanding job," said Rep. Cummings. "These compensation practices continue to abuse taxpayers with their own money. These companies used every inch of the economic loopholes they found to damage our nation. I encourage, and demand, that Mr. Feinberg continue to exercise every inch of his authority to ensure accountability. He is there for one reason, to protect every last dollar given as corporate welfare, and to stop the abuse by Wall Street fat cats." Rep. Cummings continued, echoing a plea made by millions of Americans who have witnessed the excess of those who received taxpayer-funded bailouts, "This must be a time when we ensure that regulatory reform proposals move swiftly through Congress, protecting Americans from corporate excesses and never again letting corporate greed and wrongdoing hold taxpayers and the economy hostage." Rep. Cummings is a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform committee, and has used this position to hold hearings into multiple instances of abuse of the public trust by corporations involved in the recent economic downturn. ###
10.21.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 21, 2009 Cummings Receives SIGTARP Quarterly Report Report shows continued oversight work to protect taxpayer funds. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings read the third quarterly report from SIGTARP Neil Barofsky this morning with great interest. The report detailed SIGTARP activities to this point, including investigations, audits and criminal cases. “I am pleased with the work done by Mr. Barofsky and his staff,” said Cummings. “The recent controversy, regarding bonuses still being paid by companies who received TARP money, shows the importance of transparency and oversight in our economic recovery.” The next report released by SIGTARP will likely be one based on an audit requested by Cummings and 26 other Members, requesting an investigation into AIG’s counterparty payments. “I look forward to the results of the audit,” said Cummings. “We must hold people accountable for the actions they have taken with taxpayer money. Working with Mr. Barofsky, I intend to do just that.” -30-
10.20.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 20, 2009 Cummings Introduces Bill To Clean Chesapeake Bay HR 3852 creates new pollutant control and accountability program to aid in Bay restoration. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today introduced H.R. 3852, the Chesapeake Clean Water and Ecosystem Restoration Act of 2009. The bill reauthorizes the Chesapeake Bay Program and will amend the Clean Water Act to reduce the amount of pollutants entering the Bay. The bill defines the responsibilities of governments throughout the Bay watershed, at the federal, state and local levels. Though some pollution has been lessened through the application of the Clean Water Act and through voluntary agreements among the watershed states, the new law will improve the study and control of the pollutants that continue to harm the Chesapeake, particularly nitrogen, phosphorous and sediments. It will also create accountability for both polluters and the government agencies working to reduce pollutant levels. “We understand with great clarity what is harming the Bay,” said Cummings at a press conference Monday. “We know the sources of the nitrogen, phosphorus, and sediments that flow into the Bay and we understand how they destroy the Bay’s fragile ecosystem. We also know that controlling and reducing these pollutants is absolutely essential if the Bay is to thrive again.” The bill is co-sponsored by Reps. Connolly, Van Hollen, Sarbanes, Moran (Va.), Edwards, Holmes Norton, Bernice Johnson, Scott and Hoyer. The bill improves the Clean Water Act by providing authority to create, begin, and assess control of ongoing pollution sources, including municipal, agricultural, and industrial sources. Specifically, H.R. 3852: Requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to complete its development of a total maximum daily amount of pollutants that can flow into the Bay; requires states within the Bay’s watershed to design and implement detailed plans outlining the steps that they will take to achieve the required reductions in pollutants; requires states to provide updates on the implementation of their plans every two years; requires EPA to impose penalties on those states that do not develop or implement their plans to reduce pollution levels; increases federal funding to support states’ overall implementation of the program; and provides billions to strengthen control of discharges from municipal storm sewer systems and agricultural non-point sources. ###
10.14.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 14, 2009 Cummings-Authored Maritime Workforce Development Act Passes House Bill will create student loan program to create a new generation of American mariners. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings was pleased with passage of the Maritime Workforce Development Act, H.R. 2651. The bill passed on a voice vote, with more than two-thirds of the House voting in favor. Congressman Cummings wrote this legislation to address the education and training needs of our nation’s merchant mariners. H.R. 2651 amends Title 46 of the United States Code, directing the Secretary of Transportation to establish a student loan program to attract the next generation of workers to good paying jobs available in the maritime industry. The loan program will also help those already in the industry obtain the certifications and training they need to move ahead in their careers. “We constantly talk about jobs in America, and making sure Americans have the opportunities they deserve,” Rep. Cummings said Wednesday afternoon, on the House floor. “Something is wrong with the picture when their opportunity comes up and we take a hike on them. Anyone who knows anything about the maritime industry knows it will be increasing…to a very large extent. This is money that is needed. Our children are our message to a future we will never see. What kind of message will we be sending if our children are unprepared?” Many who currently work in the maritime industry are nearing retirement age. The Maritime Administration indicated that at the time of the hearings regarding this bill, the average age of a mariner with a Master’s license was 51 while the average age of a Chief Engineer was 50. While many facilities in the United States provide outstanding training programs for those seeking to enter or advance in the maritime field, tuition can be very expensive. Mariners who have already begun their careers rarely enroll in 2 or 4-year educational programs. Instead, they typically enroll in multi-week courses to obtain a specific new certification – and they enroll in such courses several times a year. Individuals can receive up to $60,000 in loans over the course of a lifetime. H.R. 2651 also authorizes the appropriation of $10 million in each of fiscal years 2010 through 2015 to support loans, attracting new individuals to a field critical to the success of our national economy. ###
10.13.2009	Cummings Welcomes Important Funds For Energy Reduction Full funding from Obama Administration will support energy efficiency and renewables development. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings welcomed the announcement by U.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu today, announcing that Maryland has received all State Energy Program funding allocated to the state under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Cummings was also pleased to hear that an additional $25 million was awarded to the state, which has now received a total of $51 million through the State Energy Program. This program will support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects across the state, while creating jobs and reducing carbon pollution. “This money will have two critical functions,” said Congressman Cummings. “It will not only help continue the revolution in American energy independence here in Maryland, but it will also provide the high-paying American jobs that are so critical to our economic recovery.” Secretary Chu said that the funding will allow states to create innovative energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, creating jobs in communities across the country while reducing carbon pollution and shifting how America uses energy. Maryland will use Recovery Act SEP funding to encourage clean and efficient energy use in the transportation, residential, commercial, and industrial sectors. The state will also create a variety of initiatives designed to boost consumer awareness, increase the availability of alternative fuels, and facilitate the deployment of hybrid-electric and all-electric vehicles. Maryland will make grants in support of cost-effective and environmentally responsible building retrofits, for low- and middle-income Maryland homes. In addition, public-financing programs such as the EmPOWERing Financing (EF) Initiative will enable property owners to leverage private capital in order to implement efficiency improvements. -30- ###
10.02.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 2, 2009 Cummings Receives Distinguished Service Award Health Center designed to serve under-privileged population to present Cummings with honor. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) will receive the Distinguished Service Award from Total Health Care tonight, Friday, October 2, 2009 at 8 p.m., at the Baltimore Marriott Waterfront in Baltimore. The award will be presented as part of a gala put on by Total Health Care to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the company. Cummings said he was proud to receive the award from a company dedicated to public service. “In Baltimore and other communities across America, 1200 community health centers are advancing one of the most important human rights initiatives of our time,” Cummings said. “They provide health care to 18 million uninsured and under-insured Americans, including millions of children. They work to eliminate the unacceptable and immoral conditions in our health care system that have made being Black or poor important factors in our mortality statistics.” Cummings will speak, following the award, regarding the moral imperative of healthcare. Total Health Care, Inc. operates eight health care facilities throughout Baltimore and is a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) funded in part by Local, State and Government agencies. Federally Qualified Health Centers served more than 215,000 patients in 2007 - many of whom would otherwise have been denied care.
09.30.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 30, 2009 Cummings Reviews Coast Guard Efforts to Strengthen Search and Rescue Programs Subcommittee Chair applauds efforts to improve programs, realizes further improvement is possible. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) convened the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation this morning, reviewing the Coast Guard’s Search and Rescue (SAR) Mission in light of shortcomings identified in two recent SAR cases. Many of the questions asked centered around two SAR incidents in which lives were lost. In a 2007 incident, a freighter collided with a fishing boat named the Buona Madre. The fisherman aboard the Buona Madre was found dead in the water a day after the Coast Guard ended its SAR case after mistakenly concluding that no collision had occurred. An eventual investigation showed that the Coast Guard did not use the “full range of search and rescue resources” in this case. The second incident, earlier this year, saw a 54-foot fishing boat, the Patriot, sink near Gloucester, MA. In this case, it is likely that both of the individuals on the Patriot probably died and their vessel had sunk before the Coast Guard was even alerted to the existence of a possible crisis. However, the subsequent investigation of this SAR effort uncovered what the Coast Guard itself calls an “inefficient” response that “revealed several procedural, training, and judgment short-falls.” Coast Guard RADM Sally Brice-O’Hara discussed the impact that shortfalls in Coast Guard resources, particularly in personnel has had on the SAR program, including limiting the service’s ability to convert some command positions from 24-hour watches to 12-hour watches. However, Brice-O’Hara emphasized the Coast Guard has taken action to address current shortcomings. The USCG has extended the maritime search planning course at the National SAR School and introduced a Command Center training course for new Operations Unit Controllers. The Coast Guard is also adding more than 200 positions to strengthen Command Center staffing. Congressman Cummings said, “The SAR mission is one of the Coast Guard’s most central missions – and one that the service typically executes with exceptional efficiency. Shortcomings have been uncovered in the Coast Guard’s management of this mission through the Buona Madre and Patriot cases. They are deeply troubling – particularly as they point to relatively inexperienced personnel in Command Centers who lacked judgment and analytical skills critical to the Coast Guard’s ability to manage complex SAR cases. “I applaud the measures taken by the Coast Guard to increase the number of Command Center personnel and improve training to ensure adequate staffing with fully trained individuals. I know the Coast Guard will continue to thoroughly assess its performance of this mission and to respond decisively to any shortcomings it identifies. I will continue to fight to ensure this service has resources equal to the demands made of it. Those resources are particularly critical because every SAR case involves a life in imminent peril.”
09.22.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 22, 2009 Cummings Votes To Help Unemployed Workers In Heavy Unemployment AreasLegislation supports states most impacted by unemployment, extending benefits 13 extra weeks. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings voted yes today on the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2009 (H.R. 3548). The legislation will extend unemployment benefits by up to 13 weeks for over 300,000 jobless workers who reside in high unemployment states. These workers are projected to run out of unemployment compensation by October. The bill will also apply to over one million workers who will otherwise exhaust benefits before the end of the year. These benefits will help workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own buy necessities for their families, as well as continue their mortgage payments. The unemployment funding will thus immediately move back into the stream of the economy. “Our friends and families throughout the nation are still suffering from this economic downturn,” said Congressman Cummings. “Jobs tend to recover slower than the rest of the economy, but we know they will come back. We must avoid slowing that process even more, by keeping as many Americans as we can out of poverty and foreclosure. This legislation will do exactly that.” Several indicators show the economy is improving, but there are still nearly six unemployed Americans for every available job and long-term unemployment is at an historically high level. Five million Americans have been without work for longer than six months. This legislation is deficit-neutral. The cost of the bill is offset by two provisions. First, it extends for one year a federal unemployment tax that has been in place for over 30 years and which President Bush proposed extending in his last budget. The tax costs employers $14 per year, per employee. Second, it requires that current reporting on newly hired employees include the date work started to reduce unemployment insurance overpayments. The high unemployment states qualifying for additional benefits are AL, AZ, CA, FL, GA, ID, IL, IN, KY, MA, ME, MI, MS, MO, NV, NJ, NC, NY, OH, OR, PA, PR, RI, SC, TN, WA, WI, WV and the District of Columbia. Unemployed workers outside of these high-unemployment States also may qualify for more weeks of benefits this year if their State is close to meeting certain triggers.
09.18.2009	MEDIA ADVISORY September 18, 2009 Cummings Corrects Media Reports of Thursday Evening VoteNews stories, including wire copy, stating that House of Representatives voted to strip, or to continue, funding ACORN are incorrect. (Washington, DC) – This advisory is intended to correct misleading stories filed Thursday. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings did, in fact, not vote to fund ACORN on Thursday. The Congressman voted no on a “Motion to Recommit,” related to HR 3221, the single largest improvement to student loan programs in the history of the United States. The motion was a procedural stunt, used by Republicans. Rep. Issa attached an amendment to the bill and then returned it immediately to the floor. The amendment was to strip ACORN funding only from the bill at hand. A YEA vote returned the bill WITH the amendment; a NO vote returned the bill WITHOUT the amendment. This bill improves access to Perkins Loans, Pell Grants and other higher education assistance, there was no funding for ACORN in the bill. The Motion was a completely pointless procedural trick, designed to create a story that Representatives voting against it voted to approve ACORN funding. There is no truth to that story. This bill would not have funded ACORN, regardless of the vote on the motion. Now, the facts: Congressman Cummings issued a statement earlier this week: “I am aware of the issues faced by ACORN in the Baltimore and Washington areas, and the hidden camera footage obtained by a conservative web site. Obviously, mistakes were made by workers employed by the ACORN organization. Though the employees responsible have been dealt with, ACORN must be responsible for employee actions. If a law similar to that approved by the Senate were to be voted on by the House, I would have no choice but to vote yes, stripping Federal funding from ACORN. However, it is important to realize that ACORN does much good work, helping low-income families find affordable housing, file their taxes and providing other services that are otherwise unavailable. It is important for ACORN to change their management style, to provide more structure, stricter rules for employees, and a more consistent set of best practices. This will enable them to regain the public trust and support of their mission, helping those left in our nation’s shadows.” Simply put, Congressman Cummings voted against wasting time while important issues like healthcare reform and creating new jobs still lie before the Congress. Because there was no funding in the bill, this was not the same as the Senate vote. The motion and the amendment were approved. This stripped NO funding from ACORN. This misunderstanding aside, Congressman Cummings was proud to vote for the largest investment in aid to help students and families pay for college in history -- and at no cost to taxpayers. This bill is a major step forward in President Obama's initiative to make sure America once again leads the world in college graduates by 2020. It will reform the system of federal student loans to save the taxpayers $87 billion and will direct $10 billion back to the Treasury to reduce entitlement spending. The bill changes the way the student loan system functions by originating new loans through the government's Direct Loan program, but will maintain competition among private lenders and non-profits to provide top-notch customer service for student borrowers. This simple change will make college loans more reliable for students and families -- and ensure that loans operate in the best interests of borrowers by reducing many of the potential conflicts of interest that exist in the current loan system. If you have further questions about the bill, or the non-existent ACORN funding, you may reach Paul Kincaid at paul.kincaid@mail.house.gov. ###
09.17.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 17, 2009 Cummings Welcomes President Obama Back to MarylandPresident Speaks to Maryland, Promoting Importance of Healthcare Reform (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings was proud to welcome President Barack Obama back to Maryland Thursday afternoon. The President spoke to a full Comcast Center on the campus of the University of Maryland, College Park. President Obama spoke about a cause of particular importance to Congressman Cummings, the continuing quest to reform health care in America. “The President reinforced the message sent by the millions of voters who sent him to the White House last November” said Congressman Cummings. “Time is short. The moment is now. We must protect millions of Americans who do not have reliable access to healthcare in this country. We must save thousands who die each year because they cannot afford coverage. We must free businesses to compete on an equal footing, in a global economy, powered by workers who know they can protect their families, with coverage they can take from job to job, and that they can afford to keep if they are between jobs. President Obama and I both believe the United States cannot afford to wait another moment to enact a massive reform to our nation’s broken healthcare system. We know that many employers are unable to afford rising health care costs. In fact, our country could see an additional 3.5 million people unemployed and without benefits in the next 4 years. Meanwhile, at least 46 million Americans are uninsured - more than 85% of whom are in working families. Without wellness and preventive care, families suffer, and their care drives up costs throughout the system. With the exception of Massachusetts, which enacted health insurance reform in 2006, every state in the nation has seen their population of uninsured grow or remain unacceptably high from 2001 to 2008. These numbers do not even include those who have lost their insurance in the recent recession or have had coverage gaps of shorter than a year. In nearly every state, private coverage is eroding with the percentage of people covered by employer-based coverage decreasing. Since 2007, the Democratic-led Congress has relentlessly sought solutions providing every single American with access to quality, affordable healthcare. 79 hearings and countless meetings were held, discussing solutions. The time has come to put the resulting plan into action. President Obama, like myself, understands “the fierce urgency of now.” We are in a time in our nation when the stars have aligned; when improvements fought for by the Democratic majority are needed by the country. Thursday’s event only underscores the many reasons that I will continue to support President Obama in the House of Representatives, making sure that a real, effective healthcare reform bill is ready for his signature as soon as possible.” ###
09.17.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 17, 2009 Cummings Introduces Bill to Encourage Youth Voting, Civic EducationBill will create grants to support Constitution education classes in public, charter schools. (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today announced a bill that would expose more students to the lessons of Democracy contained in our Constitution and encourage them to get more involved in selecting the leaders of our nation. The Constitution and Citizenship Day Act of 2009 (H.R. 3591) provides public and charter high schools with an incentive to expose students to the importance of the Constitution as well as distribute and collect voter registration forms from eligible students. “Voter turnout in our nation is embarrassingly low and the understanding of the foundation of our country is often equally poor,” said Congressman Cummings. “Young people now make up nearly a third of our electorate. We must ensure they are an educated electorate, not just in academic studies, but in the history and laws of our nation.” Constitution Day falls on September 17th of each calendar year normally without any wide public acknowledgement. The Constitution and Citizenship Day Act of 2009 provides public school districts with a financial grant award for using Constitution Day, September 17th as a day to teach students about the United States Constitution and the constitution of their state through participation To be eligible school districts will hold assemblies, discussions, or presentations. ###
09.17.2009	MEDIA ADVISORYSeptember 17, 2009 Cummings to Hold Forum Calling Black Men to ActionEvent will raise awareness about the need for mentors in African American communities (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), will host an issue forum with 100 Black Men of America, Inc. at this year’s CBC Foundation Annual Legislative Conference. The forum, “Men to Boys: Life Lessons to Uplift our Community,” will take place on Friday, September 25, 2009 from 1:30 pm to 4:50 pm in Room 207-A of the Walter E. Washington Convention Center. The event will begin with a riveting clip from the documentary “Men II Boys,” produced by award-winning documentarian Janks Morton and featuring LaMarr Darnell Shields who wrote the book “101 Things Every Boy/Young Man of Color Should Know,” which inspired the film. The forum will consist of two panel discussions moderated by Judge Greg Mathis of the nationally televised court show Judge Mathis. Panelists will discuss the necessary components of effective mentorship programs that can provide holistic support in all areas of a young man’s life and how those programs can be replicated. WHO: U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings 100 Black Men of America, Inc. WHAT: CBC Foundation Annual Legislative Conference Issue Forum on Mentoring in African American communities WHEN: Friday, September 25, 2009, 1:30pm-4:50pm WHERE: Washington Convention Center, Room 207-A 801 Mt. Vernon Place, NW Washington, DC 20001 PANELISTS: Judge Greg Mathis (Moderator), The Judge Mathis Show Panel 1: (1:30-3:10) John Bryant Founder & Chairman Operation HOPE Jeff Johnson International Journalist, Political Commentator BET Networks Dr. Joshua Murfree Vice Chairman of Programs 100 Black Men of America, Inc. Bishop Dwayne Debnam Pastor Morning Star Baptist Church Call to Mentor (3:20pm) Susan Taylor, National Cares Mentoring Movement Essence Magazine Editor-Emeritus Panel 2: (3:30 – 4:50) Kevin Liles Executive Vice President Warner Music Group Dr. Robert Franklin President Morehouse College Dr. Pierre Vigilance Director District of Columbia Department of Health Dr. Steve Perry Founder & Principal Capital Preparatory Magnet School ###
09.15.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 15, 2009 Cummings Congratulates Area "Blue Ribbon Schools" Two Area Schools Named by Secretary of Education Duncan (Washington, DC) – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today congratulated the principals, teachers, staff and students of two schools in the Seventh Congressional District, on attaining “Blue Ribbon School” status. Resurrection - St. Paul School of Ellicott City, led by Principal Karen Murphy and Hammond Middle School of Laurel under Principal Kerry McGowan, were the two schools named. The Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors public and private schools that are academically superior or have shown dramatic improvement in student achievement to high levels, especially among disadvantaged students. These schools serve as models for other schools throughout the nation and details of their achievements are shared on the U.S. Department of Education’s website. “The jobs most important for the future of our nation are in these schools,” Congressman Cummings said. “For our country to continue to grow, to innovate and to thrive, we must have young people who can write, who understand math and science and who have a passion for learning that will last their entire lives. These schools have proven that we can produce those young people right here in Maryland.” On Tuesday, September 15, 2009, U. S. Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan will designate more than 300 public and private schools across the country as 2009 Blue Ribbon Schools. The Secretary’s announcement will take place at a Blue Ribbon School in Montgomery County, Maryland. At the invitation of Secretary Duncan, the principal and one teacher from each school will be invited to Washington, DC for the November 2 and 3 awards Ceremony. At the awards ceremony, each of the schools will receive a Blue Ribbon Schools plaque and a flag to signify its status.
09.15.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 15, 2009 Cummings Votes to Reprimand Rep. Wilson, Encourages House to Focus on Healthcare Cummings: “This episode has not stopped a plumber in Columbia, or a saleswoman in Baltimore, from lying awake at night, frightened beyond belief because in the blink of an eye, their jobs and their insurance could disappear. (Washington, DC) – Following his yea vote on H.Res. 744, reprimanding Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), for his conduct during the Joint Session of Congress on September 9, 2009, Congressman Elijah Cummings (MD-07) inserted a statement into the Congressional Record including the following: “Congressman Wilson’s outburst was a clear violation of the House rules. How will we serve as a model of democracy -- around the globe -- and to our children here at home, if we cannot be the change we seek? That said -- we must focus on the most important issue at hand. This episode has not stopped a plumber in Columbia, or a saleswoman in Baltimore, from lying awake at night, frightened beyond belief because in the blink of an eye, their jobs and their insurance could disappear. We must not be distracted. Though Rep. Wilson was wrong, that wrong is nothing, compared to allowing one more American to suffer and die because they cannot afford the care they need to live.”
08.26.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on the Death of Senator Ted Kennedy Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement today in response to the death of Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) due to brain cancer: “Today, I join the world in mourning the loss of a man who will forever be a true American hero. For decades, Senator Kennedy has been a stalwart in our community, fighting for our children, for our seniors, and for the best interests of millions of families across the nation. Through his last day, we witnessed in him the same courage, determination, and selfless service that have characterized his constant efforts to lift up the lives of all Americans. “Senator Kennedy’s dedication to creating opportunities and improving the lives of every single individual, whether through quality education or affordable health care, created an impact that will be felt by generations yet unborn. Although he will not physically be with us this year when his dream of quality, affordable health care for all is realized, his relentless leadership and commitment to this issue will be present in the hearts and minds of the Congress and the American people. “Senator Kennedy has been and will continue to be an inspiration to us all, leading by example and setting an incredibly high standard for all of us to follow. My deepest thoughts and endless prayers go out to his family as they search for solace from this tragic loss.” ###
08.17.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Need for A Public Option Baltimore, Md.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement reiterating his support of a public option in any health care reform legislation: “Health care reform is one of the greatest and most important legislative decisions of our lifetime, and we cannot afford to get it wrong. We must move quickly to fix the broken health care system, but we must also be sure that we don’t allow politics and lobbyists to manipulate this bill into something that does not meet the standards that the American people deserve. We must be sure that we have legislation that includes a public option—it would be unfair to require all Americans to purchase health insurance without the guarantee of an affordable option provided by true competition. “The public option is based on the same fundamental principle upon which our entire nation was built: competition. A competitive environment will put an end to the practices that have left so many families with outrageous medical bills and substandard medical care while leaving insurance company executives with fat wallets. The public option will ensure that companies provide Americans with quality, affordable plans that are based on common sense and recommendations of doctors and other medical experts. “We only have one opportunity to get this legislation right, and we must stand strong together and fight for reform that will truly make a difference. This is simply too important to make concessions that will fundamentally alter the composition and effectiveness of the bill. President Obama has emphasized the importance of the public option in the past, and we cannot afford to drop such a critical component of reform in favor of another option that isn’t guaranteed to make any significant difference in the status quo. “The status quo hurts every single individual in this country, whether it’s the breast cancer survivor or asthmatic child who can’t get coverage because of a pre-existing condition, the family who simply can’t afford the skyrocketing out-of-pocket costs and premiums, or the millions of the insured who each pay an extra $1,100 in premiums to compensate for the costs of the uninsured. Every day, additional Americans lose their health insurance or are denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions. Families are driven to bankruptcy because of medical bills. Children cannot see doctors when they get sick. Employers are forced to leave their employees without coverage because they just can’t afford the costs. The need for health care reform—with a public option—is clear.” ###
08.06.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings, Maloney, Moran Hold Press Conference to Release JEC Report on Women and Health Care New Report Examines What’s at Stake for Women in Health Care Reform Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a member of the Joint Economic Committee, was joined by Committee Chairwoman Carolyn B. Maloney and Congressman Jim Moran to release a JEC new report entitled, “Comprehensive Health Insurance Reform: An Essential Prescription for Women.” The report reveals that during the current economic recession, women are experiencing a double-whammy of lost health insurance as they lose their insurance due to either their own or their spouse’s job loss. In addition, the JEC report chronicles the vulnerability created by women’s dependence on their spouse’s employer-sponsored health insurance, the unique risk of un-insurance for younger and older women, and the spike in newly uninsured children of unemployed single mothers. To access the new JEC report, click here. Rep. Cummings said, “We cannot continue with a health care system that discriminates against our mothers, daughters, sisters, and friends. We must act now to pass the comprehensive health care reform under consideration by the Congress to ensure that all Americans—including women—have access to quality, affordable health care that covers their individual needs.” JEC Chair Maloney said, “Today’s report underscores the unique risks women face in losing their health insurance coverage, and their unique difficulties obtaining affordable, quality health insurance policies. The system is clearly broken – over one million women have lost their health insurance because their spouse lost their job. The comprehensive health care reform proposals offered by the Obama Administration and currently taking shape in Congress include numerous provisions that are critical to providing quality, affordable health care for all Americans, both women and men. Many of these solutions are a key part of the prescription for easing the burden on America’s women, for whom the status quo health care system is a failure.” JEC Vice Chair Schumer said, “This report should be a wake-up call to all legislators that we simply cannot afford to ignore the needs of a 64 million plus population. Women and men have different health needs, which in turn makes them some of the most active participants in our health care system. This fact illuminates the harsh reality that women are growingly susceptible, both economically and physically, to the effects of our broken system. I join with Chairwoman Maloney in continuing to work with our colleagues in Congress on proposals that benefit all Americans, giving mothers, sisters, daughters and grandmothers the care they need and deserve." Rep. Moran said, “Our current health system—the most expensive in the world—needs urgent surgery to insure women, especially those most grievously affected by the recession, receive equal care. For far too many women and their families, quality, affordable health care is out of reach. More than two out of every five low income women today lack health care insurance. With urgent warnings about a renewal of swine flu this fall and steep declines threatening even deeper cuts in state Medicaid funding, it is critical for us to act. Our goal—as Americans—should be to provide quality, affordable health care for all Americans.” Key Findings From The JEC Report Include: · Over one million women have lost their health insurance due to a spouse’s job loss during the current economic downturn. Women have lost 1.6 million jobs since the recession began in December 2007, and many of those women saw their health insurance benefits disappear along with their paychecks.Second, women whose spouses lose their jobs are also vulnerable to losing their health benefits, because so many women receive coverage through a spouse’s job-based plan. The Joint Economic Committee estimates that over 1.4 million women have lost health insurance benefits because of the contraction in the labor market since December 2007. 71 percent (1,001,913) lost their insurance due to a spouse’s job loss. 29 percent (414,964) of those women lost their insurance due to their own job loss. · As a consequence of single mothers’ job loss, the Joint Economic Committee estimates that at least 121,000 children have lost health insurance coverage. The weak job market has been rough on single mothers; the number of unemployed female heads of household has increased 53 percent over the past twelve months. For many of these women, the loss of a job means not only a disappearing paycheck, but also the disappearance of employer-sponsored health insurance coverage for their families. · Women between the ages of 55 and 64 are particularly vulnerable to losing their health insurance benefits because of their husbands’ transition from employer-sponsored coverage to Medicare. One recent study concludes that a husband’s transition from employer-sponsored coverage to Medicare at age 65 can be problematic for his younger wife. Many of these wives depended on their spouse’s employer-based coverage and are not yet age-eligible for Medicare. As a result, 75 percent of these women reported delaying filling prescriptions or taking fewer medications than prescribed because of cost. · Younger women are particularly vulnerable to lacking adequate health insurance coverage. Over one-quarter (28 percent) of all young women (ages 19-24) do not have health insurance coverage. The weak job market has hit young workers particularly hard, with the unemployment rate amongst young women at 15.7 percent in June 2009, the highest in a quarter century and substantially higher than the national unemployment rate of 9.5 percent. The dismal job market means that young women are less likely than ever to have access to job-based coverage, and many women who once received coverage through a parent’s health insurance plan have seen this coverage evaporate with their parents’ jobs. · 41 percent of all low-income women lack health insurance coverage. Because of wide variability in state Medicaid eligibility rules, millions of American women fall through the safety net every day. The devastating impact of the recession on state budgets has forced some states to further tighten Medicaid eligibility rules at precisely the time when need is growing fastest. · The health consequences of inadequate coverage are more severe for women than for men. Women are more likely than men to run into problems receiving adequate medical care. Over a quarter (27 percent) of women had health problems requiring medical attention but were not able to see a doctor, compared to 21 percent of men. Similarly, nearly a quarter (22 percent) of women reported that they were unable to fill a needed prescription, as compared to 15 percent of men. · While the financial burden of inadequate health insurance coverage weighs heavily on all Americans, uninsured and under-insured women suffer more severe economic consequences than do men. Women are more likely than men to deplete their savings accounts in order to pay medical bills. One-third of under-insured women deplete their savings to pay medical bills, as compared to a quarter of under-insured men. The disparity is comparable amongst the uninsured (34 percent of uninsured women as compared to 29 percent of uninsured men). The comprehensive health care reform proposals offered by the Obama Administration and currently taking shape under the leadership of Democrats in the House and Senate includes numerous provisions that are critical to providing quality, affordable health care for all Americans, both women and men. Many of these solutions are a key part of the prescription for easing the burden on America’s women, for whom the status quo health care system is a failure. To access the new JEC report, click here. ###
08.06.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Statement on the Confirmation of Judge Sotomayor Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in response to the Senate confirmation of Judge Sotomayor as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court: “I am extremely pleased to congratulate Judge Sonia Sotomayor on her historic confirmation this afternoon as the first Hispanic American Supreme Court Justice. Judge Sotomayor’s career serving in nearly every aspect of the law offers her a depth of experience and broad range of perspectives that will prove to be invaluable on our nation’s highest court. Her personal story, rising from poverty to become an esteemed judge who has received appointments from Democratic and Republican Presidents alike, is both an inspiration and a testament to the American Dream that is embedded in the fabric of our nation.” ###
08.06.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent the letter below to Neil Barofsky, the Special Inspector General for TARP, and David Kotz, the Inspector General for the SEC, regarding the $33 million in fines that Bank of America agreed to pay following an SEC enforcement action against the bank for making false and misleading statements to shareholders about the issuance of bonuses to Merrill Lynch executives during BofA’s acquisition of Merrill. Because American taxpayers have poured in $45 billion of assistance to Bank of America, Congressman Cummings is concerned that taxpayers will ultimately be the ones paying the fine. Specifically, the Congressman is asking the Inspectors General to investigate the following issues when the SEC issues fines against TARP recipients: How the enforcement action may harm the firm's viability and threaten systemic risk to the financial industry; Whether the fines levied would essentially be paid with taxpayer funds; Whether the fines would harm the shareholder investment in the firm when the U.S. taxpayer is the shareholder; and Whether Fed or Treasury officials played a role in the violations that led to the SEC enforcement actions. Text of the letter: August 6, 2009 The Honorable Neil M. Barofsky Special Inspector General for the Troubled Assets Relief Program 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 1064 Washington, D.C. 20220 The Honorable H. David Kotz Inspector General, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549-2736 Dear Inspectors General Barofsky and Kotz: As you are aware, it was reported in the Wall Street Journal on August 3 that the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) brought an action against Bank of America for false and misleading statements, to which Bank of America agreed to pay $33 million in fines. The violations were related to misleading statements in proxies regarding the issuance of bonuses to executives of Merrill Lynch, which was in the process of being acquired by Bank of America. Interestingly, The Washington Post ran a story on August 4 (“Dueling Public Interests In Policing Rescued Firms”) describing the questions that persist at the SEC regarding enforcement actions against firms that have received government financial assistance through the Troubled Assets Relief Program (“TARP”). The articles described the following conflicts inherent in punishing firms for the violation of securities laws in order to protect shareholders: (1) the enforcement action may harm the firm’s viability, and threaten systemic risk to the financial industry; (2) the fines levied would essentially be paid with taxpayer funds; (3) the fines would harm the shareholder investment in the firm, when the shareholder is the U.S. taxpayer; and (4) the role played by Federal Reserve or Treasury officials in the actions upon which fines were issued may have been significant to the occurrence of the violation but cannot be investigated by the SEC. As we continue to unravel the transactions and linkages that contributed to this recession, it is conceivable to expect that additional violations of securities laws will be revealed, and that those violations could have occurred at firms that have received government assistance. Therefore, I respectfully request that your offices investigate the extent to which the enumerated scenarios above existed in the case of SEC v. Bank of America, as well as the potential for future instances of the above conflicts, given the current interaction between government and the private financial sector. I appreciate the work your offices have done as our nation moves toward economic recovery, lending valuable insight and analysis to the Congressional oversight process. Please do not hesitate to contact me or Martin Levine in my office at 202.225.4741 (or martin.levine@mail.house.gov) with any questions. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress Enclosure Cc: The Honorable Rep. Edolphus Towns The Honorable Rep. Darrell Issa The Honorable Rep. Carolyn Maloney The Honorable Sen. Sam Brownback
08.03.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on New AIG CEO Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement in response to the appointment of Mr. Robert Benmosche as the new CEO of AIG: “I applaud AIG’s Board of Directors for moving quickly to find a new CEO, and I hope that Mr. Benmosche will take this opportunity to lead the company in a different direction than we have seen it take since receiving more than $180 billion in taxpayer assistance over the past year. “I urge Mr. Benmosche to act in the interests of the American taxpayers—the ultimate shareholders of AIG—and to bring with him the transparency and accountability that are necessary for AIG to regain the trust of both the Congress and the American people. To that end, I encourage Mr. Benmosche to submit a full financial disclosure similar to that required by individuals appointed to senior positions within a federal agency. “While I have sincere optimism about Mr. Benmosche’s ability to take the helm of AIG, I caution him that my colleagues and I will be closely watching his progress. We cannot afford to see more of the same reckless decisions that have been made by leadership at AIG. This company can do better, and I expect Mr. Benmosche to help it achieve that end.” ###
07.31.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Joins Colleagues to Rein in Irresponsible Executive Compensation Packages Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, joined a majority of his colleagues in passing the Corporate and Financial Institution Compensation Fairness Act—legislation to address the perverse incentives in compensation plans that encourage executives in large financial firms to take excessive risk at the expense of their companies, shareholders, employees, and ultimately American taxpayers. “Our nation is in the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, in large part because of the reckless, risky decisions that were taken by executives incentivized by excessive compensation packages,” Congressman Cummings said. “Millions of Americans are struggling as a result of this behavior, and it is important that we take every measure necessary to prevent it from happening again in the future.” The legislation passed today is part of a comprehensive plan for financial regulatory reform to address the events that led to the nation’s current financial crisis. It would provide shareholders of public companies with an annual, non-binding vote on the executive compensation plans of companies’ top five executives. It would also authorize federal regulators to proscribe inappropriate or risky compensation practices of financial firms with at least $1 billion in assets. Congressman Cummings has been a vocal advocate of accountability and oversight in the financial sector, particularly among companies that have received taxpayer money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Today, he introduced H.R. 3436, the TARP Executive Disclosure Act. This legislation would require the CEO and Board Chairman of any company that receives more than $30 billion in cumulative government assistance to file the same financial disclosure report that a Cabinet secretary would be required to file upon receiving a Presidential appointment. “As we try to rebuild our nation’s economy and move forward, it is critical that we not only address the issues that led us to this place, but also ensure that Wall Street is operating with transparency and accountability,” Congressman Cummings said. “The men and women running our country whose salaries are being paid by taxpayers are required to disclose basic information about their finances, and the CEO’s who are running companies being funded by taxpayers should have to meet this same standard.” ###
07.29.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 House Unanimously Passes Coast Guard Acquisition Reform Bill Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, joined his colleagues in unanimously passing H.R. 1665, the Coast Guard Acquisition Reform Act of 2009—legislation that Congressman Cummings introduced to build on the Coast Guard’s acquisition reform efforts and ensure accountability in the use of taxpayer dollars. “As families across our nation continue to lose their jobs, their homes, their savings, and their dreams, it is more critical than ever to ensure that their tax dollars are being used in the most effective and efficient way possible,” Congressman Cummings said. “The Coast Guard Acquisition Reform Act takes lessons learned from previous misuse of taxpayer funds to institutionalize the processes and procedures that will help the Coast Guard meet the standards that must accompany the expenditure of every single tax dollar.” The consequences stemming from the Coast Guard’s lack of a standardized acquisition process became clear in the failures of early procurements under the Service’s Deepwater program, a multi-billion dollar program through which the Coast Guard will replace or rehabilitate its cutters and aircraft. Because the Coast Guard had no proven process to guide the formulation of asset requirements, designs, and acquisition strategies and was unable to hold its contractors accountable for their performance, the program wasted hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars. In response to the criticisms of the Service’s acquisition management capacities, Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thad Allen created a new Acquisition Directorate and a “Blueprint for Acquisition Reform.” While the Coast Guard has taken these positive steps to restructure its acquisition management systems, there are still challenges remaining in the implementation of these new systems. H.R. 1665 would address these challenges by strengthening specific acquisition processes. Highlights of the bill include: Prohibit the Coast Guard from using a private sector lead systems integrator Require the appointment of a Chief Acquisition Officer who must be a Level III Program Manager with at least 10 years of professional experience in acquisition management Require the development of independent life-cycle cost estimates and testing and evaluation plans for the largest acquisition programs. “While I applaud the measures that Admiral Allen has taken to establish the management systems necessary to improve the Coast Guard’s acquisition process, even the best systems in the world are of no use if they aren’t followed,” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation helps to ensure that the Coast Guard establishes an effective and efficient acquisition process that will be implemented long after the current leadership has left.” As the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, Congressman Cummings has made a priority of ensuring that the Coast Guard can effectively manage its acquisition efforts and that it is fully accountable for its use of taxpayer resources. Since 2007, Chairman Cummings has convened four hearings focused on acquisition efforts. ###
07.24.2009	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke today reminds Americans who are still not digital-television ready that they have one more week to request converter box coupons before the July 31st deadline. "If you have lost your television programming since the switch to digital, help is still available," Secretary Locke said. Consumers who used to rely on over-the-air television have until July 31, just one week from today, to apply for a $40 converter box coupon so they can once again receive the news and emergency information they need." The Department of Commerce's TV Converter Box Coupon Program provides up to two $40 coupons per eligible household toward the purchase of converter boxes to help consumers who rely on free over-the-air broadcasting with the digital transition. Consumers have three options to receive digital television: subscribe to cable, satellite or another pay service; buy a television with a digital tuner; or purchase a TV converter box with or without a government coupon. When connected to an older analog TV and antenna, a TV converter box allows the television to receive over-the-air digital television signals. Coupons must be redeemed at the time of purchase, and consumers are encouraged to call ahead to confirm availability of coupon-eligible converter boxes on the day they plan to shop. Consumers may re-apply for coupons only if their previously issued coupons expired without being redeemed. Coupons expire 90 days after they are mailed and have the expiration date printed on them. Even though the transition is complete, the Department of Commerce's National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) has continued to provide consumer assistance by: Providing a dedicated TV Converter Box Coupon Program website www.dtv2009.gov and toll-free number - 1-888-DTV-2009 - with both English- and Spanish-speaking operators Running targeted radio ads Making coupon request and redemption data available to retailers to help them manage converter box inventory The efforts significantly cut unpreparedness numbers. Full-power television stations in the United States shut down their analog broadcast systems by June 12, 2009, and now have completely digital broadcasts. The transition to digital television frees up airwaves for better communications among emergency first responders and offers a clearer picture and more programming choices for many consumers. For more information about the switch to digital broadcasting, visit www.dtv2009.gov. To request converter box coupons, call 1-888-DTV-2009. Consumers who continue to experience reception problems can call the Federal Communications Commission hotline at 1-888-CALL-FCC. For assistance with a specific constituent concern or question about the Coupon Program, contact NTIA's Office of Congressional Affairs at 202-482-1551 (congressionalaffairs@ntia.doc.gov). end text
07.23.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Statement on Obama Health Care Press Conference Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement in response to President Obama’s prime time press conference last night: “We cannot afford to wait another moment to enact a massive reform to our nation’s broken healthcare system. Over the past decade, when President Bush and the Republican Congress were insisting that healthcare is fine, premiums doubled, out-of-pocket costs shot up by a third, and deductibles have continued to climb. While millions of American families grapple with the skyrocketing costs of healthcare and another 47 million individuals grapple with no health insurance at all, the health insurance companies have benefited from windfall profits. This system is broken, and we must heed the President’s call to act with the urgency of now and fix it. “Since 2007, the Democratic-led Congress has been relentlessly seeking solutions to find a healthcare system that will provide every single American access to quality healthcare. We have convened 79 hearings and held countless meetings to discuss what needs to be done to fix the broken system—and the time has come to put the resulting plan into action. “The Democratic health care reform has something for everyone. Families who already have health insurance and like it can keep it—and they will find more stability and security. Individuals without health insurance will finally be able to afford coverage. Insurance companies will no longer be able to drop coverage when people get sick and need it the most, and they will no longer be able to deny coverage based on a pre-existing condition. And, importantly, our plan will not add to the massive deficit that President Obama inherited from the last decade of Republican policies. “Last night, President Obama answered the questions people want to know about how they will benefit from health care reform, and now we must act with a sense of urgency to pass the comprehensive plan that has been ten years in the making.” ###
07.12.2009	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent the letter below to Kenneth Feinberg, the “Compensation Czar,” regarding reported discussions between Mr. Feinberg and AIG about upcoming bonuses scheduled to be delivered to AIG’s executives and other employees. Specifically, the Congressman is urging Mr. Feinberg to express to AIG that these bonuses are unacceptable, particularly given the company’s inability to demonstrate performance that warrants any type of reward. Additionally, the Congressman is asking Mr. Feinberg to impress upon AIG that the company’s first priority should be repaying the American taxpayer, noting that language in a recent SEC filing by AIG regarding the bonuses is ‘insulting’ to the American people. The text of the letter: July 13, 2009 Mr. Kenneth R. Feinberg Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation United States Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Mr. Feinberg: According to recent media reports, American International Group, Inc., (AIG) approached your office seeking approval of $2.5 million in performance-related bonuses for several dozen of the company’s high-ranking executives. These media reports also highlight the even larger compensation issues that remain unresolved at AIG, including more than $200 million in so-called retention payments scheduled to be paid in March 2010 and directed predominantly to the employees of the Financial Products (FP) unit of AIG—the same division whose transactions posed such a systemic risk to our entire economy that the U.S. government provided AIG more than $180 billion in financial assistance. Although I recognize that all of these various bonuses were promised before your appointment to the position of Special Master of Compensation, I urge you to reiterate the views of President Obama and the American people—who are now majority shareholders of AIG—that these bonuses are excessive and therefore simply unacceptable. Edward Liddy, Chairman and CEO of AIG, wrote in a letter to the Treasury at the time the first FP retention payments came due in March 2009 that Treasury had “asked AIG to rethink our 2008 corporate bonus proposals.” AIG’s Form 10K/A Amendment No. 1 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for fiscal year 2008 – filed on April 30, 2009 – offers revealing insight into exactly how seriously AIG has taken Treasury’s request that it “rethink” its bonus proposals. Specifically, the April 10K/A Amendment filing presents three compensation principles that AIG states “guided our actions as 2008 developed.” These three principles are: Principle 1: Embrace evolving standards of compensation governance. Principle 2: Bring AIG’s historic guiding principles into 2009. Principle 3: Act, if necessary, to provide appropriate incentives to preserve value. Having set forth these principles, AIG offers some interesting observations. For example, the firm notes that “AIG continues to face extraordinary challenges that demand focus and difficult decisions in regard to the compensation of AIG’s seniormost employees.” But, using its guiding principles, “AIG intends to face these challenges and strike the best possible balance between motivating its experienced, capable and technically proficient employees to achieve results that matter to American taxpayers and conserving scare liquidity resources.” To that end, as the firm has “faced the challenge of developing a new annual compensation framework, we have continued to be mindful of our historic compensation principles. We believe that we should continue to apply them, although we necessarily will implement these principles different than we did before.” Verbiage like this is frankly insulting to the American people. AIG’s ONLY guiding principle—in compensation policy and in all corporate matters—should be to repay the American taxpayer. There is no metric of any kind by which AIG can be judged to be a successful firm or to have “improved” its performance; in fact, its future as a going concern is judged by many to be very much in doubt. The firm has not earned any performance-related bonus consideration, and its “historic guiding principles” have guided it straight to the largest single quarterly loss and the largest taxpayer-funded corporate bailout in history. Under no circumstances is it tolerable to think that these “historic guiding principles” should be allowed to be brought into 2009. Against this background, I urge you to undertake a comprehensive review of all aspects of AIG’s compensation policies and to express the strongest possible disapproval of any policy that does not have as its sole focus ensuring that AIG repays to the American taxpayers every single dollar loaned to it. It is beyond comprehension that AIG should be establishing a “corporate pool for variable performance-based pay” when the firm has demonstrated nothing to warrant any bonuses, or that it should contemplate awarding “retention payments” to individuals at the very unit that drove the firm into the ground. As you assess AIG’s proposed bonus awards, I urge you to use your position to focus AIG’s corporate policies on what should be its first and only priority: making the taxpayer whole—as Mr. Liddy himself indicated was his intention at a Congressional Hearing before the House Financial Services Committee on March 18, 2009. Mr. Liddy also told me personally in a meeting on January 15, 2009 that he hoped to return taxpayer money early. While I have not seen the company present a check to the U.S. Treasury, I continue to see the firm working to cut bonus checks to its corporate executives. As unemployment continues to rise, it is simply unconscionable that AIG should pay out millions of dollars in bonuses to AIG executives while the taxpayers who are footing the bill struggle to stay in their homes and feed their families. Everyone else in the country has been making sacrifices during these difficult economic times; there is no reason why the executives at AIG should be exempt. Please feel free to contact Nikki Jones in my office at 202.225.4741 to set up a time for us to further discuss this issue. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress cc: Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, U.S. Department of Treasury
07.10.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Statement on New Round of AIG Bonuses Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement in response to reports that AIG will be paying another round of bonuses to top executives: “AIG should be doing everything it can to pay back the American people who bailed the company out—not to pay off its executives. These executives’ bonuses are that they still even have jobs, which they owe to the taxpayers whose hard-earned dollars were put toward keeping the company from collapsing. “We should all be concerned that a company that can’t pay back the $180 billion it borrowed from American taxpayers can still somehow scrape up the money to pay millions of dollars in bonuses to its executives. By going through with these bonuses, AIG will be sending a loud message that it is still completely out of touch with the rest of the country. Everyone else is making concessions in these hard economic times, from the automakers to the people on my street forced to scale back on everything from groceries to recreation. The corporate executives on Wall Street should not be exempt. “By reaching out to Kenneth Feinberg, the ‘Compensation Czar,’ before making these payments, the leadership at AIG is showing that on at least some level they know this is wrong. Although Mr. Feinberg does not have authority over these bonuses because they were promised in 2008, I am hopeful that he will strongly reiterate to AIG President Obama’s views about corporate excess and bonuses. If AIG doesn’t have the money to survive on its own, it doesn’t have the money to dole out large bonuses to its executives.” ###
07.10.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Statement on Administration Letter to Mortgage Companies Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in response to a letter from Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan to 25 mortgage servicing firms urging the companies to ramp up their efforts to assist struggling homeowners: “Secretary Geithner was right on target in urging mortgage servicing companies to ramp up their efforts to accommodate struggling homeowners, and I know that I am joined by people all across the country in thanking him for acting with the urgency of now. “Last month, I held a foreclosure prevention forum that provided nearly 1,000 homeowners with the opportunity to sit down one-on-one with their lending companies to work out solutions to avoid foreclosure. It became very clear at this event that these mortgage servicing companies are willing to step up to the plate and help individuals in danger of foreclosure stay in their homes. However, it also became clear that the banks do not yet have the capacity to handle the large number of requests they are receiving for assistance. It is critical that these companies continue their efforts to help American families by staffing up to full capacity and properly training employees who will be tasked with assisting these homeowners. “Additionally, I urge Secretary Geithner to address the growing number of homeowners with prime loans who are losing their jobs and suddenly finding themselves at danger of falling through the cracks. With the loss of their main source of income, it is almost impossible for these individuals to modify their loans, and if their homes are underwater, opportunities to refinance or sell all but disappear. “I have proposed legislation, the Temporary Mortgage Assistance Act of 2009, H.R. 3066, which would provide short-term loans to help these individuals keep up with their mortgage payments while they find new employment—all at no new cost to the taxpayer. It is my hope that the Obama Administration will address this issue with the same urgency as other economic situations. We must all continue to work together to help restore our economy and keep Americans from losing their dreams of homeownership.” ###
07.02.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on New Unemployment Numbers Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to new figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics showing the loss of an additional 467,000 jobs in June: “Today’s job numbers underscore how critical a moment this is for the men and women of Main Street. While it is clear that the new economic policies implemented by President Obama and the Democratic-led Congress have slowed the rising unemployment rate, we know that it will take time for these new policies to fully take effect and reverse this trend. In the meantime, we must continue to do everything we can to help ease the pain of these hard times on American families. “There is no doubt in my mind that the rising unemployment rate has led in part to the very sharp increase in defaults on prime mortgages. As men and women lose their jobs, they suddenly find themselves in desperate situations. Upon losing their main source of income, it is almost impossible for these individuals to modify their home loans, and if their homes are underwater, there is little hope to refinance or sell. These are responsible men and women who have followed all of the rules and done everything right, and we cannot allow them to fall through the cracks. I have proposed legislation, the Temporary Mortgage Assistance Act of 2009, which would provide short-term government loans to help people make their mortgage payments as they look for new work—all at no new cost to taxpayers. “As we continue to roll out the President’s existing housing initiatives, I remain encouraged by the response of our nation’s banks as they step up to the plate to help restructure loans and find solutions to help salvage people’s dreams of homeownership. These banks must continue to staff up as quickly as possible to effectively and efficiently meet the rising demands of struggling families as they face foreclosure. “We must also continue to enact sensible legislation to keep stimulating our economy as we move toward economic recovery. The Congress must act urgently to pass Chairman Oberstar’s highway bill, which would create or save 6 million jobs. We cannot afford to wait another day, let alone 18 months, to move forward on this critical bill. Failure to act will almost certainly result in crippling job losses, a deepening of the economic recession, and further deterioration of our nation’s highways and bridges—essentially offsetting many of the benefits of the increased transportation investment provided by the Recovery Act. “I am confident that our nation will emerge from this economic crisis to see another day, but the question is what the landscape will look like. President Obama and the Congress have led the American people miles ahead, and today’s new job numbers are a stark reminder that we cannot stop now in creating the policies that will get us to the end of this road.” ###
07.01.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman Cummings Announces New College Loan Benefits New program allows borrowers to cap loan payments, reduces interest rates, and increases Pell Grants Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) announced a new program to make college loans more affordable to repay by allowing borrowers to establish income-based caps on their monthly loan payments and by reducing interest rates and increasing Pell Grants for qualified low- and moderate-income students. “There is absolutely no excuse for a young person to be denied an education because he or she can’t afford it, but more than 200,000 students miss out on college each year for this very reason,” Congressman Cummings said. “Education is a right, not a luxury, and my colleagues and I in the Congress are doing everything we can to keep the high cost of college from acting as a roadblock to our children’s futures.” The new benefits that go into effect today will allow borrowers to participate in a new income-based repayment program that caps monthly loan payments at just 15 percent of their discretionary incomes (defined as 15 percent of what a borrower earns above 150 percent of the poverty level for the size of his or her family). After 25 years in the program, a borrower’s remaining loan balances—including interest—will be completely forgiven. The Congressman also announced today that new funding allocations combined with boosts from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will increase the maximum Pell Grant scholarship for the 2009-2010 school year by $600 to $5,350. Additionally, the interest rate on subsidized federal student loans will decrease today from 6 percent to 5.6 percent, the second of four annual cuts to reach 3.4 percent by 2011. “These new benefits help clear the path for our nation’s neediest families to achieve the American Dream of receiving a college education,” Congressman Cummings said. “We must ensure that every child has the opportunity to make this dream a reality.” The new benefits announced today are all part of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act, which was enacted in 2007 under the new Democratic Congress. The legislation, which invested more than $20 billion in college financial aid—including more than $370 million for Maryland families—at no additional cost to taxpayers, was the single largest investment to help pay for college in more than 60 years. ###
06.26.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on the Death of Michael Jackson Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in response to the death of Michael Jackson: “No one can deny the significant contributions Michael Jackson made to our popular culture. He changed the face of music forever. Michael Jackson was more than just a popular icon, though. This is a man who pursued excellence throughout his professional life, taking his career to levels that amazed and inspired millions of people worldwide. “I can remember the sense of pride my classmates and I felt in high school when the Jackson 5 first came on stage. To see this family of such talented young people rise from the inner city to the national scene gave so many of us a sense of hope about what we could achieve ourselves. As Michael continued to progress through his career, his exceptional talent continued to have a lasting impact. “What this great man brought to our world will stay with us for generations to come. He is an inspiration who will truly be missed, and my thoughts and prayers go out to his family and loved ones.” ###
06.26.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Introduces Bill to Help Unemployed Homeowners Legislation would use TARP funds to provide short-term loans Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, introduced the Temporary Mortgage Assistance Act of 2009 (H.R. 3066), which would use unobligated TARP funds to provide short-term, low-interest government loans to individuals who have lost their jobs and are in danger of foreclosure. “As more and more workers lose their jobs, they become more vulnerable to foreclosure. Without a job, you have limited to no options for loan modification, and if you owe more on your house than it’s worth, your options to sell or refinance disappear,” Congressman Cummings said. “President Obama and the Democratic-led Congress have taken great strides to help struggling families survive the housing crisis, and this new legislation would ensure that the growing number of job-seeking homeowners have a chance to hang on to their homes—and their dreams.” According to the Mortgage Bankers Association’s quarterly loan delinquency survey released late last month, about 5.4 million of the country’s 45 million home loans were delinquent—including those facing foreclosure—during the first quarter. Alarmingly, the less-risky prime mortgages surpassed subprime mortgages for the first time in the number of new foreclosures, with the rate of prime mortgage foreclosures doubling from this period last year. This increase among prime mortgage foreclosures is tied at least in part to rising unemployment. The legislation introduced by Congressman Cummings would authorize the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to provide loans to eligible homeowners for a period not exceeding 18 months or $30,000 in aggregate, at an interest rate not exceeding 3 percent. To qualify for a loan, a homeowner must be at least 60 days delinquent, be unemployed and registered for state unemployment benefits, and have a reasonable prospect for re-employment. Additionally, the homeowner must be underwater. “For months, we have given hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars to help stabilize the big banks on Wall Street, and now it is time to return that money to our neighbors on Main Street,” Congressman Cummings said. “These loans would be going to responsible men and women who did everything right but, because of the current economic crisis, now find themselves in need of a short-term boost while they seek new employment. We cannot allow them to fall through the cracks.” The loans would be paid directly to a homeowner’s mortgage company, and the amount of the loans would be based on the percentage of household income lost during unemployment. For instance, if an individual’s job loss means a 60 percent reduction of household income, a loan would be issued in the amount of up to 60 percent of the mortgage payment. Although loans will accrue interest during the loan period, repayment will not begin until 60 days after the loan ends. ###
06.25.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 House Passes NDAA with Cummings Amendment to Protect U.S. Ships Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, joined his colleagues in a vote of 389-22 to approve the National Defense Authorization Act, H.R. 2647, which included a Cummings amendment that would require the Department of Defense to protect U.S.-flagged ships at risk of being boarded by pirates. “We would never leave the U.S. homeland unguarded if it were at risk of an attack, and we should apply this same standard to our ships instead of leaving them to fend for themselves,” Congressman Cummings said. “We anticipate that embarking military security personnel on these vessels will require far less manpower than patrolling the region with multiple Navy vessels and be much more efficient and effective in keeping our mariners safe.” As the number of incidents of piracy in the Horn of Africa region continues to rise, U.S.-flagged vessels are increasingly at risk of being hijacked. As of mid-May of this year, there have been 114 Somali pirate attacks in this area, resulting in 29 successful hijackings. By comparison, the entire year of 2008 saw 111 attacks. Additionally, U.S. mariners have been threatened by pirates seeking to avenge the deaths of their colleagues during the Navy’s operation to free Richard Phillips, the Captain of the Maersk Alabama. According to estimates by the U.S. Maritime Administration, approximately 54 U.S.-flagged vessels transit the Horn of Africa region during the course of a year, with only a handful at serious risk of pirate attacks due to their operating characteristics. The Cummings amendment would require that the DOD embark military security personnel on these vessels as they travel through areas with a known presence of pirates. “Our merchant fleet has always depended on our nation’s Naval power to ensure its safety, and we cannot shirk that duty now,” Congressman Cummings said. “Embarking military security personnel on these vessels makes a loud statement that our nation stands behind these ships and that we will not allow pirates to intimidate us.” Chairman Cummings convened two hearings this year to examine piracy on the high seas. Transcripts and video of those hearings is available at https://transportation.house.gov/subcommittees/maritime_transportation.aspx. ###
06.25.2009	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) sent this morning to Army Secretary Pete Geren urging him to address the lack of senior officer positions in the Army that are filled by minority candidates. Congressman Cummings has a strong record of working with the military to increase its diversity to fully represent our nation’s population. In his capacity as Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, he has held several hearings on civil rights and diversity that have led to fundamental changes in the Coast Guard’s approach to these issues. He has also authored language included in several defense bills to enact laws that would help improve diversity programs within the Armed Services and has met with high-ranking military officials on numerous occasions to discuss ways to improve their existing efforts to address issues of diversity. The Congressman also offered an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act under consideration today by the House of Representatives that would expand the Military Leadership Diversity Commission—which was created to develop a comprehensive plan to increase the number of gender- and ethnic-specific groups across the total military—to include the National Guard and Reserve Components. Text of the Letter: June 24, 2009 Secretary Pete Geren Office of the Secretary of the Army 1400 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20310-1400 Dear Secretary Geren: The Army has taken significant steps in its efforts to review and assess diversity programs through the creation of the Army Diversity Office. Through a recent update by BG Belinda Pinckney of these efforts, I learned that Army Diversity is out of balance at the senior leader levels. Further, One of your strategic goals is to implement commitment and accountability measures. On January 26, 2006, the Army’s Senior Leadership signed a joint policy statement on diversity which committed the Army to a diversity vision. The current policy, dated April, 1, 2009, pledges a vision for the Army to be the national leader in embracing the strengths of diverse people in an inclusive environment. Although these are steps in the right direction, I am concerned that within this three year Another strategic goal is to institutionalize diverse talent management. In order to effectively grow senior leaders, the Army must first increase the pool of minority officers seeking commissions through West Point and the Reserve Officer Training Corps. It was reported by the Boston Globe on June 17, 2009 that West Point had a 9 percent increase in applications submitted for the class of 2013; and the Naval Academy had a 41 percent increase in overall applications and 57 percent of this increase came from minority applicants. As a member of the Naval Academy Board of Visitors, this huge disparity in enrollment marks concerns for your recruitment efforts for both sources of commissioning. Secondly, once commissioned, a minority officers’ career path must be managed by placing them in high profile developmental jobs within their respective career fields to make them more competitive for advancement. Historically, officers in combat arms career fields dominated the pipeline for promotion to general officer. As the Army has transformed into a more agile force, leader development and promotion potential to the senior ranks must be representative across a broad spectrum of capabilities. The Army is a subculture of identifiable traditions and possesses a strong national presence. Diversity is critical to the organizational effectiveness of the Army’s culture. Leaders at all levels must have an understanding of this culture and be required to behave in a way that is consistent with the Army vision. Top down leaders seem more reluctant to change the way in which they think and act. Yet, these are also the decision makers managing future talent. Therefore, I am concerned about the effectiveness of diversity training and education at the senior levels. I appreciate the work that the Army has done thus far regarding diversity. There is a lot more that can be instituted strategically to align the Army strategy with those of public and private organizations and companies who have succeeded in achieving workforce diversity I understand that the Army is in the process of developing a strategic plan to correct this imbalance in efforts to resolve Congressional concerns regarding the lack of qualified African Americans who obtain the rank of General Officer in the Army. While the Army has made a good faith effort to address areas of minority underrepresentation, more aggressive steps are needed in order to achieve a fully diverse force and capitalize on the strength of this diversity. timeframe the Army has yet to identify concrete metrics to capture performance progress. Having addressed this issue for the past three years, the Army should be able to provide tangible results as a true measure of the leadership’s commitment to institutionalizing diversity into the culture. through their effective and efficient practices. Thank you for your attention to these concerns and I look forward to your reply and periodic updates on your plan. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress ###
06.23.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Introduces Bill to Provide Bonding Assistance to DBE's New legislation would help businesses owned by minorities, veterans, and women Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, introduced H.R. 2991, the Department of Transportation Bonding Assistance Authority Act of 2009, to help level the playing field for businesses owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals such as ethnic minorities, veterans, and women. “By their very nature, disadvantaged businesses are faced with seemingly endless and often unnecessary obstacles to success, and we must do everything we can to even the playing field so these companies can compete” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation would provide the opportunity for disadvantaged businesses to receive bonding assistance, removing one of the largest hurdles limiting their efforts to bid on federally supported transportation projects.” Lack of access to bonding is one of the largest hurdles that disadvantaged business enterprises (DBE's) face as they contemplate bidding on federally supported transportation projects, including those created under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Particularly in the current economic climate, many DBE's are unable to obtain bid, performance, and other types of bonds due to limited capital availability. The Cummings legislation would significantly expand the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (USDOT) authority to guarantee bonds issued to DBE's and authorize the appropriation of up to $50 million per year to fund the program. Additionally, the bill would enable up to five state programs with the proven ability to manage bond assistance programs to receive federal funding to support these programs. “We need to ensure that every eligible company has the opportunity to compete for these projects so that we have a fair process as well as the highest quality of work as we restore and expand our nation’s transportation infrastructure,” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation moves us miles ahead in achieving this goal.” ###
06.11.2009	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to consider options to assist homeowners who have lost their jobs and are struggling to stay in their homes (text of the letter below). “While the Obama administration and Democratic-led Congress have taken great steps to assist the millions of Americans whose American Dreams of homeownership have become nightmares of foreclosure, there is still a portion of our population at risk of falling through the cracks,” Congressman Cummings said. “Due to loss of income, many men and women who have lost their jobs are finding it difficult to benefit from options such as loan modifications that would help them keep their homes.” Congressman Cummings is currently drafting legislation, the Temporary Mortgage Assistance Loan Act of 2009, which would authorize the use of repaid TARP funds issued to banks through the Capital Purchase Program to provide short-term bridge loans to homeowners who have lost their jobs and are struggling to keep up with their mortgage payments. According to a recent paper issued by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, negative home equity and adverse life events such as job losses were the major factors affecting the likelihood of a mortgage delinquency. The paper also found that a one percent increase in the unemployment rate results in an increase of probability for a 90-day mortgage delinquency by 10 to 20 percent. Congressman Cummings is further concerned by the quarterly loan delinquency survey recently released by the Mortgage Bankers Association, which showed an alarming increase in the number of foreclosures among less risky prime borrowers. In Maryland, more of the foreclosure proceedings that began in the first quarter were for traditional prime borrowers than for subprime, and more of the people who had fallen behind by at least one payment were prime borrowers. “In my home State of Maryland, the number of prime borrowers behind on their mortgage payments rose by 90 percent from this period last year, at least in part because of negative home equity and unemployment,” Congressman Cummings said. “These are everyday men and women who have done everything right—they saved up for a good down payment, made sure that they got mortgages they can afford, and paid all of their bills on time. We helped the banks get back on their feet, and it is only right to afford American families this same opportunity.” Text of the Letter: June 11, 2009 President Barack Obama The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: In light of Tuesday’s announcement by Secretary of the Treasury Timothy Geithner that 10 of the largest financial institutions participating in the Capital Purchase Program will be permitted to repay government funds, I write to request that you consider allocating a portion of the repaid funds to provide bridge loans to enable homeowners who have lost their jobs to meet their mortgage payments. I am currently drafting legislation – the Temporary Mortgage Assistance Loan Act of 2009 – which would authorize the use of repaid Capital Purchase Program funding to accomplish this objective and anticipate introducing it shortly. A paper entitled “Reducing Foreclosures” and recently issued by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston found that negative home equity and adverse life events, e.g., job losses, were the major drivers affecting the likelihood of a mortgage delinquency. The paper further found that a one percent increase in the unemployment rate increases the probability of a 90-day delinquency by 10-20 percent. Given that on Friday, June 5, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the unemployment rate for the nation rose to 9.4 percent in May 2009, and that most major economists predict continuing job losses (albeit fortunately at rates lower than we have seen in recent months), we can likely expect mortgage delinquencies to continue to increase. The mortgage modification programs implemented by your Administration are working to help many families stay in their homes. However, a mortgage modification may be of little help to those who have no job and no steady income – and therefore targeted assistance is needed to help these individuals. These people want to pay their mortgages, and are frequently tapping into their dwindling savings in an effort to remain current. They are relentlessly looking for new employment and likely will find new jobs as the economy begins to improve. But, in the meantime, they need just a little push to help them stay on top of their mortgage payments and keep the homes they have worked their entire lives to own. The legislation I am proposing will provide temporary, low-interest loans to help unemployed homeowners with negative equity stay current on their mortgage payments while searching for work. These loans will be short-term in duration (likely no more than 24 months) and capped at specific amounts based on the geographic cost of housing. As I mentioned at the outset of this letter, I propose that a portion of the principal repaid by the firms that received aid through the Capital Purchase Program be reallocated for these temporary mortgage assistance loans. At the same time that responsible, hard-working homeowners have fallen victim to economic conditions beyond their control, private firms will be repaying funds they received to stabilize the economy for all of us. To direct these funds back out to the people that need them most seems a fitting next chapter in our on-going financial recovery efforts, and will give us a tremendous opportunity to keep responsible Americans in their homes. I appreciate the opportunity to follow up with you and your housing and economic policy team on this issue at your convenience. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress ###
06.10.2009	Washington, DC—Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, and Jesse Jackson, Jr., (D-Ill.) introduced H.R. 2778, the Health Equity and Accountability Through Research Act of 2009, which would elevate the National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NCMHD) to the level of Institute, giving it the authority to better address the appalling health disparities that are plaguing our nation’s minority communities. NCMHD was created to promote minority health and lead, coordinate, and assess the efforts of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to reduce and ultimately eliminate health disparities. However, the Center’s current structure creates ambiguity regarding who has the responsibility and authority for coordinated minority health disparities research conducted or supported by NIH. Additionally, NCMHD currently lacks real input into and authority over all NIH-supported health disparities activities and funds. To address these concerns, the bill would elevate the Center to the level of Institute, and clarify the role of the Director as coordinator and manager of the NIH-wide minority health and health disparities portfolio. The bill would also provide the new Institute with professional judgment over NIH-wide minority health and health disparities budgets as well as management over NIH-wide minority health and health disparities allocations. “Whether African Americans, Hispanics, American Indians, or Asians and Pacific Islanders, the minority populations in our country are more severely affected by diseases than our white counterparts across the board,” Congressman Cummings said. “Congressman Jackson and I are confident that elevating the NCMHD to the Institute level and providing its Director with clear authority over health disparity issues will empower NIH to better address the disparities that are killing our communities.” “I was pleased in 1999 to author the bill that elevated NIH's Office of Research on Minority Health to the National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities. Now it is time to take the next step,” Congressman Jackson said. “This bill would elevate the Center to an Institute and provide it with the authority and funding to track health disparities in this country. This bill will positively impact our understanding of health disparities among ethnic minorities and other medically underserved communities.” According to recent statistics: African Americans have death rates more than 40 percent higher than whites for heart disease, seven times higher for HIV/AIDS, double for prostate cancer, and 30 percent higher for all cancers. Hispanics have death rates 41 percent higher than whites for diabetes, 168 percent higher for chronic liver disease and cirrhosis, 168 percent higher for HIV/AIDS, and 18 percent higher for strokes. American Indians and Alaskan Natives have death rates 750 percent higher than whites for tuberculosis, 190 percent higher for diabetes, and 550 percent higher from alcoholism. The language of H.R. 2778 is also included in the Health Equity and Accountability Act of 2009, which was announced by the Tri-Caucus yesterday.
06.09.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 House Approves Cummings’ Witness Protection Bill Legislation would provide critical resources to protect witnesses from harm Washington, DC—Today, the House of Representatives voted to pass the Witness Security and Protection Grant Program Act of 2009 (H.R. 1741), legislation introduced by Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) to provide assistance to state and local witness protection and assistance programs. The bill was approved by a vote of 412-11. “Witness intimidation threatens the very fabric of our criminal justice system, allowing known murderers to walk our streets every day because we lack the evidence necessary to bring them to justice,” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation is critical to improving protection for state and local witnesses—and for our communities.” The legislation would provide $150 million over five years in competitive grants to state and local witness protection and assistance units for cases involving homicide, serious violent felonies, and serious drug offenses. Priority would be given to prosecutors in cities with an average of at least 100 homicides per year during the most recent five-year period. The bill would also allow state and local programs to receive technical assistance from the U.S. Marshals Service, which protects witnesses as part of the Federal Witness Security Program established in 1970. For the nearly forty years this program has been in effect, not a single witness who followed security procedures was harmed while participating. Cases involving the testimony of these witnesses result in an 89 percent conviction rate. “Every day, there is a new headline of a witness being threatened or killed—in rural and urban areas alike—and yet, our state and local witness protection programs are vastly underfunded and enjoy virtually no federal support,” Congressman Cummings said. “When law enforcement officials are forced to choose between funding investigations and funding witness protection services, nobody wins but the criminals.” According to the National Institute of Justice, more than half of the prosecutors in large jurisdictions find witness intimidation to be a serious problem. Smaller jurisdictions also feel the weight of this burden, with more than 43 percent of prosecutors in these districts finding witness intimidation to be a major problem. Prosecutors nationwide estimate that witness intimidation occurs in 75 to 100 percent of the violent crimes in some gang-dominated neighborhoods. “Each year City prosecutors address thousands of criminal cases affected by threats and intimidation. We are using every available resource and tool to build a successful prosecution so that witnesses are not silenced. Whether it is a serious child abuse case where an innocent child is threatened not to divulge a family secret or a murder case, we are doing our best to make sure that every witness feels safe so that we can achieve justice,” said Baltimore City State's Attorney Patricia C. Jessamy. "I am deeply grateful for Congressman Cummings' support and leadership on an issue that is so critically important to our citizens.” ###
06.03.2009	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, introduced H.R. 2651, the Maritime Workforce Development Act, which would create a recruitment, training, and student loan program to attract the next generation of workers to jobs in the maritime industry. “Many of the men and women who comprise our maritime industry will soon be entering retirement, and it is important that we have the tools and resources in place to bring in the next generation of mariners,” Congressman Cummings said. “The Maritime Workforce Development Act seeks to improve the current system and ensure that individuals seeking to enter or advance in the maritime field are able to afford tuition for training programs.” Mariners rarely enroll in traditional 2- or 4-year educational programs, instead taking frequent, multi-week courses designed to certify them for specific new qualifications. The unique structure of these programs is not easily served by existing loan programs, leaving many unable to afford the costly tuition. The Maritime Workforce Development Act would authorize $60 million over six years to create a maritime-focused student loan program through which individuals can receive up to $60,000 in loans over the course of their lifetime. Recipients of the loans would be required to maintain satisfactory progress and be required to repay their loans within ten years. Additionally, the bill would authorize $60 million over six years to enable the Department of Transportation to award grants to maritime training institutions for mariner recruitment, training, and retention. “The maritime industry is an essential component of our nation’s commerce and economy, and we cannot ignore the growing threat of a shortage in qualified maritime labor,” Congressman Cummings said. “We cannot allow this problem to continue to grow as a result of individuals being denied access to maritime training due to income levels, and H.R. 2651 takes the first step in ensuring that we don’t.” During a Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee hearing convened in October, 2007, to assess the extent of labor shortages in the maritime labor force, the Maritime Administration (MARAD) reported that many members of the workforce are at retirement age. MARAD indicated that the average age of a mariner with a Master’s license at that time was 51, while the average age of a Chief Engineer was 50. Figures have also shown that nearly 30 percent of those working in the inland towing industry would be eligible to retire in coming years. ###
05.26.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Statement on Nomination of Sotomayor Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s selection of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court: “I am extremely pleased by President Obama’s selection to replace Justice Souter on the U.S Supreme Court with Judge Sonia Sotomayor. Judge Sotomayor has consistently demonstrated a commitment to the Constitutional values on which this nation was founded, repeatedly showing an ability not only to understand the technicalities of the law, but also to understand how the law affects our lives practically. “Judge Sotomayor’s career serving in nearly every aspect of the law offers her a depth of experience and broad range of perspectives that will prove to be invaluable on our nation’s highest court. Her personal story, rising from poverty to become an esteemed judge who has received appointments from Democratic and Republican Presidents alike, is both an inspiration and a testament to the American Dream that is embedded in the fabric of our nation. “It is my hope that the Senate moves quickly to confirm Judge Sotomayor.” ###
05.21.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 21, 2009 Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Resignation of AIG Chairman & CEO Ed Liddy Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement in response to AIG’s announcement that Chairman & CEO Edward Liddy will be stepping down from his position: “For months, I have been urging Edward Liddy to step down from his role as Chairman and CEO of AIG. It became clear early on that Mr. Liddy was not the right fit for this position, and as time has progressed, he has continued to lose the confidence of the U.S. Congress and of the American people. This was the right move. “AIG has received $182.5 billion of taxpayer funds, and the American people now own a majority of the company. It is critical that the new Chairman and CEO of AIG be completely committed to transparency and accountability to ensure that the American people know what is happening with their money and when they will get it back. It is also important that the search for a new Chairman and CEO be conducted quickly but also deliberately to ensure that Mr. Liddy’s replacements have the necessary background, expertise, and character for their roles.” ###
05.20.2009	Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in response to the House Judiciary Committee reporting his witness protection bill, H.R. 1741, out of Committee: “Every single day we see evidence in the news that witness intimidation is getting worse, not better. It is more essential than ever that our state and local prosecutors and other law enforcement officials be equipped with the necessary resources to fight this epidemic that is poisoning our communities and the very fabric of our justice system. When our prosecutors are forced to choose between funding costly investigations and protecting witnesses, nobody wins but the criminals. “The Witness Security and Protection Grant Program Act will help our local law enforcement officials strengthen witness services units, sending a message to criminals that we will not be deterred by fear tactics like intimidation. “I am extremely grateful to Chairman Conyers, Chairman Scott, and the rest of the Judiciary Committee for joining me in taking a stand to protect the men and women who are courageous enough to testify against violent criminals, and I look forward to joining the rest of my colleagues in passing this legislation out of the full House as soon as possible.” ###
05.07.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, joined his colleagues in a vote of 300-114 to approve the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act (H.R. 1728) to stop predatory and irresponsible mortgage loan practices and get our economy back on track. "Today, we took a major step to restore our economy and bring common sense reform and consumer protection to the housing and financial markets," Congressman Cummings said. "This legislation requires unprecedented accountability and transparency in order to end the unscrupulous practices that lending institutions used to keep growing their profits at the expense of hardworking Americans." The legislation would require that lending institutions ensure that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold. Statistics show that many homeowners in the current mortgage crisis were steered into more expensive loans than they were qualified to receive. The bill would outlaw this practice and encourage the market to move back toward making fixed-rate, fully documented loans. The bill would also protect tenants who rent homes that enter foreclosure, ensuring that they receive proper notification and are given time to relocate. The bill also includes language authored by Congressman Cummings that requires creditors to explain their policies regarding the acceptance and application of partial payments. Lenders are further required to notify borrowers of all consequences of refinancing or purchasing a home equity loan, including the responsibility they may bear for any losses incurred in the event of a foreclosure. Congressman Cummings also worked to include a protection that would allow current state law to prevail if it carries stronger remedies for borrowers than federal law. "We have rushed to fix the crises on Wall Street brought on, in part, by scheming mortgage lending practices," Congressman Cummings said. "The time is long overdue for us to address the crises that individual families are facing all across the country as a result of these practices." ###
05.05.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Cummings sent the letter below to Mr. Neil Barofsky, Special Inspector General for the Troubled Assets Relief Program. May 5, 2009 The Honorable Neil M. Barofsky Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Assets Relief Program 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 1064 Washington, DC 20220 Dear Inspector General Barofsky: Thank you for your work investigating the American International Group, Inc. (AIG) counterparty payments. I appreciate the update you provided me on this audit on April 28. As we discussed, I am also concerned by the circumstances surrounding the current efforts to resuscitate the American automobile industry. The Department of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve have provided billions of dollars in working capital for General Motors (GM) and Chrysler LLC (Chrysler) while the two firms pursue financial restructuring solutions. While the assistance to Chrysler terminated at the end of April, GM has approximately three weeks left to complete its restructuring before the working capital ends. The Chrysler situation was particularly troubling. The company had some $10 billion in outstanding debt that was due to the United Auto Workers Retiree Health Plan. Chrysler and the union were able to negotiate an agreement that modified worker contracts and gave the union an equity position in the restructured auto company. However, in addition to the contributions owed to the union health plan, Chrysler also carried additional debt in the amount of $6.9 billion. Creditors included JPMorgan Chase & Co., The Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley, and several smaller banks and hedge funds. Perella Weinberg Partners, Oppenheimer and Stairway Capital Management have been identified thus far as hedge fund creditors. As you are well aware, Chrysler recently filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, though a deal is ostensibly in place to merge Chrysler with the Italian automaker Fiat SpA, pending court approval. Until the filing occurred, eleventh hour hopes persisted that Chrysler could reach an agreement with the creditors that provided the $6.9 billion. While differing accounts exist as to how the actual negotiations played out, the fact remains that Chrysler was not able to reach an agreement with its creditors to the $6.9 billion. As an issuer of credit default swaps, it is plausible that AIG had issued swaps on the debt of the American auto companies. We know that the collateral calls and threat of payouts triggered by an AIG bankruptcy forced the federal government to commit up to $182.5 billion to the insurance giant. We also know that many holders of AIG credit default swaps were apparently compensated at 100 percent of par value in order to retire the swaps they held and enable the purchase of the underlying securities (the counterparty payments). Finally, the recipients of the counterparty payments in some cases were the same firms that held auto industry debt. The Wall Street Journal ran a story on April 30, 2009 detailing the objections identified by some creditors: Bank-debt holders, many of them hedge funds or distressed debt funds, voted against the latest deal for various reasons, ranging from financial interests to philosophical ones. Some said their funds had bigger positions in Ford Motor Co. or General Motors Corp. and could benefit by a Chrysler bankruptcy and the production capacity that may eliminate. Some funds may also have credit-default swaps on Chrysler bank debt that pay out in the event of a bankruptcy[1]. These circumstances could create tremendous potential for abuse of government assistance to AIG. Knowing that AIG swap counterparties have previously been paid with government funds without being compelled to take any discount or “haircut”, if auto creditors had purchased swaps on their debt, they may have had a perverse incentive to allow Chrysler to fail. By not negotiating down the claims or accepting a debt-for-equity arrangement, the auto creditors could collect any credit default swap payments triggered by a Chrysler bankruptcy. Essentially, these creditors could stand to potentially benefit more from a Chrysler bankruptcy than from a restructuring out of court. While the issues were described in the context of the Chrysler bankruptcy, I believe that potential conflicts could have existed regarding the debt of each Chrysler and GM. Accordingly, I respectfully request that you address the following questions: Did AIG issue credit default swaps on debt securities of automobile companies? Did creditors to GM or Chrysler hold credit default swaps on the debt? If so, were these AIG-issued swaps? How many creditors to the auto companies also received payments as AIG counterparties? What obligations are owed by the swap issuers to the holders of auto debt in the event of a bankruptcy or other default event? What was the extent of the potential for abuse of taxpayer funds based on the scenario laid out above? Thank you for your continued advocacy on behalf of the American taxpayers and for your examination of these issues. Please contact Martin Levine in my office at (202) 225-4741 with any questions. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress [1] “Chrysler Chapter 11 is Imminent” by Neil King, Jr and Jeffrey McCracken. Wall Street Journal online, April 30, 2009. https://online.wsj.com/article/SB124102375931669205.html?mg=com-wsj. ###
04.29.2009	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) joined his colleagues in passing the Conference Report for the 2010 Budget Resolution, an economic blueprint to put our nation back on track and lay the foundation for lasting prosperity and economic growth. The bill passed by a vote of 233-193. “Today marks the end of the Era of Irresponsibility under President Bush and the Republican-led Congress that turned the record $5.6 trillion surplus under President Clinton into a record $5.8 trillion deficit,” Congressman Cummings said. “This budget reflects President Obama’s plan to get our economy moving again, making our nation stronger and giving American families the tools to achieve prosperity.” The budget includes $1.7 trillion in tax cuts for middle class families and will cut the deficit by nearly two-thirds by 2010. It also makes an historic commitment to veterans, increasing funding for veterans’ health care and other services by nearly 12 percent. Additionally, the budget makes strategic investments in education, health care reform, and clean energy jobs to jumpstart the economy and keep America globally competitive for years to come. It creates a deficit-neutral reserve fund for health care reform as well as a College Affordability Initiative and builds on the Recovery Act’s historic investments in Title I, Special Education, and Pell grants, as well as the significant funding and tax incentives to invest in clean energy and energy efficiency. “For the first time in years, we have an honest budget that invests in our nation’s future and restores fiscal responsibility,” Congressman Cummings said. “President Obama and the Democratic-led Congress have once again followed through on our promises to put our country back on track.” ###
04.27.2009	Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in response to the arrest of five House members during the Direct Action on Darfur rally this morning outside the Sudanese embassy: “I completely support the efforts of my colleagues this morning in protesting the atrocities that have been occurring in the Darfur region of Sudan. For too long, the people of Darfur have been subjected to violence and abuse that we cannot even begin to imagine, resulting in hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of families being forced to flee from their homes. “It is critical that we hold the Sudanese government to its word in measures introduced last Friday to ‘revitalize and strengthen the delivery of humanitarian services in Darfur,’ particularly in light of the expulsion last month of 13 international NGO’s and the government-forced closing of 3 Sudanese NGO’s. I am fully confident in the abilities President Obama’s appointment of Scott Gration as the U.S. Special Envoy to Sudan, and it is my hope that this Administration will at last bring an end to the gross violence taking place in Darfur. We cannot allow this genocide to continue.” ###
04.21.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 21, 2009 Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Requests Congressional Hearing on AIG Denying Claims for Civilians Injured in Iraq, Afghanistan Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter (text below) to Domestic Policy Subcommittee Chairman Dennis J. Kucinich (D-Ohio) requesting a hearing to examine a recent investigation by the Los Angeles Times, ABC News, and ProPublica. According to the investigation, AIG and other insurance companies have been unnecessarily denying and prolonging serious health insurance claims of civilian contractors who were injured or killed while participating in U.S. combat activities in Iraq and Afghanistan. “The men and women who sacrifice their lives to protect our nation on the battlefield should be able to return to their families without having to wage another battle here at home to receive the health care they are more than entitled to receive,” Congressman Cummings said. “I was absolutely disgusted to read about the atrocities that individuals are being forced to endure as they attempt to get treatment for the injuries they received while serving our country.” Under the Defense Base Act (DBA), contractors and subcontractors are required to purchase for employees working overseas insurance that covers medical care and disability payments for on-the-job injuries, as well as death benefits to the families of employees who are killed on the job. The costs of the insurance are built into the price of the contract between the contractor and the federal government. The Department of Labor is designated by the law to administer the requirements of the DBA but has been unable to do an adequate job do to underfunding and increased claim volume. Further, the Department of Defense has not adopted a single-contract process for retaining an insurer under DBA, allowing insurance companies to inflate premium costs. “There are clearly serious deficiencies in the health coverage of civilian employees who have been injured while working overseas to keep us safe here at home—costing not only the men and women who are being refused coverage for the treatment they need, but also for the American taxpayers who are footing the bill for their coverage,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is important that the Congress investigate this issue and take appropriate action to fix these problems.” Specifically, Congressman Cummings would like a hearing to examine the DBA insurance practices at AIG, which handles the bulk of these claims, as well as the Department of Labor’s inability to enforce the requirements of DBA and the Pentagon’s development and implementation of the strategy required under the a provision included in the 2009 Duncan Hunter Defense Authorization Act to minimize insurance costs for the DOD and contractors. The Text of the Letter: April 21, 2009 The Honorable Dennis J. Kucinich Chairman, Subcommittee on Domestic Policy Oversight and Government Reform Committee 2445 Rayburn House Office Building Dear Chairman Kucinich: The Los Angeles Times, in conjunction with ABC News and ProPublica, reported on Friday, April 17, 2009, that the health insurance claims of civilian contractors who participated in military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan have been denied with unsettling frequency.[1] I write to request that the Domestic Policy Subcommittee of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform hold a hearing to examine the issues detailed in the Los Angeles Times, ABC News,and ProPublica investigation. Per the Defense Base Act (DBA), 42 U.S.C. 1651-1654, contractors and subcontractors are required to purchase workers’ compensation insurance for employees working overseas. The insurance purchased must cover medical care and disability payments for workers injured in the performance of job duties; it must also provide death benefits for the families of employees killed on the job. The costs of insurance premiums paid by the contracting firms are then built into the price of the contract between the contractor and the Federal Government. Right now, there are more than 31,000 current and continuing civilian injury claims, as well as more than 1,400 claims for death benefits. The American International Group, Inc. (AIG) and other insurers have received some $1.5 billion in premium payments, while paying out $900 million in compensation and expenses. According to the article, AIG is the primary insurer retained by contracting firms, handling some 90 percent of civilian claims filed in the war zones in 2007. The article goes on to describe the difficulty that claimants have encountered in receiving benefits for medical care and disability payments, as well as the challenges faced by the families of those killed in receiving death benefits. From prosthetic limbs to treatment for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, the claimants have faced a “reject first and investigate later” mentality from the insurers.[2] In order to receive their legally mandated compensation, claimants often have to resort to mediation or litigation. The Department of Labor (DOL) is the administrator of the DBA by statute. However, the article notes that because of underfunding and increasing claim volume, DOL has been unable to adequately enforce that: (1) contractors provide the mandatory coverage required under the DBA; and (2) insurers process the claims fairly and consistently. Not only have claims been denied unfairly, but the contractors and insurers are able to operate with relative impunity. The Department of Defense (DOD), unlike the State Department and the Agency for International Development, has not adopted a competitive single-contract process for retaining an insurer under the DBA. Therefore, insurers are free to demand their own premium costs from contractors, with the taxpayers ultimately footing the bill. Further, in a September 28, 2007 report, the U.S. Army Audit Agency found AIG premiums to be “unreasonably high.” As you are aware, the full committee on Oversight and Government Reform held a hearing on the DBA on May 15, 2008. The hearing examined taxpayer costs under the DBA, as well as the Pentagon’s failure to put appropriate controls on the program. As a result, the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for FY2009 (P.L. 110-417) included a provision requiring the DOD to adopt an acquisition strategy that minimizes insurance costs for both the DOD and for contractors. The strategy was to include a competitive marketplace for the selection of insurers. Despite our efforts to include the above constraints on the 2009 Defense authorization, the status quo remains. Regrettably, those most in need of assistance – the civilian employees injured while assisting our military – continue to face unnecessary delay and harm. While AIG is not the only insurer providing this coverage, that firm handles the bulk of the claims. Over the last few months, AIG has engaged in a pattern of deception and reckless behavior with respect to taxpayer funds, and I am deeply disturbed that the firm may be withholding any payments contractually due to civilian contractors injured in Iraq or the families of civilian contractors killed in Iraq. As mentioned at the outset of this letter, I am requesting a hearing of the Domestic Policy Subcommittee that could potentially examine the DBA insurance practices at AIG, DOL’s inability to enforce the requirements of the DBA, and the Pentagon’s development and implementation of the strategy required under the 2009 National Defense Authorization Act. I thank you for your continued hard work to address the needs of all Americans, and I look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress ### [1] FORGOTTEN WARRIORS; Injured civilians battle to get care; U.S. contractors wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan face delays and high costs from insurance firms. Los Angeles Times, April 17, 2009, Page A-1. [2] Id.
04.21.2009	Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to the release of the quarterly report by the Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP): “When the Congress passed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, we understood that restoring our economy would require unprecedented programs and initiatives, and we created the office of SIGTARP to ensure that these programs are run effectively and efficiently, with transparency and accountability. “Mr. Barofsky has done an exceptional job analyzing the various economic recovery programs that have been created over the past few months, and his commitment to protecting the best interests of the American taxpayer is clear. SIGTARP’s quarterly report identifies vulnerabilities in several programs intended to get our economy back on track, and I am confident that Secretary Geithner will carefully consider Mr. Barofsky’s recommendations as he addresses these concerns. “With our new President came a new era of transparency, ethics, and accountability, and I am confident that this Administration is committed to maintaining the high standards it has set. By strengthening these programs, we are strengthening the taxpayers’ investment in our economy and strengthening our chance for a profitable return.” ###
04.16.2009	Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Board of Visitors at the U.S. Naval Academy and former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, released the statement below applauding the Naval Academy for its recruitment efforts, which resulted in a 50 percent jump in this year’s applicants: “America’s greatest strength as a nation derives not from the great weaponry of our military, but from our diversity and our mutual respect for one another. Diversity is not a problem or a challenge that must be managed, but a promise that exists in every single individual that can only be cultivated and fully realized through our collective commitment to assure fair treatment to everyone. “Two years ago, the U.S. Naval Academy expanded its outreach efforts to ensure that its student body reflected the diversity of our nation’s population at large. Through the new efforts of the Office of Diversity and the Office of Admissions, the Academy has seen this year’s number of applications soar, and it will be admitting the most diverse class in its history. “Our military service academies admit and train the very best of the best to lead our nation’s armed forces, and it is critical that recruitment efforts do not exclude any populations. I applaud the recruitment efforts of the Naval Academy, and I hope that its success will be replicated in the future by the other service academies and the U.S. military. By ensuring that our entire population is represented in our military and military service academies, we are building a force that is strengthened by its diversity and commitment to serve our entire nation.” ###
04.16.2009	Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to a Washington Examiner story that AIG CEO Edward Liddy owns $3 million of stock in Goldman Sachs, which was the top recipient of AIG’s counterparty payments that have been disclosed to date: “I am extremely concerned by recent media reports that AIG CEO Edward Liddy owns more than $3 million of stock in Goldman Sachs, which topped the list of companies that received billions of dollars in counterparty payments from AIG. Regardless of whether or not Mr. Liddy is acting in the best interest of AIG or of his stock in Goldman, even the appearance of conflict of interest is a reason for alarm. “One of the most important components in restoring our nation’s economy is confidence. Taxpayers must have confidence in how their money is being spent, and investors must have confidence in the markets. Because AIG has received more federal aid than any other company, it is critical that the company’s operations and chief officers have the confidence of the Congress and the American people. “The actions of CEO Edward Liddy have consistently eroded the confidence of myself and many of my constituents in his ability to lead AIG. Mr. Liddy has often pointed to his dollar-a-year salary as evidence of his pure intentions, but his neglect to mention the bonus he is eligible to receive next year, combined with the $3.2 million he owns in Goldman stock cause his argument to lose credibility. “For months, I have been calling on Mr. Liddy to resign from his position at the helm of AIG, and in light of the new information about his stock holdings at Goldman, I renew that call today. It is critical that we have full transparency and accountability from all parties who owe a fiduciary duty to the American taxpayers.” ###
04.08.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Seizure of Maersk Alabama Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the following statement in response to the seizure this morning of the U.S.-flagged container ship, Maersk Alabama, which was carrying relief cargo to Kenya for the United Nations; 21 Americans who were on board the ship are currently being held hostage: “My deepest thoughts and prayers go out to the crew of the Maersk Alabama, as well as their families, as they endure this difficult time. It is my hope that this situation will be resolved as quickly and as safely as possible, and the DOD has my full support and confidence in its ability to handle this delicate situation. “Piracy in the high seas is a very serious problem that threatens the lives of innocent mariners and poses a challenge to the shipping industry during a deepening economic recession. With more than 50 pirate attacks this year off the Somali coast—including at least six commercial vessels this past week alone—it is clear that the problem is rapidly getting worse. “The U.S. Coast Guard and Navy have been crucial in preventing and intervening in pirate attacks off the Horn of Africa, as have the contributions of the international community to patrol this region. Unfortunately, the pirates have responded by adapting to the heightened security, spreading their range to extend further out to sea. “I convened a hearing in February to examine international piracy on the high seas, which reaffirmed the complexity of this issue. Even with the best system in place to capture and detain pirates, we will never fully be able to eradicate piracy if we ignore the underlying problems leading individuals down this road. We absolutely must unite as an international community to help bring stability to Somalia, where political and economic conditions have fueled the increase in pirate attacks in the Horn of Africa region. “We cannot allow our focus to shift away from the critical importance of combating piracy after the Maersk Alabama incident is resolved and its crew has safely returned home. Although this is the first U.S.-flagged ship to be seized by pirates, the threat of future attacks will remain as long as the problems in the Horn of Africa continue to fester.” ###
04.06.2009	Washington, D.C. —Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, sent letters to fourteen mortgage service companies in response to overwhelming complaints from constituents in Maryland’s 7th Congressional District. Specifically, there have been a significant number of complaints regarding: · Companies’ refusal to accept partial mortgage payments while homeowners are behind in their mortgages and/or await a decision on a modification · Unnecessary delays and poor communication during the modification process · Disrespectful and unacceptable treatment of homeowners seeking a modification Congressman Cummings urged the companies to support the goals of President Obama and the U.S. Congress to help American stay in their homes during these troubling economic times by treating these homeowners with common decency, and he requested that each company designate a specific employee to work directly with his Congressional staff to address the issues outlined in the letter. A copy of one of the letters is below. The body text is the same for each institution receiving a copy. Recipients: Wells Fargo; Citi Mortgage; Wachovia Loan; American Home Mortgage; Indy Mac; Chase Home JP Morgan; GMAC; Northwest Savings Bank; Citi Financial Services; Aurora Services, A Lehman Brothers Company; Countrywide Mortgage; EverHome Mortgage Company; Eastern Bank; First Horizon Bank Text of the Letter: Mr. Alvaro G. de Molina Chief Executive Officer GMAC 3451 Hammond Avenue Waterloo, IA 50702 Dear Mr. de Molina: Through the efforts of President Barack Obama and the U.S. House of Representatives, the U.S. government has made clear its intent to provide relief for at-risk homeowners and protect the ability of responsible taxpayers to own a home. In my district, there are many conscientious, hard-working people who are struggling to hold on to their homes. These are not speculators or investors, and the homes they are struggling to hold on to are not their second homes – and often the only home they have ever owned. My staff has been working with constituents to help them navigate the steps to fend off default or foreclosure. However, in dealing with the mortgage servicers, the hurdles encountered by my constituents and staff are, in my opinion, both regrettable and avoidable. First, when a homeowner is requesting a mortgage modification, we find that the process takes too long. Borrowers have been told that the modification process will take between 45 and 90 days to complete, due to the number of applicants. While waiting, borrowers often hear nothing from their servicer and sink further into debt. In cases in which foreclosure proceedings have been stayed to attempt a modification, due to the lack of communication, the foreclosure process may be even restarted before the borrower is notified of the outcome of the modification process. I urge you to ensure that there are policies in place to prevent unnecessary delay and ensure open communication with applicants. Second, my staff and constituents tell me that a borrower who is behind in his or her mortgage may not be able to submit a partial payment while awaiting a decision on a modification. I find this absolutely unacceptable and cannot fathom why a servicer cannot accept a partial payment. In some cases a borrower may not have been able to make payments, but circumstances have changed for them and they are now trying to catch up. The decision to reject anything less than a full payment flies in the face of everything the President and Congress are working to achieve. As a result I am exploring legislation to address this issue. Finally, I’ve been told that my constituents are frequently being treated like second class citizens. Communications with the mortgage personnel have been fraught with rudeness, disrespect, and callous insensitivity. Frequently, the borrowers cannot get a professional response without a call from my staff on the borrower’s behalf. These are my constituents and your consumers – and they deserve better. It should not take a follow-up call from the office of a U.S. Congressman for a consumer to be treated like a human being. I hope you will take pains to address this issue. The President has asked all of us – from Wall Street to community banks to individual Americans – to make sacrifices for the greater good of the country. The overall economic health of the nation depends on all of us making such an effort. Frankly, what I ask of you now is not sacrifice, rather just common decency. As I mentioned at the outset, Congress is committed to keeping Americans in their homes. I hope institutions like yours will work with us as we progress toward our goal. I cannot understate the urgency in my request. My constituents are losing their homes to foreclosure on a daily basis. I ask that you designate a contact person with whom my staff can work to address these issues and have this individual contact Martin Levine in my office at (202) 225-4741 no later than Monday, April 13. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress
04.03.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement applauding Neil M. Barofsky, Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, for initiating an audit of AIG in response to a request from twenty-seven members of Congress led by Congressman Cummings: “Last week, my colleagues and I sent a request to TARP IG Neil Barofsky requesting an investigation into AIG’s counterparty transactions, specifically looking at what kind of assessments were made of the health and total exposure risks of the counterparties and whether or not AIG made any attempts to renegotiate its contracts with these companies. “I was very pleased to receive a response from Mr. Barofsky informing me that his office has opened an audit to further investigate this situation. AIG has been the largest recipient of taxpayer assistance during the current economic crisis, and the American people now essentially own this company, holding nearly 80% of its equity. As such, it is critical that we ensure that AIG is spending this money with taxpayers’ best interests at heart. The American people deserve to know how their money is being spent. “Further, I applaud Mr. Barofsky for responding to our inquiry with such immediacy. He has consistently demonstrated his commitment to his role in ensuring that transparency and accountability stay firmly rooted in the government’s efforts to revive and sustain the American economy. I look forward to learning what this audit reveals.” ###
04.02.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) was joined by fifty-one of his Democratic and Republican colleagues in sending a letter (text below) urging the House Appropriations Subcommittee for Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies to commit to doubling the budget of the National Cancer Institute over the next five years. Signatories: Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Shelley Berkley (D-Nev.), Howard L. Berman (D-Calif.), Judy Biggert (R-Ill.), Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-Guam), Rick Boucher (D-Va.), Bruce L. Braley (D-Iowa), Ginny Brown-Waite (R-Fla.), Michael Capuano (D-Mass.), Russ Carnahan (D-Mo.), Christopher P. Carney (D-Penn.), Donna M. Christensen (D-V.I.), Yvette D. Clarke (D-N.Y.), Howard Coble (R-N.C.), Jim Costa (D-Calif.), Danny K. Davis (D-Ill.), Diana DeGette (D-Colo.), Bob Etheridge (D-N.C.), Elton Gallegly (D-Calif.), Maurice D. Hinchey (D-N.Y.), Mazie K. Hirono (D-Hawaii), Dale E. Kildee (D-Mich.), Dennis J. Kucinich (D-Ohio), Stephen F. Lynch (D-Mass.), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-N.Y.), Carolyn McCarthy (D-N.Y.), James P. McGovern (D-Mass.), Alan Grayson (D-Fla.), Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Dennis Moore (D-Kan.), James P. Moran (D-Va.), Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.), James L. Oberstar (D-Minn.), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-N.J.), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-N.J.), Donald M. Payne (D-N.J.), Chellie Pingree (D-Maine), Adam Putnam (R-Fla.), Nick J. Rahall, II (D-W.V.), Charles B. Rangel (D-N.Y.), Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), John P. Sarbanes (D-Md.), Joe Sestak (D-Penn.), Adam Smith (D-Wash.), Pete Stark (D-Calif.), Edolphus Towns (D-N.Y.), Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Timothy J. Walz (D-Minn.), Lynn C. Woolsey (D-Calif.), John A. Yarmuth (D-Ky.) Text of the Letter: The Honorable David Obey Chairman House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies H-128 Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Todd Tiahrt Ranking Member House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Obey and Ranking Member Tiahrt: In 1971, President Richard Nixon initiated the war against cancer with the signing of the National Cancer Act. Nearly four decades later, we continue to wage battle against not one disease and one cure, but more than 200 types of cancer with the possibility of infinite individualized cures and treatments. Now is the time to renew our government’s federal commitment to find a cure in our time, a pledge that is shared by President Barack Obama. Thanks to strong research programs created by Congress, the average five-year survival rate for all cancers is now 66 percent, and there are even a few cancers for which survival is more than 80 percent. While for each cancer there are significant areas of research to pursue, the greatest challenges remain for those cancers with the highest mortality rates. In fact, half of the 565,650 cancer deaths expected in 2008 will be caused by eight forms of cancer with five-year survival rates of less than 50 percent: ovarian (45%); brain (35%); myeloma (35%); stomach (24%); esophageal (16%); lung (15%); liver (11%); and pancreatic (5%). Part of the problem is that there has historically been little research focused on these cancers; a problem that has been further compounded due to the recent decreasing National Institutes of Health and National Cancer Institute (NCI) budgets. We ask the Appropriations Subcommittee for Labor, Health and Human Services and Education and Related Agencies (LHHS) to commit to doubling the budget of the NCI over the next five years by increasing NCI funding to $6 billion in FY 2010, an increase of 20 percent over FY 2009. Even at this level, our request is still more than $1 billion less than what the NCI has requested in its FY 2010 professional judgment budget request. We are supportive of the NCI request, yet sensitive to the Subcommittee’s challenge to do more with fewer resources. Investing in medical research should be viewed as a critical component of any health system reform effort. Clinical trials provide the basis for informed health care decision making by our country’s health care providers. When health care professionals provide evidence-based care, patient quality improves and cost savings become possible. Our investment in cancer research begins with the positive impact it will have on our fight against cancer and extends to our state and local economies, while indirectly aiding efforts to improve health care quality, efficiency and affordability. For all the progress we have made, we still lack a solid grip on the basic science of cancer. We are at a real turning point for cancer research, but whether we actually turn that corner will depend on available resources. As you develop FY 2010 appropriations legislation, we ask that you consider the wide-ranging positive impact of a $6 billion allocation to the NCI. We appreciate your consideration of our request. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings, et al. ###
04.02.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in response to the nomination of Judge Andre M. Davis to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit: “I first met Judge Davis more than thirty years ago at the University of Maryland Law School, where the two of us were students, and I was as impressed by his brilliance then as I am today. Judge Davis has always been extremely competent, both as an attorney and a judge. He has consistently rendered very fair and thoughtful decisions, and he will undoubtedly be a significant contributor to the U.S. Fourth Circuit Court. I will do everything in my power to support his confirmation, and I applaud President Barack Obama for picking such an outstanding candidate for this nomination.” ###
04.01.2009	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-7) announced that approximately $67.7 million in emergency education funding has been released for schools in the 7th Congressional District to help save jobs and maintain programs for low-income students and students with disabilities. The funding is part of $26.5 billion in funding announced today for Title I and IDEA programs nationwide. “Education is a right, not a luxury, and it is critical that our schools have the funding necessary to ensure that every child—regardless of income level or physical abilities—has an equal opportunity to access a quality education,” Congressman Cummings said. “The emergency funding announced today will remove one more roadblock to our children’s futures.” Nationwide, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provides $13 billion in Title I funds, which help low-income students, and $13.5 billion in IDEA funds, which help students with disabilities. The funding announced today is the first of two installments of direct funding for Title I and IDEA programs that school districts will receive under the Recovery Act. The second installment will be released this fall. In the 7th Congressional District, the funding announced today will be distributed as follows, according to estimates from the Department of Education and Congressional Research Service: Baltimore City Public School System: $27.1 million for Title I, $14.5 million for IDEA Baltimore County Public School System: $8.7 million for Title I, $12.6 million for IDEA Howard County Public Schools: $4.8 million for IDEA “Every day, Marylanders reap the benefits of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—whether through job creation, transportation projects, or increased funding to aid our ailing schools,” Congressman Cummings said. “I have no doubt that this piece of President Obama’s plan to jumpstart our economy will be successful.”
03.26.2009	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) introduced the Witness Security and Protection Grant Program Act of 2009, H.R. 1741 to provide assistance to state and local witness protection and assistance programs. “Witness intimidation is not just a plot line dreamed up on The Wire; the threat is very real, and the reality is horrific,” Congressman Cummings said. “Violent retaliation against witnesses and informants threatens the very fabric of our criminal justice system—and of our communities.” The legislation would provide grants to state and local witness protection and assistance units to be used in cases involving homicide, serious violent felonies, and serious drug offenses. The grants would be awarded to prosecutors in cities with an average of at least 100 homicides per year during the most recent five-year period. The bill would also allow state and local programs to receive technical assistance from the U.S. Marshals Service, which protects witnesses as part of the Federal Witness Security Program established in 1970. For the nearly forty years this program has been in effect, not a single witness who followed security procedures was harmed while participating. Cases involving the testimony of these witnesses result in an 89 percent conviction rate. “Every day, there is a new headline of a witness being threatened or killed—in rural and urban areas alike—and yet, our state and local witness protection programs are vastly underfunded and enjoy virtually no federal support,” Congressman Cummings said. “When law enforcement officials are forced to choose between funding investigations or funding costly but necessary witness protection services, nobody wins but the criminals.” According to the National Institute of Justice, more than half of the prosecutors in large jurisdictions find witness intimidation to be a serious problem. Smaller jurisdictions also feel the weight of this burden, with more than 43 percent of prosecutors in these districts finding witness intimidation to be a major problem. Prosecutors nationwide estimate that witness intimidation occurs in 75 to 100 percent of the violent crimes in some gang-dominated neighborhoods. “Known murderers continue to walk our streets every day because we lack the evidence necessary to bring them to justice,” Congressman Cummings said. “By improving the protection for state and local witnesses, we come one step closer to keeping our neighborhoods safe.” ###
03.26.2009	Washington, D.C. — This morning, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) was joined by 26 of his colleagues in sending a letter (text below) to TARP IG Neil M. Barofsky requesting an investigation into AIG’s counterparty payments. Specifically, the Members of Congress want to know what kind of assessments (if any) were made of the health and total exposure risks of the counterparties, as well as whether or not AIG made any attempts to renegotiate the contracts. Signatories to the Letter: Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Joe Baca (D-Calif.), Robert A. Brady (D-Pa.), G.K. Butterfield (D-N.C.), Christopher P. Carney (D-Pa.), Yvette D. Clarke (D-N.Y.), John D. Dingell (D-Mich.), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.), Maurice D. Hinchey (D-N.Y.), Tim Holden (D-Pa.), Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio), Mary Jo Kilroy (D-Ohio), Dennis J. Kucinich (D-Ohio), John Lewis (D-Ga.), Eric Massa (D-N.Y.), Kendrick B. Meek (D-Fla.), George Miller (D-Calif.), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.), James L. Oberstar (D-Minn.), Donald M. Payne (D-N.J.), Paul Tonko (D-N.Y.), Charles B. Rangel (D-N.Y.), Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), John F. Tierney (D-Mass.), Timothy J. Walz (D-Minn.), Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) Text of the Letter: March 25, 2009 The Honorable Neil M. Barofsky Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Assets Relief Program 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 1064 Washington, DC 20220 Dear Inspector General Barofsky: After reviewing the documents released by American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”) regarding the identity of counterparties to certain transactions who received taxpayer “bailout funds,” we find that they raised more questions than they answered. Congress and the American people were told that the AIG bailout was necessary to limit systemic risk across the global economy. Using bailout funds, AIG in turn paid various debts to the counterparties to its various transactions. Apparently, all claims were paid at 100 percent of face value, including swap-related claims. We would like to know if assessments were made of the health and total exposure risks of counterparties, such as Goldman Sachs (which, for example, claimed it had no material exposure to AIG), Barclays, Deutsche Bank and others. If such assessments were made, by whom were they made and what were the criteria guiding the assessments? Further, was any attempt made to renegotiate and close out these contracts with “haircuts?” If not, why not? What was the benefit of the decision to pay 100 percent of face value to the American taxpayers who provided the bailout funds and how did it support the goal of ensuring the stability of the economic system? In essence, we would like to know if the AIG counterparty payments, as made, were in the best interests of the taxpayers who provided the funding and in the best interests of re-establishing long-term economic stability. SIGTARP was created to investigate the uses of TARP funding, and AIG is among the largest recipients of TARP funding, and the largest recipient of government aid during the crisis. We believe that an investigation into the AIG counterparty payments is a critical component of the oversight effort. As the holder of nearly 80% of the equity in AIG, the U.S. government has a fiduciary obligation to manage this investment in a prudent manner, and your role is crucial to the protection of the taxpayers’ rights as AIG’s “shareholders.” We look forward to your response to the above questions. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings, et al. ###
03.25.2009	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent letters to Committee Chairman Edolphus Towns (D-N.Y.) and Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) and to the Inspectors General of the Troubled Assets Relief Program and U.S. Treasury requesting investigations into inconsistencies between information that American International Group, Inc., (AIG) CEO Edward Liddy provided during a Congressional hearing and information the company’s spokesperson provided to the media the following day (text of the letters below). During a March 18, 2009, hearing before the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government Sponsored Enterprises, Congressman Cummings asked Mr. Liddy, who was testifying under oath, “How much in bonuses—not retention payments—have you paid to AIG employees in 2008, and what was the range of the bonuses?” Mr. Liddy responded, “I think it might have been in the range of $9 million.” However, a March 20, 2009, story in Politico by Eamon Javers states that AIG spokesman Nick Ashooh “says that his firm paid 2008 bonuses outside the controversial payouts to the AIG Financial Products unit of the company. Those payments amounted to about $120 million to a pool of more than 6,000 employees.” Alarmed by the stark difference between the $9 million in bonuses that Mr. Liddy testified went to all AIG employees and the $120 million that Mr. Ashooh told Politico went to non-FP employees, Congressman Cummings contacted the Politico reporter to ensure that the figures were reported accurately to reflect traditional bonuses and did not include retention payments. The reporter confirmed that the figures were for bonuses—not retention payments. “For months, Mr. Liddy has been less than forthcoming in his responses to inquiries from my office, and we have witnessed a pattern of inconsistencies in the information that his company has provided,” Congressman Cummings said. “Given the taxpayers’ $180 billion investment in AIG, as well as the role this company plays in maintaining global financial stability, it is important that we have accurate information about how money is being spent.” Text of the letter to Inspectors General Barofsky and Thorson: March 25, 2009 The Honorable Neil M. Barofsky Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Assets Relief Program 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 1064 Washington, DC 20220 The Honorable Eric Thorson Inspector General Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20220 Dear Inspectors General Barofsky and Thorson: While the country discusses the retention payments paid by American International Group, Inc. (AIG) to the employees of its Financial Products division, I want to ensure that this outrage does not obscure important details. On Wednesday, March 18, Mr. Edward Liddy, Chairman and Chief Executive of AIG, spent the day before the Financial Services Committee. At the end of the day, in response to my questions, Mr. Liddy testified, under oath, that AIG had paid out $9 million in bonuses – not retention payments – to employees of AIG. However, on Friday, March 20, a story by Eamon Javers ran in Politico in which AIG spokesman Nick Ashooh stated that AIG paid bonuses of $120 million. Upon reading this figure, which sharply contrasts with the $9 million figure Mr. Liddy gave me under oath, I contacted Mr. Javers to request clarification. Mr. Javers confirmed that the $120 million applied to 2008 bonuses – not retention payments – paid to AIG employees. In light of the taxpayers’ enormous $180 billion investment in AIG for the sake of global financial stability, AIG’s use of these funds must be reviewed with the utmost scrutiny. Since the initial federal financial injection into the private markets, I have tried to get credible information from Mr. Liddy on the amount of bonuses and retention payments doled out with taxpayer money. I have found his responses inconsistent at best, and I remain concerned. I appreciate the work your offices have done, and respectfully request that you investigate the inconsistencies between Mr. Liddy’s testimony and the statements made to Politico by AIG spokesman Mr. Ashooh and provide clarification on the true amount of bonuses paid to AIG employees in 2008. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress March 25, 2009 The Honorable Edolphus Towns Chairman, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 2157 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Darrell Issa Ranking Member, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform B350A Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Towns and Ranking Member Issa: I am pleased that the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform will hold a hearing on American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Continued daylight and transparency are essential to holding AIG accountable to their taxpayer shareholders. On Wednesday, March 18, Mr. Edward Liddy, Chairman and Chief Executive of AIG, testified before the Financial Services Committee. At the end of the day, in response to my questions, Mr. Liddy testified, under oath, that AIG had paid out $9 million in bonuses – not retention payments – to employees of AIG. However, on Friday, March 20, a story by Eamon Javers ran in Politico in which AIG spokesman Nick Ashooh stated that AIG paid bonuses of $120 million. Upon reading this figure, which sharply contrasts with the $9 million figure Mr. Liddy gave me under oath, I contacted Mr. Javers to request clarification. Mr. Javers confirmed that the $120 million applied to 2008 bonuses – not retention payments – paid to AIG employees. This is the latest in a series of instances where Mr. Liddy has been less than forthcoming in response to questioning from myself and other Members. Further, it underscores the need for Mr. Liddy to testify in front of the Committee and clarify the past inconsistencies that I have outlined for you in previous correspondence. In light of the taxpayers’ enormous $180 billion investment in AIG for the sake of global financial stability, AIG’s use of these funds must be reviewed with the utmost scrutiny. Again, I appreciate your intention to hold a hearing on AIG, and respectfully renew my request that you invite Mr. Liddy to the proceedings. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress Cc: The Honorable Paul E. Kanjorski Chairman, Capital Markets Subcommittee Financial Services Committee The Honorable Scott Garrett Ranking Member, Capital Markets Subcommittee Financial Services Committee ###
03.24.2009	Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the statement below following this morning’s Subcommittee hearing examining the Coast Guard’s Acquisition Process: “The first hearing I convened during my tenure as the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation two years ago examined the mismanagement of the Coast Guard’s $24 billion Deepwater program intended to modernize the service’s surface and air assets. As confirmed at this morning’s hearing, the Coast Guard has taken significant steps since 2007 to improve the oversight and management of its acquisition programs and to position itself to effectively manage contractors and protect taxpayers’ investments in Coast Guard assets. “I was very pleased to learn of the agreement signed today by the Coast Guard and the Integrated Coast Guard Systems team to formally remove any option for additional award term periods or the renewal of current contract award terms beyond January 24, 2011. As the Commandant promised last April, the Coast Guard is assuming the lead systems integration function, which is appropriately placed with the federal government. “Admiral Blore also confirmed this morning that the costs of the Deepwater acquisition series as currently projected will exceed the $24 billion figure contained in the last Deepwater acquisition program baseline. I applaud the Coast Guard’s movement toward the management of the individual procurements of the Deepwater series on an asset-by-asset basis and trust that this process will enable the Coast Guard to more effectively manage costs to avoid additional overruns. “It is clear that the Coast Guard is moving miles ahead in improving its management of the acquisition process, and the bipartisan Coast Guard Acquisition Reform Act of 2009, H.R. 1665, that I introduced yesterday with my colleagues Congressmen James L. Oberstar and John L. Mica, Chairman and Ranking Member, respectively, of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and Congressman Frank A. LoBiondo, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, will build upon this foundation and institutionalize best practices into the Coast Guard’s acquisition directorate.” ###
03.24.2009	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) was joined by eleven of his colleagues, including Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.), in sending a letter to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the National Cancer Institute urging the agency to utilize a portion of $8.2 million in biomedical research funding received from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to improve prostate-specific imaging technology (text of the letter below). “Every eighteen minutes, another man dies of prostate cancer, and yet, despite its prevalence, we still lack adequate diagnostic tools to provide for early detection, accurate biopsies, and appropriate treatment,” Congressman Cummings said. “By using a portion of these additional research funds on prostate-specific imaging technology, we can move one step closer to ensuring that our commitment to prostate cancer research matches its impact in our lives.” Almost 30,000 men die of prostate cancer each year, and half of the men who are treated experience a return of the cancer. Within the African American community, the statistics are even more alarming, with a 60 percent higher incidence rate and more than 2.5 times higher mortality rate than within the white community. Despite prostate cancer having a higher prevalence than breast cancer, advanced diagnostic imaging technologies comparable to life-saving mammograms still remain unavailable for men. A study funded by the National Cancer Institute that will be published in the March 26 issue of the New England Journal of Medicine shows no evidence of a survival benefit associated with aggressive screening for prostate cancer using the prostate specific antigen (PSA) test. Because of the lack of an effective diagnostic tool, more than 1 million men undergo unnecessary and traumatic biopsies each year, with side effects such as impotence and incontinence. “The leadership of NIH in the advancement of breast imaging technologies resulted in the transformation of diagnosis and minimally-invasive treatments of breast cancer, and I firmly believe that NIH and the National Cancer Institute can lead the way in bringing this same transformation to prostate cancer,” Congressman Cummings said. Signatories of the letter: Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.), Dan Burton (R-Ind.), Donna M. Christensen (D-V.I.), Danny K. Davis (D-Ill.), Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. (D-Ill.), Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), Michael E. Capuano (D-Mass.), Dennis Moore (D-Kan.), Jim Marshall (D-Ga.), Tim Holden (D-Penn.), Robert Wexler (D-Fla.) The Text of the Letter: March 23, 2009 Raynard S. Kington, M.D., Ph.D. Acting Director National Institutes of Health One Center Drive, Room 126 Bethesda, MD 20892 John E. Niederhuber, MD Director National Cancer Institute 31 Center Drive, Room 11A48 Bethesda, MD 20892 Dear Directors Kington and Niederhuber: Now that President Barack Obama has signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act into law, your agencies will receive an additional $8.2 billion in funding for critical biomedical research. We urge you to devote some of these funds to research to improve prostate-specific imaging technology for improved early diagnosis and treatment of prostate cancer. This research holds enormous promise to drastically reduce human and societal costs of prostate cancer, yet has received minimal support in prior years. Prostate cancer is the most common major cancer in this country and the second most lethal cancer in men. While it can be cured when diagnosed early, close to 30,000 American men will die from prostate cancer in 2009. Many of us in Congress and millions throughout the country have been personally affected by prostate cancer or had a loved one suffer from it. While this disease has a higher incidence rate than breast cancer, there has not been a similar level of funding. And, in fact, funding for prostate cancer research has decreased over the last six years. Accurate diagnostic technologies comparable to life-saving mammograms still remain unavailable for men, yet the promise of prostate imaging technology is real and immediate. In January, leading experts from around the world stated in a joint letter that they “firmly believe that more accurate imaging technology would lead to better patient care, including guidance for diagnosis, biopsy and minimally-invasive therapy. Real and important improvement in prostate cancer care are at hand if we are resolved to increase national investment in prostate diagnostics.”[1] The leadership of NIH in the advancement of breast imaging technologies resulted in the transformation of diagnosis and minimally-invasive treatment of breast cancer. Your agency should now lead the way in creating accurate and affordable prostate imaging tools for men for prostate cancer detection and minimally-invasive treatment. With such technologies, men and their families would face less physical, emotional, and financial trauma. Moreover, improved diagnostics could eliminate unnecessary biopsies and treatment and it is estimated it could result in savings of $5 billion for national health care each year—an enormous return-on-investment for the research commitment we seek today. Last June, the House unanimously approved House Resolution 353 calling for “increased support for research and development of advanced imaging technologies for prostate cancer detection and treatment.” Now, we have given you new resources to accomplish this worthy goal. The medical research community is more than “shovel ready” to put these resources to work. We hope that you will increase significantly the amount of funding for prostate imaging research aimed at early detection and improved treatment of the second most lethal cancer in men. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings, Henry A. Waxman, Dan Burton, Donna M. Christensen, Danny K. Davis, Jesse L. Jackson, Jr., Keith Ellison, Michael E. Capuano, Dennis Moore, Jim Marshall, Tim Holden, Robert Wexler ### [1] AdMeTech Foundation Consensus Conference on Prostate Imaging, Bethesda Maryland, 1/12/09: https://www.admetech.org/download/consensus_letter.pdf
03.16.2009	Washington, D.C. — This morning, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, sent the letter below to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner expressing his outrage at AIG’s continued implementation of ‘retention payments’ plans for its employees totaling $1 billion—including $450 million to employees of the Financial Products division that was largely responsible for driving the company into the ground, $165 million of which will be distributed this month. In the letter, Congressman Cummings asks Secretary Geithner to: Identify exactly who in AIGFP will be receiving mutli-million dollar retention payments, as well as how many of these recipients are foreign employees in overseas offices. Forbid AIG from making any contractual arrangements involving employee compensation and bonuses until all federal aid has been repaid to the government. Offer a detailed explanation of how Treasury plans to hold AIG accountable to its written commitment to reduce retention payments due to the members of the FP division for their employment in 2009. Text of the Letter: March 16, 2009 The Honorable Timothy F. Geithner Secretary, Unites States Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Geithner: As a Member of Congress and the elected representative of the 7th Congressional District of Maryland, I have been deeply outraged by the retention payment and bonus plans that the American International Group, Inc. (AIG) has continued to implement even after the receipt of what is now some $170-$180 billion in taxpayer assistance following the virtual collapse of the firm. The retention payment plan “installment” that is due by March 15, 2009, to the employees of the Financial Products (FP) division of AIG constitutes the continued payment by that firm – and now, by the American taxpayers – of bonuses for the abject failure of the FP division. In light of the ongoing bailout provided by the American taxpayer, it is time that we stop rewarding failure. In fact, it is long past time that those who destroyed AIG and, by the Department of the Treasury’s own account, created through their reckless actions a significant systemic risk to America’s economy be held accountable for their failures. The retention payment “installment” due in March 2009, which reportedly totals approximately $165 million, is part of a larger “retention payment” program created by AIG in early 2008 at a time when, apparently, it became aware of a significant decline in the performance of the FP division that it obviously believed would cause employees to leave the firm. Thus, according to an AIG filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), “In the first quarter of 2008, AIGFP established an employee retention plan, which guarantees a broad group of AIGFP’s employees and consultants a minimum level of compensation for each of the 2008 and 2009 compensation years, subject to mandatory partial deferral which, in certain circumstances, will be indexed to the price of AIG stock. The deferred amounts may be reduced in the event of losses prior to payment. The expense related to the plan is being recognized over the vesting period, beginning in the first quarter of 2008” (quoted from AIG’s 10-Q filing for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2008, page 76). (A similar disclosure is repeated in AIG’s subsequent SEC filings.) Mr. Edward Liddy, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AIG, wrote in his letter to you that these retention payments are “binding obligations” on AIG and that despite AIG’s best efforts to restructure these payments, they cannot be altered and must now be paid. Once again, the American taxpayers – who never made any contractual obligations to AIG’s employees – are apparently bound to pay for AIG’s management failures. It would appear from the AIG white paper on AIGFP retention plan that several hundred million dollars in retention payments are to be due to employees engaged by AIGFP in 2009. AIG writes in its letter to you that it “commits to use best efforts to reduce expected 2009 retention payments by at least 30%.” I write today to request that the Department of the Treasury explain specifically what steps it will take to hold AIG to this commitment and to ensure that any contractually obligatory retention payments paid by AIG to personnel in the FP division for the year 2009 are as low as possible or, preferably, that they are not made at all. Information provided by AIG in its white paper indicates that the individual retention awards paid to FP personnel will “range from $1,000 to slightly less than $6.5 million.” Seven employees will receive more than $3 million. I request that you work to identify who those individuals receiving multi-million dollar retention payments are and to determine whether they had any specific and attributable role in the downfall of the FP division. Further, I would like to know how many of the recipients of the FP-related retention payments are foreign employees located in overseas offices. Additionally, I urge that you analyze all other contractual arrangements that may bind AIG to make obligatory compensation payments of any kind and that you work to require to the fullest extent possible given the current relationship between the U.S. government and AIG that such contractual arrangements are eliminated. Further, Treasury must ensure that AIG does not create any future contractual arrangements that guarantee any level of compensation to its employees so long as even a single penny of U.S. taxpayer aid to the company has not been repaid to the government. I also bring to your attention a note on page 222 of AIG’s most recent10-K filing (Annual Report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008) attached to a chart discussing “Total Restructuring and Separation Expenses” which states “Restructuring expenses include $44 million of retention awards and Total amount expected to be incurred includes $57 million for retention awards for employees expected to be terminated.” In light of this troubling information, I ask that you determine and report how much AIG has awarded in retention payments for “employees expected to be terminated” (and for employees who have as of today been terminated) – both within the FP division and under other retention payment programs instituted by AIG. Specifically, are any individuals receiving retention payments under the FP scheme expected to be terminated prior to the full dismantling of that division? Separately, Mr. Liddy wrote in his letter that Treasury has “also asked AIG to rethink our 2008 corporate bonus proposals.” I request that Treasury detail exactly what bonus plans AIG will be allowed to implement going forward, how much these plans will cost, and how much each recipient of an AIG bonus will receive. In fact, I would like to understand why AIG should have a bonus pool at all given its current condition. In his letter to you, Mr. Liddy stated “we cannot attract and retain the best and brightest talent to lead and staff the AIG businesses – which are now being operated principally on behalf of the American taxpayers – if employees believe that their compensation is subject to continued and arbitrary adjustment by the U.S. Treasury.” If the employees of AIG are worried that their compensation is “subject to continued and arbitrary adjustment by the U.S. Treasury,” I can assure them that the U.S. taxpayers now paying their salaries are outraged by the “continued and arbitrary adjustment” of the bailout we are funding for AIG. Simply put, we as a nation can do better than this. I appreciate your attention to these matters and thank you for your ongoing work to ensure the most effective and efficient use possible of taxpayer funding. I look forward to working with you as we create a regulatory structure that will ensure that the types of failures that have led to the current economic crisis are never rewarded or repeated. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings
03.15.2009	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to renewed reports about AIG’s decision to move forward with the payment of an installment of its $400 million retention payment plan to the Financial Products (FP) unit: “For months, I have been calling on Edward Liddy to step down from his position leading AIG, and I loudly and clearly renew that call today. Mr. Liddy has repeatedly taken billions of hard-earned tax dollars from the American people—many of whom have lost their homes, their savings, and their jobs—and then slapped those people in the face with that very money. Mr. Liddy continues to display reckless and irresponsible behavior at the helm of this company, and we simply cannot afford to accept it any longer. “AIG has been trying to play the American people for fools by giving nearly $1 billion in bonuses by the name of ‘retention payments,’—including to employees at the FP unit whose reckless behavior drove the company into the ground. Any credibility that could have been given to Mr. Liddy’s argument that these payments are necessary to retain top talent was completely destroyed in last month’s 10-K filing when AIG itself disclosed that nearly $60 million of those retention payments are going to employees who will be terminated. “These payments are nothing but a reward for obvious failure, and it is an egregious offense to have the American taxpayers foot the bill. Something is terribly wrong with this picture, and the reckless behavior at AIG must stop immediately.” ###
03.05.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Joins Colleagues to Help Keep Americans in Their Homes Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, joined his colleagues in a vote of 234-191 to approve the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009 [H.R. 1106], a key step in putting into force President Obama’s comprehensive Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan. “Trying to restore our nation’s economy without taking massive measures to stabilize our housing market is like trying to start a car without any gas,” Congressman Cummings said. “Our new legislation will help hundreds of thousands of responsible Americans stay in their homes, in part through important provisions allowing bankruptcy judges to modify the terms of mortgages—reducing foreclosures by an estimated 20 percent at no cost to taxpayers.” The legislation would fix the Federal Housing Administration’s Hope for Homeowners program by reducing fees that have discouraged lenders from voluntarily participating and by offering new incentives for lenders to negotiate loan modifications with borrowers who are at risk of foreclosure. Additionally, it would allow bankruptcy judges to modify the terms of loans for families with existing mortgages who have taken steps to get a loan modification outside of bankruptcy and who can prove that they will be able to repay their debts. “Under the existing system, investors with two, three, and four homes are allowed to restructure their loans in bankruptcy, but the average American who can only afford a single home is not granted this same opportunity,” Congressman Cummings said. “This is the only foreclosure mitigation that does not involve an increased burden on taxpayers. If families can prove that they will be able to keep up with mortgage payments with a restructured loan, then it is just common sense to make this option available.” The bill also includes language authored by Congressman Cummings that would require the Office of the Comptroller of Currency (OCC) and the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) to issue mandatory mortgage modification data collection and reporting requirements for the banks they regulate. “In order to ensure that homeowners do not default on their loans after lenders have modified the terms of those loans, we need to understand what works and what doesn’t—and we need to verify that lenders are providing the most effective and efficient assistance,” Congressman Cummings said. “By requiring OCC and OTS to provide us with these details, we can better guarantee that families will be able to stay in their homes.” ###
03.02.2009	Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee,released the following statement in response to news that AIG would be receiving an additional $30 billion in TARP funding: “Although I am not surprised that AIG came back to beg the government for additional taxpayer assistance, I am disturbed that it happened so soon—particularly after CEO Edward Liddy told me on January 15th that he expected to re-pay the government early. To me, this means that Mr. Liddy was either once again being less than honest or that he has no idea what is happening with his company—and both of these scenarios are unacceptable. “American taxpayers have already invested so much in keeping AIG afloat because of the risks to our financial system posed by the obligations the company is supporting, and it is important that we continue to do everything we can to keep it from going under. However, there are still too many unanswered questions about how AIG spent its first portion of TARP assistance. We cannot allow the pattern of deception by this company to continue. Transparency and accountability are more critical than ever. “AIG’s 10-K filing this morning has raised even more questions about how the company is being managed. Spending $57 million on ‘retention payments’ for employees expected to be terminated is ludicrous, and it tells me that this company has no respect for the aid it is receiving or for the Americans whose hard-earned taxpayer dollars are keeping the company alive. “Equally disturbing in the 10-K filing are AIG’s strong complaints against the limits on executive compensation that were established by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. If it were not for TARP assistance, these executives would not be making any money at all. It is audacious to reject the commonsense accountability measures put in place to protect taxpayer dollars, and it is time for Mr. Liddy to come back from whatever planet he is on and visit us here in reality. I am puzzled by AIG’s statement that it has ‘embraced a pay-for-performance philosophy.’ Surely this cannot be in reference to the approximately $450 million in retention payments being given to employees of the Financial Products division whose performance brought the company down in the first place. “American taxpayers now essentially own AIG, and we are thus entitled to complete disclosure of how the business is being run and where these funds are being spent. This information must include a complete review of the company’s compensation policies, with particular emphasis paid to the more than $1 billion in ‘retention payments’ that have been distributed even while the company is failing. “We also need to seriously re-evaluate the leadership at AIG and determine whether a change would be appropriate at this point. Each passing week brings to light more recklessness and disorganization by this company. As millions of taxpayers who are footing the bill for AIG’s bonuses and parties are losing their jobs and homes, we continue to see examples of profligate spending and irresponsible decision-making by the company’s leadership.” ###
02.24.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Statement on President Obama's Speech Before the Joint Congre Washington, D.C. — Tonight, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s address to a Joint Session of Congress regarding the state of our nation: “I have never felt more confident in the abilities of President Barack Obama to lead our nation forward as I do tonight. For the first time in a long time, the President presented the American people with an honest assessment of the challenges that we face as a country—and, importantly, presented the outline for a realistic plan with tough choices to see us through these troubling times. President Obama’s belief in our ability to meet and defeat the obstacles ahead of us—and his responsible, comprehensive vision to achieve this—creates an inspiration that is contagious. “We need not look far to see the battles our country is facing—we witness them every day right here in our backyard. Millions of Americans have lost their homes, their jobs, and their savings, and hope for recovery seems like a distant dream. Our nation is undoubtedly in critical condition, and every problem—from health care to unemployment to consumer confidence to foreclosures—is deeply intertwined with the next. And yet, we have seen tonight that there is still hope. President Obama shared with us a vision on how we can tackle each of these problems and lead our country back on the right track, and he reminded us that America is the greatest country in the world. As the President said tonight, we will rebuild, recover, and emerge stronger than before. “The road ahead of us is undoubtedly long, and the journey to recovery arduous, but progress is already being made. In the past thirty days, President Obama and the Democratic Congress have done more to improve health care than we have seen in the past eight years. The economic recovery package has already started creating and saving jobs. Working families who are struggling to keep their heads above water will immediately experience relief from one of the greatest tax cuts in history. “Tonight, the President set the foundation to re-build a newer, stronger America—an America where every individual has access to quality, affordable health care, where every child has access to a sound education, and where we have a responsible foreign policy that maintains our moral authority while keeping our families safe. He outlined for us a vision where our companies can compete—and win—in the global marketplace, and where we are freed from our dependence on foreign oil. We must now all work together to help make this vision a reality.” ###
02.23.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on AIG Request for Additional Federal Funds Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to reports that American International Group (AIG) will be requesting additional federal assistance as it is poised to announce a major fourth-quarter loss: “While I anticipated that AIG would come back to the government begging for additional taxpayer dollars, I am disturbed that it has happened so soon—particularly in light of what appears to be the continuation of reckless spending by the company. There are still too many unanswered questions about how AIG has spent the first portion of TARP assistance, and we must be very cautious and deliberate in responding to the company’s likely new request. “If we allocate additional funds to AIG, the American taxpayers will essentially completely own the company and will be entitled to complete disclosure of how the business is being run and where this money is being spent. This information must include a complete review of the company’s compensation policies, with particular emphasis paid to the more than $1 billion in ‘retention payments’ that have been distributed even while the company is failing. “We also need to seriously evaluate the leadership at AIG and determine whether or not change would be appropriate at this point. As millions of the taxpayers who are footing the bill for AIG’s parties and bonuses are losing their jobs and their homes, we continue to see examples of profligate and irresponsible decision-making by the company’s leadership. This is simply unacceptable. “I have previously requested that my colleague, Congressman Edolphus Towns, Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, convene a hearing to examine some of the alarming questions that have been raised about AIG. It is critical that we get to the bottom of what is going on with AIG, and I hope this hearing will take place at the earliest possible date.” ###
02.23.2009	Washington, D.C. — Below is the text of a letter to Admiral Thad Allen, Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard, from Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, in response to the release of an independent review of the Coast Guard’s Office of Civil Rights and the Service’s civil rights programs. The report, prepared by Booz Allen Hamilton and commissioned by Admiral Allen, highlights several egregious examples of problems relating to civil rights within the Coast Guard. The full report can be read at https://www.uscg.mil/HQ/CG00/CG00H/NEWS/USCG%20OCR%20FINAL%20Program%20Review.pdf. Congressman Cummings has asked Admiral Allen to prepare detailed information on the steps the Coast Guard will take to remedy the deficiencies identified in the report, including dates by which specific actions will be taken and benchmarks that will be used to measure the effectiveness of the remedial actions. Additionally, a CGMT Subcommittee hearing will be convened in April to examine both the report and the specific steps being taken by the Coast Guard to correct the problems. A copy of the signed letter can be viewed by clicking here. February 22, 2009 Admiral Thad Allen Commandant, United States Coast Guard Coast Guard Headquarters 2100 2nd Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20593 Dear Admiral Allen: Given the serious accusations made against the Coast Guard’s Office of Civil Rights (OCR), I applaud your decision to commission an independent, outside entity to conduct a thorough review of the Office and of Coast Guard civil rights programs. However, the results of that review, released in the "United States Coast Guard Office of Civil Rights: Program Review," prepared by Booz Allen Hamilton and made public last week are deeply disturbing and completely unacceptable. The February 19, 2009, memorandum on the report signed by you and released with the report indicates that on your instruction, "The Director of Civil Rights has already taken action on some of the recommendations and is developing an implementation plan for other items that are actionable in the near-term." Further, the memorandum indicates that the Director is to brief the Leadership Council on those issues that "need the support of other senior leaders to implement longer-term Service-wide solutions" and that you have in turn instructed the Leadership Council to "evaluate broad issues of organizational structure, Human Resource practices and needs related to our Equal Employment Opportunity program, diversity, and climate, as well as address skills assessments and training, workload analysis, upkeep of policy directives, and promulgation of Standard Operating Procedures." These are appropriate first steps – but the findings of this report demand decisive and comprehensive action to correct what appear to be a number of significant shortfalls in the administration of the OCR and related units that are severely limiting the effective provision of a range of civil rights services to Coast Guard personnel and job applicants. Several of the report’s findings are uniquely troubling. For example, the report indicates that web log content has contained confidential information and that, in some cases, information regarding complaint activity has been released. Further, the report indicates that the handling of personally identifiable information "varies as a function of command practices and is not conducted in a prescribed and standardized manner." While an ALCOAST was recently issued addressing unofficial internet posts by Coast Guard personnel, it is imperative that all confidential and personally identifiable information be kept secure. The Coast Guard would never allow classified information to be left "unattended and unlocked at Field locations" due to "limited storage space" – and that same standard must be applied to personnel information. Further, the report indicates that Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) discrimination complaints are not being adequately handled. The report indicates that EEO counselors are inadequately trained to provide civil rights services and are in some cases "advising aggrieved parties to seek other forms of redress not identified in the regulations" and that individual Coast Guard "commands have delegated authority for complaints not authorized to make decisions or possessing the requisite subject matter expertise to make such decisions." Other findings indicate that OCR is not adequately staffed to handle the expanded workload that will come to the office when it assumes responsibility for final agency decisions in military complaints. If the EEO complaint resolution process does not work to resolve complaints in an effective and timely manner – and if individuals cannot be sure that the confidentiality of their complaints will be protected – the EEO process will fail to provide services that are in compliance with 29 C.F.R. 1614 and will thus fail to ensure the full protection of worker rights. The report indicates that "there is very little workforce analysis ongoing in the field or examination of barriers that may inhibit equal employment opportunity in the workplace." Additionally, the report found that the Equal Opportunity Review process lacks metrics to define success and that the review process does not entail the examination of measurable outcomes or the conduct of root cause analysis for problems identified, which apparently leads "commands to narrow problems to discrete areas for improvement." Failure to implement effective equal employment opportunity efforts that identify and remove all barriers that may exist to equal employment opportunity is frankly tantamount to a lack of commitment to the achievement of a diverse workforce. Finally, a number of organizational and administrative shortfalls are identified in the report that appear to be preventing the OCR and related field units from effectively providing civil rights services, including a lack of effective coordination between the OCR and field personnel, a lingering negative climate at the OCR, and the production of poor work products by personnel who may not have the skills necessary to perform the tasks assigned to them and who may not view the effective provision of civil rights services to Coast Guard personnel as their highest priority. I note that the report clearly states that the "USCG civil rights organization will require long-term temporary support with the requisite analytical skills and subject matter expertise to support activities associated with the implementation of recommendations provided." The report indicates that a Resource Proposal for fiscal year 2011 has requested a "$2.5 million increase to support additional training, a budget increase, and the creation of positions for additional full-time Field Civil Rights Service Providers." This request must go through a review process; however, as that occurs, it is imperative that the Congress understand the unmet resource needs that may exist within the Coast Guard’s civil rights programs so that we understand what will be required to bring these programs to acceptable standards of quality. Further, the report clearly states that the "implementation of recommendations will need to be openly endorsed at the highest levels of the Coast Guard organization to ensure the cooperation of, and participation by, key stakeholders." Changes will be needed throughout the entire Coast Guard – not just within the OCR and related field units – to ensure that the provision of civil rights services by professional and adequately trained civil rights personnel (including, if appropriate, fully trained military personnel) are a shared, service-wide priority. The Booz Allen Hamilton review appears to be thorough and rigorous. I note that a memorandum prepared by the Department of Homeland Security to transmit the report to the Coast Guard OCR concluded that the report is "comprehensive, well-prepared" and "clearly and thoroughly presents an analysis of the USCG civil rights program, provides supporting documentation, and sets forth specific action items to address identified areas for improvement." It is clear that urgent corrective action is required in response to the reports findings; any delay could imperil the access of Coast Guard personnel to effective, efficient, and timely civil rights services. Therefore, I write today to request detailed information on the steps that the Coast Guard will take to remedy the serious deficiencies identified in its civil rights services, including the dates by which specific actions will be taken and the benchmarks that will be put in place to measure the effectiveness of remedial actions. I will convene a hearing on this matter in the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation in April to examine both the conclusions of this report and the specific steps the Coast Guard will implement to correct these problems. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Chairman, Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation cc: The Honorable Janet Napolitano, Secretary, Department of Homeland Security
02.19.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings, Mikulski, Cardin, Sarbanes Announce $1.3 Million Staffing Award for Howard County Firefighters Baltimore, Md.— Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin and Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) today announced Howard County Fire and Rescue Services have been awarded more than $1.3 million in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). As a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski continues to fight to increase federal funding for the AFGP each year. Senator Cardin is a member of the Budget Committee, which each year sets priorities for funding to federal agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security. Congressman Cummings said, “Our nation’s first responders are true heroes, risking their lives every single day to keep our families safe. It is with great gratitude toward the Howard County firefighters that we announce this grant. With the 12 new full-time firefighters who will be hired with these funds, the fire department will be able to continue to do a superb job of keeping our neighborhoods safe.” “I know how important this funding is to Maryland firefighters – often it’s the difference between life and death. First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing them with the tools they need to do their jobs safer and smarter,” said Senator Mikulski. “Every day when our first responders report for duty, they don’t know what they will face. That’s why I fight every year for the equipment, training and staffing our protectors and communities deserve.” “First responders have always been on the front lines, keeping our families and our neighborhoods safe from harm. I thank these brave men and women for their continuing service and sense of duty to our community,” said Senator Cardin. “I am proud to support federal investment through local grants like this, which are essential to ensure our community heroes have the equipment and training they need to do their jobs safely and efficiently.” “Too often, firefighters risk their lives with insufficient staffing, inadequate training and obsolete equipment,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “We have an obligation to provide firefighters with the necessary resources to perform their jobs and keep our communities safe.” Howard County Fire and Rescue Services have been awarded $1,300,560 to hire 12 full-time firefighters. This increase in staffing ensures the county’s compliance with NFPA and OSHA standards, which mandate that a minimum of four firefighters must respond to a fire or emergency call. This is the first SAFER award for Howard County. For more information, call Anna Lucente at 410-313-5723. SAFER grants, which are part of the AFGP, were created to provide funding directly to fire departments and volunteer firefighter organizations to help them increase the number of trained, front-line firefighters available in their communities. Since 2001, Howard County fire and emergency medical services (EMS) units have been awarded nearly than $2 million in federal assistance through the AFGP. Statewide, Maryland fire and EMS departments have been awarded more than $66 million. # # #
02.18.2009	start text Baltimore, Md. — Below are the prepared remarks of Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-7), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, delivered at a press conference in Baltimore this afternoon to discuss President Obama's Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings Press Statement on President Obama’s Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan February 18, 2009 Further, another 55,693 households are projected to experience foreclosures in the next two years. The spillover effects of these foreclosures are expected to touch another 1.2 million surrounding homes, which are projected to experience an average loss of $9,941 in individual property values, resulting in a statewide loss of $12 billion in home values. The primary reason that I voted for the bailout plan for Wall Street was because I was assured by President Obama that some relief would be given to my constituents on Main Street who were losing their houses. The President today kept his promise to the American people by extending a helping hand to our neighbors who are desperately trying to remain in their homes by introducing the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan. This plan provides a road map that will enable us to stabilize our communities by reducing foreclosures. President Obama has made it clear that we can no longer just talk about our nation’s problems and debate possible solutions. We must begin to take bold action. To that end, the plan he introduced today will help up to 9 million families restructure or refinance their mortgages to avoid foreclosure. Among other steps, the plan will increase funding for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to enable them to carry out ambitious efforts to ensure mortgage affordability for responsible homeowners, and provide forward-looking confidence in the mortgage market. The plan also provides $75 billion to help stabilize homes against continuing declines in home values. Through the measures it creates, the plan will help not only those at immediate risk of foreclosure, but also those whose homes are now worth less than the value of the mortgages on those homes. Together with the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which the President signed yesterday, this plan will help us begin to stabilize our communities and our national economy and help restore the dream of homeownership to millions of Americans. The key components of the plan are: I. ) Refinancing for Up to 5 Million Responsible Homeowners to Make Their Mortgages More Affordable. II. ) A $75 Billion Homeowner Stability Initiative to Reach Up to 4 Million At-Risk Homeowners. III. ) Supporting Low Mortgage Rates By Strengthening Confidence in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac For many families, a low-cost refinancing could reduce mortgage payments by thousands of dollars per year. The average homeowner could see his or her home value stabilized against declines in price by as much as $6,000 relative to what it would otherwise be -- without the Homeowner Stability Initiative. The Obama plan is crucial in helping families who are facing foreclosure, as well as in assisting in the recovery of communities that have been harmed by the results of the foreclosure crisis. Thank you. ### Today, President Obama laid out a decisive plan to help the millions of Americans who have lost or who are in jeopardy of losing the American dream of homeownership because of our country’s devastating foreclosure crisis. Unfortunately, Maryland is not immune to this crisis. A drive down any street in Baltimore will lead past an increasing number of foreclosure signs placed in front of homes where families once lived comfortably. In January, nearly one out of every 627 homes was in default in Maryland.
02.13.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Statement on Passing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to today’s vote of 246-183 to approve the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (H.R.1): “Our nation is in the midst of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, causing millions of people to lose their homes, their jobs, their life’s savings, and their hopes and dreams. The need for swift, deliberate action grows every day, and I was honored to join my colleagues in the House of Representatives today to pass the first dramatic new investment in our future since the creation of the interstate highway system a half-century ago. “The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will create or save 3.5 million jobs, immediately cut taxes for 95 percent of American workers, and make unprecedented investments in our nation’s infrastructure. Through investments in unemployment benefits and food stamp benefits, this legislation provides immediate relief to the Americans who are suffering the most while also infusing money directly back into our economy. “While there is no overnight solution to fix the fallout from the past eight years of poor economic policy, this comprehensive legislation is the first major step in restoring our nation’s economy and providing relief to the millions of Americans who are struggling with all of their might to stay above water. While the road ahead of us is undoubtedly long, the Congress has moved our nation miles ahead by passing this critical legislation. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to follow suit by quickly passing this bill and sending it to President Obama to sign into law.” ###
02.12.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Introduces Legislation to Address Shortfalls in HazMat Research Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, introduced the Hazardous Materials Cooperative Research Act of 2009 (H.R. 1013) to address shortfalls in research addressing the shipment, inspection, and response to incidents involving hazardous materials. “Our nation sees more than 1 million shipments of hazardous materials every single day, and it is critical that we be on the cutting edge of research to ensure the safety and security of these shipments,” Congressman Cummings said. “Likewise, we must ensure that our first responders are adequately equipped with the information and research necessary to effectively and efficiently react to any accidents or incidents involving hazmats.” More than a dozen government agencies and private companies have commissioned studies on hazardous materials, but most of this research is program-specific, focused only on the needs of the group undertaking the research and leaving disturbing gaps in oversight efforts and applied research on issues that are cross-cutting in nature. The legislation introduced by Congressman Cummings would establish and implement a $20 million hazardous materials cooperative research program to address current shortfalls in hazmat studies. Projects would be selected by an independent governing board established by the Secretary of Transportation, and priority would be given to studies that will yield results immediately applicable to risk analysis and mitigation or that will strengthen the ability of first responders to respond to incidents involving hazmats. The introduction of H.R. 1013 is one of several steps taken by Congressman Cummings in response to a massive fire in Baltimore’s Howard Street Tunnel in 2001. The fire was caused when a train derailed, puncturing several tank cars and igniting flammable liquid. In part because first responders were lacking adequate information on hazardous discharge procedures, the fire continued to burn for several days. “With nearly one-fifth of our nation’s cargo containing hazardous materials, we cannot afford to rely on antiquated or incomplete research on best practices of shipment and response,” Congressman Cummings said. “The Howard Street Tunnel fire was a shocking and devastating wake-up call for the need for a massive safety overhaul of our nation’s transportation systems. This comprehensive, cross-cutting research program is an important step to protect us from experiencing a disaster on such a large scale again.” ###
02.11.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on NAACP Centennial Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, released the following statement in recognition of the 100th anniversary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), headquartered in the 7th District of Maryland: “One hundred years ago, a group of 60 came together to stand up against the egregious racial injustice that ran deep within our nation’s threads. During a period of lynching and other violence toward Blacks, when the voice of African Americans was silenced by gross inequality and the absence of a vote, this group stood up and called for a renewed struggle for civil and political liberty in our nation. Over the past century, the membership of the NAACP has grown to 500,000, and the actions of this group have saved countless lives and brought America closer to a land of true equality. “Every single one of us has been affected either directly or indirectly by the tireless efforts of the NAACP to ensure the political, educational, social, and economic equality of all and to eradicate racial hatred and discrimination. In my own life, the impact was first realized by Juanita Jackson Mitchell and the NAACP Baltimore Branch who, by standing up for us as we marched to integrate South Baltimore’s Riverside Swimming Pool, showed me that I have rights that others must respect. “Earlier this year, our nation came together to celebrate an historic moment when Barack Obama was sworn in as America’s first Black President. This victory symbolized the progress our nation has made in recognizing individuals not by the color of their skin, but by the contributions they bring to our society. And, importantly, it paid tribute to the one hundred years of blood, sweat, and tears by the NAACP to make African Americans visible. As we enter a new era and the NAACP’s focus shifts from civil rights to human rights, I applaud the organization for everything it has done for me, my family, and my community, and I look forward to a continued legacy of justice and opportunity for my children and my children’s children.” ###
02.10.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Senate Passage of Economic Recovery Bill Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to the Senate’s approval of the Economic Recovery Act by a vote of 61-37: “This afternoon, my colleagues in the Senate came together and passed a critical piece of legislation at one of the most critical moments in our nation’s history. With every moment that this economic recovery legislation is left unsigned, more people will lose their jobs, their homes, their health coverage, and—in many cases—their hope. The time to act is now, and this is a great step forward in bringing relief to the millions of Americans who are drowning in the effects of our struggling economy. “This legislation is by no means perfect, and I am concerned that some very important and extremely relevant expenditures were reduced or cut from the original bill passed by the House of Representatives last week. Cutting aid for state governments in financial crises will not get us back on track and will not help keep essential services in tact. Cutting spending on the construction of schools to prepare our children for the future will not restore our economy and will not create additional construction jobs. Taking away funds aimed at assisting the record number of unemployed Americans and at helping families buy food will not provide the relief that our nation so desperately needs. I sincerely hope that the funding levels for these projects will be restored to the original amounts allocated in the House-passed version of this bill. “I am committed to working with the Obama administration, as well as with my colleagues in both the House and Senate, to ensure that we are able to quickly produce a final piece of legislation that provides relief to those who truly need it while making sound investments toward recovering our economy.” ###
02.09.2009	Cummings Statement on A-Rod's Steroid Use Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement in response to reports that MLB player Alex Rodriguez admitted his past steroid use: “While I was disappointed to learn that Alex Rodriguez tested positive for steroid use, I admire him for demonstrating the courage to come forward and be honest. A-Rod is one of the most talented players in Major League Baseball and is therefore a role model to so many young people. We are all guilty of making mistakes, but what distinguishes a true hero is the ability to acknowledge those mistakes and the commitment to learn from them. “The ripple effect caused by steroid abuse in professional sports extends far beyond the individual user and questions of fairness in the game. When the issue of steroid abuse is kept quiet, it is our young people who suffer. We have worked hard in the Congress to curb the use of performance-enhancing drugs in professional baseball because we learned that many young people were using these substances while emulating their role models, often harming their physical and mental health in the process. “Mr. Rodriguez made the right move by admitting his mistake, and he must now go one step further by working with us to spread the message that performance enhancing drugs are illegal, unethical, and—most importantly—harmful to our young people. I am asking him to join Powered by ME!, a unique steroids education campaign in Baltimore, and come before student athletes to help us put an end to the myth that steroids are not only acceptable, but also safe. It is my hope that he will join us in this effort.”
02.04.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Introduces TARP Accountability Legislation Companies receiving TARP funds would be required to publicly disclose expenditures Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and member of the Joint Economic Committee, introduced the Accountability from Corporations for Outlays Under TARP (ACCOUNT) Act, which would require institutions receiving assistance under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) to report expenditures on corporate junkets, executive compensation and bonuses, and other employee perks. “When these companies come to us on their knees begging for money and then turn around and continue the partying on Wall Street with the corporate junkets and million-dollar bonuses, it is nothing less than a slap in the face of the American taxpayers,” Congressman Cummings said. “The American people are now shareholders in these companies, and it is only right that we know how our money is being managed and spent.” Congressman Cummings has been a leading critic of profligate spending by companies that have received TARP funding—particularly expenditures on executive compensation and bonuses, corporate junkets, and sports sponsorships—and is concerned about the lack of transparency with regard to how these institutions are spending taxpayer dollars. Under the ACCOUNT Act, any company receiving TARP funds would be required to prominently disclose on its website its expenditures on corporate events and junkets, bonuses and compensation, corporate jet use and executive travel, club memberships, and lobbying. The information would be updated monthly. “While my neighbors in Baltimore continue to lose their jobs and their homes, it becomes increasingly difficult for them to understand why AIG is taking their hard-earned money and then giving away more than a billion dollars in bonuses or why Citigroup is taking this money and then spending $400 million to put its name on a baseball stadium in New York,” Congressman Cummings said. “This bill is an important first step in bringing transparency and accountability to the distribution of TARP funds.” ###
02.04.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Statement on Piracy Hearing Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the statement below following today’s Subcommittee hearing on International Piracy and the High Seas: “While the term ‘pirate’ may for many conjure romantic images of swashbuckling adventurers, there is in fact nothing romantic about a poor individual from a failing state waiting in a small skiff to attack vulnerable cargo ships with a rocker-propelled grenade launcher. Piracy threatens the lives of innocent mariners and threatens to increase shipping rates at a time of deepening economic recession. “As we learned in today’s hearing, international piracy on the High Seas is a complicated issue that cannot be resolved overnight. The U.S. Coast Guard and Navy have been critical in preventing and intervening in pirate attacks through Combined Task Force 151 and its Coast Guard law enforcement detachment, and the contributions of the international community to patrol the Horn of Africa region have been instrumental in helping our cause. It is only through the united effort of the international community that we will be able to bring peace to our seas. “It is imperative that we continue to garner regional support in the Horn of Africa to assist us in the difficulty of handling pirates once they have been detained. There are currently several efforts underway to increase regional and international cooperation on the arrest, detention, and trial of pirates, and we must be quick in implementing any agreement that is reached to this end. “Unfortunately, we can have the best system in place to capture and detain pirates, but the structure will never be complete if we ignore the underlying problems that are leading individuals down the road of piracy. Although pirate attacks have decreased overall in recent years, the number of attacks in the Horn of Africa has increased dramatically. In fact, nearly half of the world’s pirate attacks last year occurred in this region. There is no doubt that the political and economic conditions of Somalia have fueled these incidents, and we must unite as an international community to help bring stability to that nation. “Although no U.S.-flagged vessels have been attacked or seized by pirates, the consequences of piracy in the Horn of Africa—a highly traveled region—will undoubtedly spill over onto our shores and threaten an economy already in recession. Many vessels carrying U.S.-bound cargo have already been targeted, as well as ships owned by U.S. citizens. Additionally, many shipping companies have been forced to divert away from the Horn of Africa, adding additional time and fuel costs, and many ships have seen insurance rate increases. Additionally, at least one shipping line has been forced to add ‘pirate premiums’ to their shipping costs. This is a very serious issue, and we must do everything we can to put an end to it.” ###
02.04.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Verdict in School Violence Case Baltimore, Md.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-7) released the following statement in response to the acquittal of a 16-year-old student who was charged with the assault of her teacher at Reginald F. Lewis High School in a case that made national headlines after a video of the fight recorded on someone’s cell phone was released to the media: “While justice has been decided in this particular case, we must not turn away without also resolving the broader case of the systemic violence that is plaguing our schools. This tragic incident was instrumental in opening eyes nationwide to the problems that are distracting our children in their day to day lives. We must continue to come together as a community and help put an end to school violence. “Dr. Nancy Grasmick and I have hosted two school violence prevention summits, bringing together teachers, parents, students, and community leaders to have frank discussions about the extent of the problem and to brainstorm solutions to help make our schools a safer environment for young people. The responses at these events have been overwhelming, and we are confident that—by coming together and respecting every party involved—we will be successful in achieving our goal of safe, violence-free schools. We must have a zero-tolerance policy with regard to violence in our schools. “While the road ahead of us is a long one, we have by no means embarked on an impossible journey. My interactions with high school students, their parents, and their teachers have given me hope for a new day for our public schools. I look to the example of the effects of the Virtues Program at Kenwood High School, where students, teachers, and administrators abide by 52 character traits to improve communication skills and prevent their interactions from escalating into violence. “My thoughts and prayers are with both Ms. Jolita Berry and the student involved in this incident as they move forward and continue the healing process.” ###
01.28.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Joins Colleagues in Passing Economic Stimulus Bill Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined a majority of his colleagues in passing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, H.R. 1, by a vote of 244-188. “As our nation continues to struggle through the fallout from the past eight years of poor economic policy, it is more critical than ever for the Congress to step in and provide real relief to the millions of Americans who are suffering every single day,” Congressman Cummings said. “This comprehensive package is a giant step forward in moving our economy back on course.” The bill, which strategically allocates funds toward spending, tax cuts, and investments, would create and save 4 million jobs while jumpstarting our economy with proven stimulus measures and transforming our nation for the 21st century. Additionally, it includes unprecedented accountability and transparency measures. The State of Maryland is slated to receive nearly $1.2 billion in funding and would see more than 99,000 jobs created or saved—reducing the unemployment rate by 2 percent. Other Maryland-specific highlights of the bill include: · More than $1.4 million to help maintain state Medicaid costs and allow the option for the state to offer coverage to unemployed workers through the Medicaid program. · Tax subsidies for more than 53,000 low-income families to help make college more affordable. · $219 million in increased food stamp benefits, assisting more than 400,000 Marylanders. · Increased unemployment benefits and an extension of the expiration date for unemployment benefits for more than 282,000 Marylanders. · More than $575 million to invest in construction and repair of Maryland schools with a high number of low-income students, as well as assisting students with disabilities—$250 million of which is allocated to schools in the 7th District. · Nearly $48 million in highway infrastructure funds for Baltimore and the surrounding area. “This stimulus package throws a long overdue lifeboat to the millions of families who have been drowning in the midst of our nation’s economic crisis,” Congressman Cummings said. “I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act quickly in passing this measure and sending it to President Obama to sign into law.” ###
01.28.2009	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement urging his colleagues to join him in supporting H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which is scheduled for a vote in the House of Representatives later today: “As millions of Americans continue to struggle through the fallout from the past 8 years of poor economic policy, it is more critical than ever that the Congress step in and provide real relief for the real people who are suffering every single day. The comprehensive economic stimulus bill under consideration today is a necessary first step in moving our economy back on course, offering a responsible mix of spending, tax cuts, and new investments in our nation. I strongly urge all of my colleagues to join me in creating and saving 4 million jobs, providing 95 percent of Americans with an immediate tax cut, and investing quickly and wisely in our economy by supporting this legislation.” ###
01.14.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Joins Colleagues in Protecting Children’s Health Insurance SCHIP Reauthorization includes critical dental coverage proposed by Cummings Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 2, the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization to ensure that 11 million children have access to health coverage—including mandatory dental coverage proposed by Congressman Cummings. The bill passed by a vote of 289-139. “Our nation’s children were in serious condition when President Bush vetoed the SCHIP reauthorization in 2007, and they are in critical condition now,” Congressman Cummings said. “These children are the living messages we send to a future we will never see, and it is more important than ever that we provide every single child with access to quality care.” The bill, which reauthorizes the program responsible for providing health coverage to children whose parents earn too much money to qualify for Medicaid but cannot afford private health insurance plans, would preserve coverage for the 7 million children currently covered by SCHIP and extend coverage to an additional 4 million children who are currently eligible for SCHIP and Medicaid but not yet enrolled. Several key provisions to improve the SCHIP program were included in the bill, including mandatory dental benefits and other important measures proposed by Congressman Cummings to increase children’s access to dental care. The importance of these measures was underscored by Deamonte Driver, a 12-year-old Maryland boy who died when an untreated tooth infection spread to his brain. Although a simple $80 procedure could have saved Deamonte, his mother was unable to get him treatment. “Although we will never be able to bring back Deamonte Driver, we can continue to take these monumental steps to ensure that we bring life from this young man’s death,” Congressman Cummings said. “While we still have a struggle ahead of us to fully address our nation’s health care crisis, we can come together today to celebrate a substantial victory in the passage of H.R. 2.” ###
01.14.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chair of the Maryland delegation Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined her Team Maryland colleagues Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.), Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.), Roscoe Bartlett (R-Md.), Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), John Sarbanes (D-Md.), Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards (D-Md.) and Congressman Frank Kratovil (D-Md.) in urging President Bush to consider the disaster declaration request made by Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to reimburse Maryland for Inauguration costs. The State will provide critical public safety measures along the President-elect and his family’s transportation route through Maryland to Washington, D.C. and will work with the Secret Service to reinforce security in the District of Columbia. These measures are estimated to cost more than $12 million. Currently, no funds have been set aside by the U.S. Congress to reimburse the state for these costs. Reimbursement is particularly critical during these difficult economic times when state resources are scarce. “This is an historic moment in our nation’s history. And our State is proud to provide the support services necessary to make this a smooth and memorable Inauguration. Just as in other parts of the nation, though, the economic downturn means Maryland has fewer resources and greater needs. I hope FEMA will move quickly to approve the State’s request for reimbursement,” Senator Mikulski said. “I strongly support Maryland’s request for a declaration of emergency for the dates surrounding the Inauguration of Barack Obama,” said Senator Cardin. “Maryland’s close proximity to the Nation’s Capital and the use of our State’s services and resources deserve reimbursement for this extraordinary national event.” “Maryland is excited to be part of the festivities surrounding the historic Presidential Inauguration and will dedicate significant resources to help ensure the region is prepared to welcome the millions of expected visitors over this weekend,” stated Congressman Steny Hoyer. “With the increased reliance on law enforcement, infrastructure, and public transportation systems, it is crucial that Maryland receive federal assistance in order to ensure the safety and welfare of our constituents and visitors.” “Maryland should be reimbursed by the federal government for the Inaugural-related security expenses because the inauguration of our President is a national event that brings people from all over the country to the National Capital Region,” said Congressman Bartlett. “The State of Maryland is proud to provide support services for the inauguration of our next President. However, the burden of these added costs will greatly strain limited resources. I trust that the Federal government will reimburse the State and local governments that provide critical resources during this important Federal event," said Congressman Chris Van Hollen. “As friends, families, and neighbors gather to celebrate this historic event, the government has a responsibility to provide whatever protection necessary to ensure that this weekend remains one filled with happiness and hope. The State of Maryland will be providing critical services to keep its residents safe and secure, and it is essential that the federal government provide assistance to cover the associated costs,” said Congressman Elijah Cummings. “It is an honor that Maryland is involved in such a historic event, the 56th Presidential Inauguration. We are proud to be able to have our law enforcement agencies assist in making this national event a safe success, but this comes at a financial cost to Maryland taxpayers. Maryland is facing severe budget shortfalls. It is only fair the federal government reimburse Maryland for these extra services like they have for other jurisdictions,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. “The State of Maryland is working very hard to ensure that visitors to the historic Inauguration of President-Elect Barack Obama feel welcome,” said Congressman John Sarbanes. “I am hopeful that the President will recognize that these efforts also involve extraordinary expenses and will approve a declaration to grant Maryland some relief.” “As we prepare to celebrate this historic inauguration, Maryland has answered the call to provide critical services to help protect the millions of Americans who plan to attend,” said Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards. “With the estimated cost of $12.6 million, coupled with Maryland’s already sever budget deficit, I join my colleagues in the Maryland delegation in requesting the expedited declaration of an emergency to receive supplementary Federal assistance.” “It’s an honor for Maryland to contribute to next week’s events, but we shouldn’t incur any further financial hardship as a result. Our state and local governments are already experiencing budget shortfalls and should not be subject to any further costs or more importantly be left without the ability to protect and serve our citizens in the normal course of their duties,” said Congressman Frank Kratovil. The text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our shared support for the State of Maryland’s request for the expedited declaration of an emergency in light of the 56th Presidential Inauguration. An estimated four million people are expected to be in DC to share in this historic event. We respectfully request that you approve the provision of supplementary Federal assistance. The Department of Homeland Security designated the period of January 17, 2009 through January 21, 2009 as a National Special Security Event (NSSE). As a result, state and local officials will work closely with the Secret Service to prepare for the event. Maryland has agreed to supply important services to ensure lives and property are protected during the Inauguration. MEMA assigned three EMS strike teams to the District of Columbia. The Maryland State Police will send sworn officers into DC, the Baltimore City NSSE and along the AMTRAK rail line. There will be increased patrols in the DC metropolitan area including covert assigned troopers. In addition to the State Police, five other State agencies are working with MEMA. For example, MDOT identified supplementary transport including rail and buses and the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene prepared a Hazardous Vulnerability Assessment to anticipate natural events such as cold weather and flu as well as possible terrorist attacks such as bio-terrorism and improvised explosive devices. Despite Maryland’s extraordinary contributions to the event, there is no funding provided to reimburse state and local governments. Governor O’Malley has estimated the cost of Inauguration security at $12.6 million. An expedited declaration of a disaster is necessary to help provide the security needed to protect lives and property.
01.13.2009	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Introduces Children’s Dental Bill Proposed legislation would improve children’s access to dental care Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) introduced H.R. 462, the Medicaid-SCHIP Dental Benefits Improvement Act of 2009 to improve children’s access to dental care. “Nearly two years ago, a 12-year-old boy from Maryland named Deamonte Driver died when an untreated tooth infection spread to his brain,” Congressman Cummings said. “Deamonte’s death exposed a huge chasm in our nation’s health coverage for children, and this legislation is critical in ensuring that we bring life from this young man’s death.” The bill includes seven key provisions that Congressman Cummings is working to have included in the upcoming State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization, which is expected to be considered by the House of Representatives later this week. These provisions were included in the SCHIP reauthorization bill that Congress passed in 2007, which President Bush vetoed twice. The legislation would: Guarantee a dental benefit for children covered by SCHIP that includes preventive, restorative, and emergency dental care. Provide dental education for parents of newborns. Allow community health centers to contract with private dentists for the purpose of providing dental care under Medicaid and SCHIP. Require states to report the status of children’s oral health for children covered by Medicaid and SCHIP. Improve access to dental provider information for Medicaid and SCHIP patients through the Insure Kids Now website (www.insurekidsnow.gov) and hotline (1-877-KIDS-NOW). Require the GAO to conduct a study assessing children’s access to dental care within 18 months of the bill’s enactment. Direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a core set of child health quality measures for assessing states’ Medicaid and SCHIP programs, including measures for the availability of dental services and the quality of pediatric dental care. “There is no excuse for what happened to Deamonte Driver, and the fault lies with every single one of us for letting him slip through the cracks,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is critical that we move forward and enact these common sense proposals to establish a safety net to catch all of the other Deamontes out there.” Congressman Cummings is also working to pass legislation that would extend dental benefits to children who are eligible for SCHIP but have private medical insurance that does not include dental insurance. This critical provision would capture a significant amount of children without dental coverage while offering parents incentive to keep their children in private medical plans. ###
01.13.2009	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Members of the Maryland Delegation are calling on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to delay a decision on the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility at Sparrows Point until the Obama Administration takes office next week. In a letter sent to FERC today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersburger (D-MD) and Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD) expressed their concerns about the safety and security of the proposed facility as well as the threat to endangered Chesapeake Bay species. FERC is expected to make a decision on the proposal on January 15, 2009. The Obama Administration takes office on January 20, 2009. In 2008, the Coast Guard found that the Chesapeake Bay is not currently suitable for an LNG facility because sufficient resources are not available to implement the necessary safety and security measures to protect the facility and nearby residents. AES, the company proposing the project, has not created a Transit Management Plan as requested to determine how to adequately mitigate the risks of an accident or possible terrorist attack at the facility. In addition, the Department of the Interior recently determined construction of the plant could threaten the environmentally sensitive area of the Chesapeake Bay. “There are serious environmental and safety concerns involved in the operation of an LNG facility, and all evidence seems to be showing that AES is not adequately prepared to address these issues at Sparrow’s Point,” said Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. “By rubber stamping this ill-advised project, FERC is jeopardizing the safety and security of Maryland residents.” “For more than two years, I have repeatedly raised my safety and security concerns about this LNG facility and pipeline. While I am still waiting for these concerns to be adequately addressed, FERC has proceeded at breakneck speed to rubber stamp this project. It’s time for them to hit the breaks. FERC should hold off their decision until all the critical security and safety concerns have been addressed,” said Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). “I am strongly opposed to locating a LNG facility at Sparrows Point,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. “I am deeply concerned about security and environmental risks to the Port of Baltimore and Chesapeake Bay, and I urge FERC to delay its decision so that the new Obama Administration will have an opportunity to study and review the risks of locating a LNG facility in a densely populated, urban area.” “From the very beginning, I have said this liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this densely populated, urban area because of strong concerns over safety and security. AES has done nothing to ease those concerns. This, coupled with the threat to endangered Chesapeake Bay species, means FERC should delay its decision. The Obama Administration must be allowed to study and review the risks of building an LNG facility so close to a residential neighborhood in a critical area of the Chesapeake Bay,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Chairman of the Port Security Caucus and a Member of the Intelligence Committee. “The debate about whether or not to place a LNG facility at Sparrows Point has always hinged foremost on the issue of safety,” said Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD). “But the Interior Department’s recent letter about the project’s impact on endangered species in the Chesapeake Bay raises new ecological and environmental concerns that need to be addressed as well. FERC should give these issues the appropriate attention." LNG is a hazardous fuel that can explode when ignited. The proposed site is less than two miles from the residential neighborhoods of Dundalk, Turner’s Station, and Edgemere in Baltimore County. The tankers carrying LNG to the facility would travel under the Chesapeake Bay Bridge to reach the facility. In addition, an LNG facility could harm a multi-million dollar revitalization effort on the Eastside of Baltimore County and restrictions on recreational boat traffic could hurt the quality of life of area residents. The letter from Members of the Maryland Delegation to FERC is attached. Click here to view the letter from the Members of the Maryland Delegation to FERC. ###
12.18.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent the letter below to Mr. Edward M. Liddy, Chairman & CEO of AIG, Inc. The two had been scheduled to meet this morning, but Mr. Liddy canceled late last night. The meeting was planned to address ongoing concerns Congressman Cummings has expressed regarding questionable practices of AIG, and it was scheduled after the Congressman's most recent request for information. December 18, 2008 Mr. Edward M. Liddy Chief Executive Officer American International Group, Inc. 70 Pine Street New York, NY 10270 Dear Mr. Liddy: I was very disappointed to receive (from the media) your letter dated December 17, 2008, in which you canceled our meeting that was scheduled for today. It seems that the leadership at AIG has been stonewalling the U.S. Congress, doing whatever possible to avoid answering completely and accurately the questions that I have posed. These are reasonable questions that the American taxpayers who funded your company’s bailout are asking and for which they deserve answers. AIG’s refusal to answer the simple yet important questions is exceedingly frustrating and disappointing. Your most recent letter leaves me particularly concerned, as it is the type of behavior that—during my twelve years as a Member of Congress—has historically been employed as a stall tactic from those who have something to hide. Please keep in mind that, as a Member of Congress, it is my duty to demand full accountability for funds that have been allocated by the United States government. I have requested a hearing before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to further examine the operations of your company because I have been unable to get a thorough and satisfactory response directly from AIG. Please rest assured that neither I nor my colleagues in Congress will relent until we get answers to these questions and until we have full transparency into the operations of your company. You stated that you would re-schedule our meeting, and my door is open to you at your earliest convenience. I look forward to speaking to you as soon as possible. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress
12.16.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government, sent the following letter to Committee Chairman Edolphus Towns (D-N.Y.) and Ranking Member Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) requesting a Congressional oversight hearing to examine recent actions of insurance giant AIG—the government bailout of which has cost taxpayers $152 billion (text of the letter below). The Congressman is specifically concerned about: Reports that the company is secretly giving “retention payments” to thousands of its employees. This new information conflicts with both an SEC filing and a letter from AIG CEO Edward Liddy to Rep. Cummings that placed the number of recipients at 130 and 168, respectively. Reports that the company continues to send executives to lavish retreats, including a recent event held in Phoenix, Ariz. Mr. Liddy insisted during a phone call with Rep. Cummings, as well as on national television, that no AIG executives were in attendance. However, media coverage of the event shows that at least eight executives were present and spent the majority of their time away from the official conference events. The extent to which the Department of Treasury and Federal Reserve are informed of the compensation policies of AIG. Text of the Letter: December 16, 2008 The Honorable Edolphus Towns Chairman Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 2232 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C., 20515 The Honorable Darrell E. Issa Ranking Member Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 211 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C., 20515 Dear Chairman Towns and Ranking Member Issa: I write today to request that you convene in the full Committee on Oversight and Government Reform a hearing to examine American International Group, Inc.’s (AIG) use of taxpayer dollars, specifically with regards to compensation policies and expenditures and corporate events. I make this request for the reasons outlined below. In a series of letters to AIG, I have repeatedly requested information from the firm about the compensation it is providing to its employees – and particularly about the so-called "retention payments" the firm is apparently awarding. By AIG’s account, these retention payments were approved by AIG for award to the firm’s employees by the Compensation Committee of AIG’s Board of Directors on September 18. On September 22, AIG’s retention program was disclosed to the public in an 8-K filing made by the firm with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In that filing, AIG stated that the retention program "applies to approximately 130 executives and consists of cash awards payable 60 percent in December 2008 and 40 percent in December 2009." On approximately November 25, AIG announced that it would not award bonuses to its top executives in 2008. Presumably pursuant to this decision, in a form 8-K filing made with the SEC and dated November 24, AIG disclosed the following: "On November 24, 2008, the Executive Officers of American International Group, Inc. ("AIG") who participate in its previously disclosed retention program, including Chief Financial Officer David Herzog and Executive Vice President Jay Wintrob, volunteered to delay payments thereunder, with the first installment being delayed from December 2008 until April 2009 and the second installment being delayed from December 2009 until April 2010. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edward M. Liddy does not participate in this program." In a letter I sent to AIG on December 1, 2008, I posed the following questions to AIG’s Chief Executive Officer, Edward M. Liddy, regarding the retention payments. Which executives in which AIG divisions are receiving the retention payments – and how much is each executive receiving? What are the base salaries of the executives receiving the retention payments? Are all executives delaying receipt of these payments until April 2009 – or, if any executive is not delaying receipt of the payments, which executive or executives is/are receiving payments in December 2008 and how much is each executive receiving? Why is it necessary for any AIG executive to receive a retention payment – and why is it necessary that these be scheduled for April 2009 and April 2010? What will be the source of the retention payments provided in 2009 and 2010? Responding to my letter, AIG provided only the following information in a letter dated December 5, 2008: The Compensation Committee of AIG’s Board of Directors approved retention payments for 168 employees, including the 130 employees announced in September and 38 additional individuals who were selected based on subsequent authority granted by the Compensation Committee. The base salaries of those receiving the retention payments range from $160,000 per annum to $1,000,000 per annum. The retention payments range from $92,500 to $4,000,000. Thirteen individuals scheduled to receive the retention payments had agreed to delay the receipt of their first payments from December 2008 to April 2009. I then wrote to AIG on December 9 and requested, in addition to other information, that AIG answer the following questions: Is any AIG executive who has publicly agreed to forgo a salary and/or bonus(es) going to receive a retention payment? For each of the 168 individuals scheduled to receive the retention payments, what is the difference in total compensation between 2007, actual compensation in 2008 (from all sources – including retention payments), and the level of compensation these individuals could have anticipated in 2008 had 2008 been a normal year (in other words, what was each person’s target compensation level in 2008)? What is now projected to be the firm’s total expenditure on salaries, bonuses, and retention payments in each of 2008 and 2009 – and what was the firm’s projected expenditure on compensation in 2008 before the firm’s collapse? Now a Bloomberg story authored by Hugh Son dated December 12 suggests that AIG is actually giving retention payments to at least 2,000 employees – rather than the 168 employees AIG had identified in correspondence to me (or the 130 employees disclosed to the SEC in September). Additionally, the story indicates that those to whom the payments were offered were required to keep the payments secret; if the payments were revealed, those individuals receiving the payments could apparently be required to forfeit them. At this time, I believe that the Committee should compel Mr. Liddy to testify under oath so that he can fully and completely explain AIG’s compensation policies and expenditures, including the extent to which bonuses of any kind are being awarded in 2008 (and contemplated for award in 2009), and the full extent of the retention payment program announced by AIG. Additionally, I note that AIG executives have stated to my staff that the firm has negotiated conditions with federal officials regarding its compensation policies. I think it is critical that the Committee seek to understand (1) whether AIG has revealed the full extent of its compensation policies to officials with either the Department of the Treasury or the Federal Reserve and (2) whether, if the Federal Reserve and/or the Department of the Treasury are fully aware of AIG’s compensation policies, either or both has approved AIG’s issuance of retention payments (or any other type of bonuses) as part of the firm’s compensation package. For that reason, I would urge that officials from these entities should also be called to testify at a hearing that examines AIG’s compensation policies. Further, I am extremely concerned with ongoing reports that AIG continues to host luxury junkets on the taxpayer’s dime. In an Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing in October 7, I expressed deep concern over a $443,343 executive retreat hosted by the company. In response to my questioning, Mr. Liddy sent a letter on October 30 indicating that AIG was canceling more than 160 corporate events. Unfortunately, media reports in the same time period told a different story. Specifically, I am deeply troubled by reports of a corporate event in early November at Squaw Peak Hilton in Phoenix, Arizona, where the company took deliberate steps to remove its name from any signs at the event in an effort to "maintain a low profile." Media reports indicate that the event in Phoenix cost about $343,000 but AIG has claimed it covered only about $23,000 of this cost, with "corporate sponsors" financing the difference. Yet, at least one of these "corporate sponsors" is an AIG subsidiary company. I am also extremely concerned that in a telephone call with me as well as on a national television interview with CNN’s Larry King, Mr. Liddy insisted that no AIG executives attended the Phoenix event – but the media reports make it clear that at least eight AIG executives were in attendance. These executives reportedly spent the majority of their time on non-business-related activities, and they were reported to fly out days before registration even began. I am very interested in getting some clarity on this matter. Documents provided by AIG to the Oversight Committee indicate that expenditures on AIG corporate functions totaled $138 million from the first of the year to November 6. Events have continued to occur since the first bailout. They range in size from $100 to several million dollars and they have been staged all over the world. Several of these events present a cause for concern, including an October 5 "Pheasant Hunt" event at the Plumber Manor in Dorset, England which cost approximately $93,255 and is listed as a "client/broker meeting" with 3 employees present and 21 total attendees. Any ongoing investigation into AIG should include an assessment of these events. U.S. taxpayers now own a nearly 80 percent stake in AIG – and yet there is essentially no information available either to the Congress or to the U.S. public regarding how exactly AIG has expended the taxpayer funding provided to it. As representatives of the taxpayers that are literally keeping AIG afloat, Congress has the right and indeed the duty to demand from AIG a full accounting of the funds provided to it. Therefore, I strongly urge you to convene a hearing as soon as possible in the 111th Congress to continue the Committee’s inquiry into AIG’s use of taxpayers’ money. Thank you for your consideration of this request. If I can provide any additional information about this matter, please do not hesitate to contact me or my staff member, Danielle Grote, at 202-225-4741. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress
12.12.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: ‘The Time to Act Is Now’ Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to the Senate’s failure to pass auto bailout legislation last night: “For nearly a decade, President Bush and a Republican-led Congress enacted reckless economic policies that have driven our nation’s economy into the ground. We see the effects of this reflected daily in the form of rising unemployment, foreclosures, and filings by small businesses under Chapter 11. Just yesterday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics released a report that jobless claims are up to 573,000—a 26-year high. Our economy is not just bleeding; it is hemorrhaging. “Last night, my colleagues in the Senate had an opportunity to save 3 million jobs through a small loan to the auto industry accompanied by strict oversight, accountability, and transparency standards. This relief was blocked by the very same Republicans whose irresponsible and failed policies created this toxic economic environment in the first place. The blow to our economy will be devastating. “For the past two months, the Bush administration has thrown hundreds of billions of dollars to their white collar friends on Wall Street with absolutely no accountability or direction as to how that money will be used. These financial institutions continue to exercise poor judgment in how they utilize these taxpayer dollars—continuing the parties, the spa retreats, and the outrageous bonuses. Now, when the blue collar companies ask for assistance and jump over 5 million hurdles to get that help, the money is suddenly unavailable. This is incomprehensible and completely unacceptable. “The time to act is now. President Bush must immediately call on Secretary Paulson to release a portion of the TARP funds to jump start the American auto industry and save millions of additional Americans from losing their jobs, their homes, and their dreams. The Congress has established a responsible plan to keep the Big 3 afloat and help them become more viable in the global marketplace, setting the standard that should be in place for any institution receiving a dime of taxpayer money. “It is too late for President Bush to reverse eight years of poor judgment, but it is not too late for him to change the course and begin steering our economy back on track. I strongly urge the President and Secretary Paulson to do the right thing—the responsible thing—and allocate TARP funds to GM and Chrysler immediately. There are millions of Americans depending on these men as a last resort. Time is of the essence.” ###
12.09.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, sent the following letter to Edward Liddy, President & CEO of AIG. The Congressman continues to be concerned about the company's decision to award 168 "retention payments," ranging in value from $92,500 to $4 million. December 9, 2008 Mr. Edward M. Liddy Chief Executive Officer American International Group, Inc. 70 Pine Street New York, NY 10270 Dear Mr. Liddy: Thank you for your letter of December 5, 2008, and for providing information on the retention payments that American International Group (AIG) approved for its employees on September 18, 2008. The information you provided indicates that (1) 168 people are to receive the retention payments; (2) that the base salaries of those receiving the retention payments range from $160,000 per annum to $1,000,0000 per annum; and (3) that the retention payments range in size from $92,500 to $4,000,000. The letter further indicates that only 13 individuals scheduled to receive the retention payments have agreed to delay the receipt of their first payments from December 2008 to April 2009. I remain concerned, as do many American taxpayers, that these retention payments are simply bonuses by another name. We have all heard the story that top AIG executives are forgoing promised salary and bonus payments while the company gets back on its feet (in large measure by selling off operating units), but I am interested in knowing whether these same executives who have announced they are forgoing compensation are receiving “retention” payments to make up the salaries they are forgoing. Is anyone who has publicly agreed to forgo a salary and/or bonus(es) going to receive a retention payment? I think we could all benefit from some clarity as to the difference between the amount of compensation that AIG would have paid under normal circumstances to those receiving retention payments and the amount these 168 individuals are now expected to receive in compensation. Please provide me with (1) a breakdown on what each of the 168 individuals scheduled to receive the retention payments received in 2007 in total compensation (including salaries, bonuses, and any other types of compensation) and (2) a breakdown showing what these 168 individuals will now be receiving in 2008 through their combined base salaries and retention bonuses. Please also identify any other compensation of any type from any source that the 168 individuals receiving the retention bonuses will receive in 2008. Further, please show what these individuals’ targeted compensation levels were expected to be in 2008 prior to the collapse of AIG. Please specify the units within AIG for which the individuals receiving the retention bonuses work – and what the status of these units is (e.g., pending sale, expected to be retained by AIG, etc.). Finally, please provide me with a breakdown of what would have been spent in total by AIG in 2008 on salaries, bonuses and retention payments had the firm not collapsed – and please also show what is now projected to be the firm’s total expenditure on salaries, bonuses, and retention payments in each of 2008 and 2009. My staff informs me that your General Counsel and Chief Financial Officer indicated that the Treasury and the Federal Reserve exerted significant oversight authority in negotiating the terms under which AIG was permitted to award retention payments. I think shedding light on this process will make great strides in assuring American taxpayers that their tax dollars are being used judiciously. Can you please provide me with details on the terms you negotiated with these government authorities regarding these retention payments? What assurances have you given the Treasury and the Federal Reserve that these retention payments will result in their intended effect? What other specific terms have you negotiated regarding both the specific executive compensation limits that will be put in place at AIG as well as how these limits will be enforced? Additionally, there is frankly a lack of clarity regarding how all of the bailout funding – particularly the first $85 billion in bailout funding – has actually been spent. Please provide detailed information that explains the specific expenditures that have been made by AIG from the federal funding provided to it. Finally, I have yet to receive a response to a letter that I sent to you on November 11; a copy is enclosed with this letter for your reference. In addition to the questions raised in that letter, you had indicated to me in an earlier telephone call that there were no AIG executives in attendance at the event in Phoenix, Arizona, held in early November 2008 – but media reports seem to confirm that there were at least some AIG executives in attendance at that event. Please specify exactly which executives attended that event and the full amount of any costs associated with the event borne by AIG. Thank you for your attention to these matters. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress end text
12.05.2008	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement applauding the auto industry for their efforts in securing government assistance and encouraging his colleagues to offer support: "For months, the federal government has been blindly throwing money at nearly every financial institution that blinks, with no written requirements on how that money is to be used and with no written standards of accountability. In response, these companies have taken hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars and continued with business as usual—the business of partying at the spa and spending hundreds of millions of dollars on sports arenas. "At last, we are being asked for help from three companies that are already taking great steps to change how they do business. The Big Three automakers came to the Congress asking for money, and we told them they first needed to present us with a plan. They have presented us with plans. We told them it looked bad to fly down here in three separate private jets, and they responded by making plans to carpool back in hybrid vehicles. We told the UAW that they need to come to the table and make concessions, and union leaders met with me yesterday to affirm that they are willing to continue to tighten their belts. "And yet, there still seems to be some hesitation on the part of the Bush administration and among some of my colleagues in distributing a small portion of TARP funds to help this ailing industry. With one in ten American jobs tied to the auto industry, the livelihood of the Big Three is one of our nation’s most troubled assets. These companies have agreed to jump through hoops, offer full transparency, and subject themselves to strict accountability, while their counterparts in the financial sector will not even agree to the reasonable request to stop the profligate spending. We cannot have one standard for white collar and a different standard for blue collar. "As we spend the next two days questioning the Big Three at Congressional hearings, I encourage my colleagues to be sensible—and to be just. These companies are on their knees looking for a little help to save American jobs in the midst of a recession, and unlike the AIGs and Citigroups, they come to us with legitimate business plans—not cashmere hats—in hand. "I applaud the auto industry for continuing to exhibit the type of behavior that should accompany any dime of taxpayer money, and I pray that their white collar counterparts will learn from their example." ###
12.05.2008	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to testimony from Dr. Keith Hall, Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, during the Committee’s hearing this morning on the nation’s employment situation: “Earlier today, Commissioner Hall testified before the Joint Economic Committee that our job market is at one of its lowest points in over a century, and it continues to worsen every day. “Millions of Americans wake up each morning to homelessness, unemployment, and hunger. Men and women across our nation are drowning in an economy created by eight years of terrible economic policy. Today’s staggering job numbers are a bright red flag that we need to provide assistance to American families yesterday. “More than two months ago, the House of Representatives passed emergency economic recovery legislation that would provide immediate relief to the men and women who need it the most—including the 533,000 who lost their jobs in November and the nearly two million who lost their jobs since the beginning of the year. We cannot ask these men and women to continue their suffering until the transition of a new President and Congress. The time to act is now. “I strongly encourage my colleagues in the Senate to immediately pass this legislation when they return to session next week. We are the last line of defense for millions of desperate Americans who are trying to make ends meet. The time has passed for partisan politics. President Bush and the Republican Senators who are stalling this emergency relief for the American people must come together to help the men and women whom they have been elected to protect.” ###
12.01.2008	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in recognition of the 20th anniversary of World AIDS Day today. “Since 1988, the world has come together to show unity and raise awareness about the deadly realities of HIV and AIDS. Communities across the globe have successfully fought to dispel many of the myths that surround the disease. It is our job to continue to combat the blinding ignorance born of racism, sexism, and homophobia that too often shroud the truth about HIV and AIDS. “For the 33 million people who are currently struggling with HIV and AIDS, every day is ‘AIDS Day.’ Sadly, people of color suffer disproportionately. Eight out of every ten American women and children infected by the HIV virus since 1981 have been people of color and it has become the leading cause of death in young African American women. “For those who continue to suffer and for the loved ones we have lost, we must do everything within our power to meet the goal of halting the spread of HIV and AIDS by 2015. “We must recommit to addressing the epidemic through the four pillars of prevention, care, research and advocacy. It is only through these focused efforts that we will finally declare victory in our cause.” # # #
12.01.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, sent the letter below to Edward Liddy, President & CEO of AIG, requesting information about the company's 'retention payments' to executives which were announced the day after AIG executives said they would be forgoing bonuses. December 1, 2008 Mr. Edward M. Liddy Chief Executive Officer American International Group, Inc. 70 Pine Street New York, NY 10270 Dear Mr. Liddy: I write today to request that American International Group (AIG) fully disclose to the public the extent of the payments being made to senior company executives under your employee “retention program.” The limited information that is currently available to the public about this program is insufficient to constitute the level of disclosure that the American taxpayers, who have bailed out this firm repeatedly in recent weeks, have the right to expect. In form 8-K dated September 22, 2008, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), AIG disclosed the following: “On September 22, 2008, a retention program of American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”) became effective. The program applies to approximately 130 executives and consists of cash awards payable 60 percent in December 2008 and 40 percent in December 2009.” AIG has recently indicated that it will not provide performance bonuses in 2008. However, in what appears to be a disingenuous “slight of hand,” AIG has announced its intention to continue to provide the retention program payments (commonly known as retention bonuses) previously announced in September – albeit some executives have apparently opted to delay receipt of these payments (but not to forgo them). Thus, in form 8-K dated November 24, 2008, and filed with the SEC, AIG disclosed the following: “On November 24, 2008, the Executive Officers of American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”) who participate in its previously disclosed retention program, including Chief Financial Officer David Herzog and Executive Vice President Jay Wintrob, volunteered to delay payments thereunder, with the first installment being delayed from December 2008 until April 2009 and the second installment being delayed from December 2009 until April 2010. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edward M. Liddy does not participate in this program.” In September of this year (and several days prior to the SEC filing announcing the “retention program”), the U.S. taxpayers provided a bailout loan of $85 billion to keep AIG afloat; in return, the federal government received an ownership stake in the firm. Subsequent actions increased the total size of the bailout to more than $150 billion – and restructured some of the initial loans provided to the firm. Without taxpayer intervention, AIG would have ceased to exist and, to be blunt, all of its employees would have lost their jobs. Against this background – and given the massive layoffs occurring at other major financial entities, such as Citibank – the American taxpayers have a right to know why senior executives at AIG, who are frankly lucky to still have jobs, need to receive additional bonus payments of any kind to retain them at AIG. To that end, I request that AIG disclose to the public the following information: Which executives in which AIG divisions are receiving the retention payments – and how much is each executive receiving? What are the base salaries of the executives receiving the retention payments? Are all executives delaying receipt of these payments until April 2009 – or, if any executive is not delaying receipt of the payments, which executive or executives is/are receiving payments in December 2008 and how much is each executive receiving? Why is it necessary for any AIG executive to receive a retention payment – and why is it necessary that these be scheduled for April 2009 and April 2010? What will be the source of the retention payments provided in 2009 and 2010? AIG has previously claimed in correspondence to me that it is working “to create a transparent, accountable culture to regain the trust of the American people.” The disclosure of the information requested here will be a first step toward providing the kind of transparency that the American people have the right to expect from a private firm to which they have provided more than $150 billion in financial assistance. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress
11.26.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement calling on AIG President & CEO Edward Liddy to resign in response to reports that the company would be issuing millions of dollars in “cash awards” to 130 of its executives: “I am beginning to understand why companies like AIG are so committed to spending hundreds of millions of dollars on sports sponsorships. It’s because they like playing games. Since it seems that the executives at these companies did not get the memo, I am here to tell them that the fun and games are over. “I was shocked upon learning—just one day after being told that top AIG executives would be forgoing bonuses this year—that the company’s executives will be receiving ‘cash awards’ as ‘retention payments.’ AIG can dress this money up in fancy names, but no one is fooled. A bonus by any other name still stinks. “When Mr. Liddy was appointed to try to steer AIG back on track, he was expected to be a good steward of taxpayer dollars, spending this money as effectively and efficiently as possible. Instead, he has continually chosen to reward failure and mislead the American people in the process. Now, it is time for Mr. Liddy to reward the taxpayers who are funding his company’s wasteful spending by submitting his resignation. “AIG just doesn’t seem to get it. These executives’ bonuses are that they still have a job. If that job is not enough for them, there are hundreds of thousands of other Americans seeking employment who would be more than happy to take their place. “I welcome and encourage the CEO’s of every company begging for taxpayer dollars to come spend a day in my district and meet the people whose hard-earned wages they have been throwing into the wind—the families who have lost their homes, the single mother who lost her job and isn’t sure how she will pay her bills, and the young people who dream about going to college but just cannot afford it. Perhaps this dose of reality would drill in the message that it cannot be business as usual on Wall Street. Perhaps then Mr. Liddy would understand why the time has come for him to step down. “It is becoming increasingly apparent that the companies begging us for life support cannot manage the simple task of sound judgment when it comes to fiscal matters. The profligate spending must come to an end. If these companies cannot stop inappropriately spending taxpayer dollars, I will have no problem working with Speaker Pelosi and President-elect Obama next year to enact the legislation that will do it for them.” ###
11.25.2008	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to reports that GM will be ending its nine-year endorsement deal with Tiger Woods: “After months of headlines highlighting profligate spending by the very same companies coming to the federal government begging life support, it would appear that someone finally gets it. GM’s decision to end its endorsement deal with Tiger Woods is demonstrative of the type of action that every company seeking federal assistance needs to take. “I can only hope that GM’s sound judgment will be contagious to other companies seeking federal assistance—particularly Citigroup, which within the span of one week announced that it will eliminate another 52,000 jobs, that it is ‘committed’ to spending $400 million to plaster its name on the new Mets stadium, and that it needs an additional $20 billion from the government to stay afloat. Similarly, I pray that AIG—which still seems to think that the Troubled Asset Relief Program was designed to sneak executives off to the spa to relieve the stress of driving their company into the ground—will take heed of GM’s example. This type of spending is indefensible and unacceptable, and it must come to an end. “My constituents in Maryland did not turn over their hard-earned wages to fund a baseball stadium in New York, a soccer jersey in the UK, or a multi-million dollar bonus for an executive whose poor judgment helped put us here in the first place. “Until now, the institutions seeking and receiving TARP funds have adopted the attitude of business as usual, expecting the American taxpayer to subsidize their parties and favorite sports teams. It is very encouraging that GM has taken the lead in exercising fiscal responsibility. Perhaps the Citigroups and AIGs of the world will soon follow suit.” ###
11.25.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, sent the following letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson: November 25, 2008 Mr. Henry M. Paulson Jr. Secretary Department of the Treasury Room 3330 15th and Pennsylvania, NW Washington, DC 20220 Dear Secretary Paulson: I applaud your announcement this morning of new aid facilities to support the continued recovery of our nation’s economy. However, I strongly believe that, unlike in previous instances in which federal aid was provided to financial institutions, this aid program must come with strict written conditions that will ensure that the stated purposes of the program will be accomplished. The announcements made this morning include the anticipated expenditure of $600 billion to buy debt from and mortgage-backed securities backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as the expenditure of an additional $200 billion to support the flow of commercial lending—including credit card debt, automobile loans, small business loans, and student loans—through the purchase of illiquid assets backed by these debts. The Federal Reserve states that the action to provide aid to Fannie and Freddie “is being taken to reduce the cost and increase the availability of credit for the purchase of houses, which in turn should support housing markets and foster improved conditions in financial markets more generally.” Similarly, the purchases of assets backed by commercial debts are expected by the Federal Reserve to “help market participants meet the credit needs of households and small businesses by supporting the issuance of asset-backed securities (ABS) collateralized by student loans, auto loans, credit card loans, and loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration (SBA).” In the past, when federally provided financial aid programs have been announced – whether for government-sponsored enterprises (GSE), banks, or other financial entities like American International Group (AIG) – the stated purpose has also been to “ease credit” or “assist homeowners” or to provide some other assistance that is projected as being of direct benefit to the American consumers whose tax revenues are funding the aid programs the federal government is issuing. Unfortunately, the achievement of these stated goals appears to have become something of an after-thought when the terms under which aid has been provided have been drawn up or when programs have been implemented. For example, soon after $125 billion was provided to major U.S. banks, it became clear that many of the banks would not lend this money as was promised but would keep it to cover their own costs or even to buy failing competitors. As a result, the American taxpayer – including homeowners who face foreclosure and/or who now owe more on a home mortgage than their home is worth, as well as individuals seeking small business loans or other types of commercial credit – often have yet to see direct benefits from the aid that the federal government has provided to financial entities. This practice gives off the appearance of carelessness on the part of the federal government when it comes to using these taxpayer funds in the most effective and efficient manner, and it is simply unacceptable. As you move to implement this new $800 billion aid package, I urge you to require in writing at the outset that those entities that receive the aid agree to stringent, specific criteria that will make the objectives of increasing the flow of credit a reality rather than just a lofty promise. To that end, the criteria to which aid recipients should be required to agree must include specific timetables and measureable goals to ensure that a fair assessment can be made of the recipients’ compliance with the terms on which aid is given as well as of the ability of this aid program to accomplish its stated objectives. Only in this way can full accountability for this new aid program be assured. I believe that the American taxpayers recognize the extraordinary nature of the challenges we face – and they will approve continued aid to financial institutions to enable our nation to overcome these challenges if they see that the aid that is provided is accomplishing the stated purposes for which it is being provided and if it helps the taxpayers whose money is funding this aid. However, the American taxpayers deserve better than to watch hundreds of billions of their hard-earned wages be handed out with little more than a verbal request that the funds be utilized as intended. The government can—and must—do better. We do not have a dime to waste. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress ###
11.24.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: Citigroup’s spending ‘indefensible and unacceptable’ Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to reports that Citigroup would be maintaining a $400 million contract giving it naming rights to the New York Mets stadium: “After reading yesterday morning that Citigroup—which has already received $25 billion in bailout money—is adamant in maintaining its $400 million naming rights to the new New York Mets stadium, I was shocked to learn that the company came to the federal government asking for an additional multi-billion dollar lifeline. Surely, if the company has the funds to paste its name to a recreational facility, it has the money to maintain its operations and keep the 52,000 jobs it announced last week it would be eliminating. “While I understand that Citi is under a contractual obligation with the Mets, I cannot understand why the organization seems to be refusing at the very least to explore options out of that contract. This type of spending is indefensible and unacceptable to Citigroup’s new partner and largest investor: the American taxpayer. My constituents in Maryland did not turn over their hard-earned wages to fund a baseball stadium in New York. “One would think that the Mets would be open to finding a new sponsor, as well. Why would any team want its new stadium, the symbol of a new era of victories, to be named after and symbolized by a company claiming to be on the brink of collapse? “I strongly urge Citigroup to find a way out of this contract and instead spend that $400 million on retaining its employees and restoring confidence in its operations. Furthermore, I encourage Citigroup and every other corporation depending on taxpayer dollars to stop the reckless spending, and I again insist that Secretary Paulson and Chairman Bernanke start holding these companies accountable. We cannot continue to pour taxpayer dollars into buckets with holes.” ###
11.14.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement in response to AIG’s announced plans to spend $503 million in deferred compensation: “I am becoming increasingly convinced that the senior executives at AIG just don’t get it. Just when I think they cannot possibly make another terrible business decision, I see a new headline showing that it is business as usual over at AIG—and bad business, at that. Edward Liddy and company just do not seem to realize that you cannot come to the government on your knees begging for billions of dollars in taxpayer assistance to save your business, and then stand up thank those taxpayers with a slap in the face. “Today’s news that AIG plans to pay out $503 million in deferred compensation is demonstrative of the type of mismanagement that led this company to its current situation in the first place. I believe that management at AIG could strongly benefit from learning some basic arithmetic. Citi Group just laid off 10,000 people. Morgan Stanley announced that it will lay off nearly 5,000. 12,000-13,000 employees at DHL will soon be unemployed. The list is nearly as long as the list of expenses on the invoices of AIG’s profligate spending. Any employee at AIG should be exuberant to still even have a job. Their employment itself is the greatest bonus they could need. “While the rest of the country is receiving pink slips for the holidays, AIG continues to dole out hundreds of millions of dollars even as it comes to the government, cashmere hat in hand, begging for more money. I simply cannot fathom why the company continues to exercise such poor judgment, and I once again call on Edward Liddy to step down from his position as President and CEO and make room for someone who can steer the company back on track, rather than drive it—and the taxpayer money that is funding it—further into the ground.” ###
11.10.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to recent news reports concerning AIG: “I was absolutely shocked and extremely disappointed to hear of the new bailout package for AIG—just as I was shocked and disappointed to learn that the company held another executive spa day over the weekend in Phoenix, Arizona. AIG is coming to the government claiming to be in critical condition and asking to be placed under intensive care, but they are still going out partying and acting as healthy as ever. “This new information is particularly egregious in light of a letter sent to me by AIG Chairman and CEO, Mr. Edward Liddy, in which I was assured that this sort of behavior would not be tolerated. It appears that Mr. Liddy has failed to keep his word. We cannot continue to infuse this company—or any other—with taxpayer dollars when the company is strong enough to host junkets and provide its executives with golden parachutes. “When the Fed initially announced the bailout of AIG earlier this year, it said that the steps taken were enough to rescue the company. Now, we are looking at nearly double the price tag—and with even weaker restrictions. It is hard to sympathize with a company that was driven into the ground because of corporate greed, recklessness, and irresponsibility, and it is even harder to sympathize when this company’s executives continue to wade by luxury pools while the everyday American whose taxpayer dollars are being used to save the company are hard at work. “Again, I encourage Treasury Secretary Paulson to be very deliberate and thoughtful in how the $700 billion recovery package will be utilized. We cannot afford to keep throwing money into a bucket with a hole in it. The American people deserve better than this.” ###
11.10.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Washington, DC —Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement in honor of tomorrow’s observance of Veterans’ Day: "This Veterans’ Day, we are waging war on two fronts. Today is the day for us to come together to honor all of the brave men and women in uniform who have risked their lives to keep American families safe—in these wars and all others. I encourage everyone to take a moment to thank our veterans and their families for their courage and sacrifice. While we may be divided on the war in Iraq, we must be united in seeing that every single member of the armed forces is welcomed back with all the compassion our grateful nation can bestow. “The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have cost us the lives of more than 4,000 and 600 Americans, respectively, and they have wounded more than 32,500 of our warriors. Time and again, our veterans have kept their promise to serve our nation, and we must keep our promises to protect our veterans. I am pleased that the Democratic Congress has made great strides in providing a new direction for funding these promises. “Last year, we enacted the largest increase in veterans’ health care in our nation’s history—strengthening benefits for more than 5 million veterans and adding over $16 billion for care and services over two years—including the expansion of PTSD screening and counseling. We also enacted a new GI bill to provide a full, four-year education to those who have served our nation. “Additionally, we are working to strengthen our military and address the worst U.S. military readiness crisis since the Vietnam War. The bipartisan defense authorization bill, which includes many provisions that I authored, will boost our current force strength, greatly improve our military readiness, and help ensure that we provide the best training, equipment, and deployment conditions for the men and women serving in our Armed Forces. “Our men and women should not get first-class weapons in battle only to receive third-class benefits when they return home from war. I am confident that Barack Obama, as president, will provide adequate funding for our warriors—not just for the wars in which they are fighting. I look forward to working with his administration to provide enhanced services to these men and women. On the battlefield, the military pledges to leave no soldier behind. We, as a nation, must pledge not to leave our veterans behind when they return home.” ###
10.28.2008	start text Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, sent the following letter to the Federal Maritime Commission: Dear Commissioners Dye, Creel, and Brennan: I write to you today to express my support for the recent actions of the Commission in allowing the implementation of the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach Cooperative Working Agreement. The Agreement will reduce truck emissions by a significant percentage within the next few years. While the Commission’s action authorizing the implementation of the Southern California plan has allowed the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach to begin roll out of their Clean Trucks Program, the Commission’s determination to continue to exert jurisdiction over the implementation of the agreement should provide necessary oversight to ensure that the actions taken by the Ports do not violate the prohibited actions of the Shipping Act of 1984. Further, while this Working Agreement is drastically different from carrier price fixing agreements, or carrier or marine terminal cooperative working agreements, I contend that it is important as we move forward to try to pro-actively help address growth issues in an accountable, environmentally safe and secure fashion. I ask that you keep my staff informed as you continue your oversight work. Thank you for your time and consideration of these comments. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Chair Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation ###
10.09.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: ‘Egregious Spending a Slap in the Face of American Taxpayers’ Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to media reports that AIG will cancel an event at the $400-a-night Ritz-Carlton to ‘motivate and educate’ independent agents: “I am somewhat relieved to hear that AIG has canceled their Ritz-Carlton conference, which was nothing less than a slap in the face of the American people. Men and women are working hard for their wages—many of them needing multiple jobs just to keep their heads above water as our nation’s economy drowns under the past 8 years of Bush-McCain economic policy. We absolutely MUST ensure that taxpayer dollars are being spent efficiently and effectively—and that the hardworking family on Main Street is not footing the bill for executive spa days on Wall Street. “Earlier this week, I joined Chairman Waxman and Representatives Braley and Speier in urging Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson to put an end to profligate spending. Yesterday, Mr. Paulson came forward in stating his support for ending such wasteful spending, and now I am urging him to go one step further. Secretary Paulson must demand that this type of behavior cease and desist immediately. The American public is now an 80% owner of AIG, and on behalf of every single American, I insist that Secretary Paulson publicly express his adamant commitment to ensuring that not a single penny of taxpayer dollars go toward funding this type of egregious expenditure. “I cannot fathom how in the same day—the very same day—that AIG asked the government for another $37.8 billion loan, the company would even consider moving forward with plans to host another large conference at another luxury resort. Any company that is taking money from my neighbor in Baltimore whose home is about to be foreclosed, or from the woman two blocks over who is working three jobs just to support her children should take every measure necessary to ensure that there is not even an appearance of excessive corporate spending. “There needs to be accountability in this process, and I join Senator Obama in his calls for AIG to repay the U.S. Treasury for the costs of its recent half-million dollar conference at the St. Regis resort. There needs to be an investigation, and people need to be fired. While I am glad that AIG canceled this particular event, I am still somewhat distressed that it took so long for such a decision to be made. It is my hope that AIG—and any other company relying on taxpayer dollars for aid—will exercise better judgment when it comes to company expenses. ###
10.09.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 'Congress Must Not Forget Main Street’ Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s potential plans to call lawmakers back to Washington after the November elections: “Last week, Democrats and Republicans came together to pass an $850 billion economic recovery package targeted at the crisis on Wall Street. Now, it is time for us to come together and pass a recovery package targeted directly at Main Street. Millions of families and individuals are struggling with all of their might to keep their heads above water as we are drowning in the fallout of the last 8 years of Bush-McCain economic policy. “Americans have lost more than 600,000 jobs this year, and with two people vying for every one job, many are unable to find new employment. People’s bank accounts are being drained at the gas pump and at the grocery store. More and more families are having their power shut off because they cannot afford their utility bills. As we enter the winter months, people are very worried about what sacrifices they need to make to afford to heat their homes. “The House passed a responsible stimulus package last month that would help many people hold on to their jobs, their homes, their health care—and their dreams. It would create new jobs by rebuilding our roads, bridges, and highways and by funding job training programs. It includes measures that have a proven history of immediately stimulating the economy by putting money in the hands of men and women who will immediately spend it—such as extending unemployment benefits and expanding food stamp benefits. It provides a temporary increase in the Federal Medical Assistant Percentage for Medicaid health costs, which would prevent cuts to health insurance and health care services for low-income children and families. “I fully support Speaker Pelosi’s plans to call Congress back to Washington after the November elections to pass an expanded version of this legislation. We, as lawmakers, simply cannot turn our backs on the people who are suffering the most in this economic crisis, and I am confident that my colleagues will agree on the need to continue the economic recovery by passing a responsible, common sense stimulus package that will benefit the people on Main Street.” ###
10.08.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings, Waxman, Braley, Speier Urge Paulson to Stop Profligate Spending by Corporations Washington, D.C.—Following a House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform hearing yesterday examining the $85 billion bailout of AIG and subsequent profligate spending by the company, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the Committee, joined Chairman Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.), Congressman Bruce Braley (D-Iowa), and Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-Calif.) in sending a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson, Jr., urging him to protect taxpayers’ dollars by putting an end to the spending (text of the letter below). “It is shocking to the conscience that AIG would take 85 billion taxpayer dollars to fund an executive spa week that included expensive resort suites, manicures, pedicures, massages, and bar tabs,” Congressman Cummings said. “If the Treasury Secretary allowed our taxpayer dollars to be wasted in this instance, how can Americans be confident that the $700 billion recovery package will be spent any differently?” Yesterday’s hearing was the second of five planned by the Oversight Committee to examine the causes that led to the nation’s recent financial meltdown. The hearing revealed numerous instances of extravagant spending by AIG, including a week-long, half-million dollar conference at an exclusive resort in California held only one week after the government bailout was signed. The hearing also revealed that AIG continues to pay one million dollars a month to a former executive who helped bring about the company’s downfall. “Every day, I see my neighbors in inner city Baltimore struggling to pay their bills, keep their homes, and feed their families while the government is spending billions of tax dollars on golden parachutes for executives who were reckless and irresponsible with their business practices,” Congressman Cummings said. “I sincerely hope that Mr. Paulson takes whatever measures are necessary to put an end to the wasteful spending of American tax dollars.” ### Text of the letter: October 7,2008 The Honorable Henry M. Paulson, Jr. Secretary U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20220 Dear Mr. Secretary: Today the Oversight Committee held a hearing examining the $85 billion government bailout of AIG. The hearing showed that even after the bailout, AIG has spent freely on executive compensation and perquisites. U.S. taxpayers are paying for AIG's profligate spending. Today's hearing revealed that shortly after the bailout was signed, executives from AIG's major U.S. life insurance subsidiary, AIG American General, held a week-long conference at an exclusive resort in California. The company spent nearly half a million dollars in a single week at this resort, including thousands of dollars on catered banquets, golf outings, and visits to the resort's spa and salon. The hearing also revealed that AIG continues to pay one million dollars a month to an official who helped bring about the company's downfall. This official, Joseph Cassano, is the former president of AIG's Financial Products division, the unit that sold the credit default swaps that caused billions in losses for AIG. Mr. Cassano resigned from his position in March 2008. Yet AIG has inexplicably decided to pay Mr. Cassano up to $34 million in unvested bonuses. Even today, it is continuing to employ him as a "consultant" for one million dollars a month. Secretary Paulson, this situation is unfair to taxpayers. AIG received $85 billion in taxpayer money, yet it continues to lavish its executives with undeserved payments and perquisites. We urge you to protect the taxpayers' money and end this profligate spending. Sincerely, Henry A. Waxman, Elijah E. Cummings, Bruce Braley, and Jackie Speier Members of Congress
10.03.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: ‘We Are the Last Line of Defense” Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee and former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, released the statement below following a press conference with Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards (D-Md.) announcing their support of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008: “This has been one of the most difficult votes of my 12 years in the Congress, and I know that my colleague, Donna Edwards, has shared this dilemma with me. There is no doubt among ANY of my colleagues that we need to take action, and that we need to act quickly. “Yesterday morning, one of my neighbors whose house is in foreclosure—a man who lives just a few doors down from me on Madison Avenue in Baltimore—summed it up best. He said, ‘Elijah, I have been hearing about this bill to help out Wall Street, but what is in the bill to help me? What is in there to help save my home?’ And, I had to tell him—not very much. “What we need is a balance—something that benefits everyone, on every street. We need something that does not just put a patch on the problem, but that gets to the heart of the problem to keep this from happening again in the future. Sadly—very sadly, this bill does not fully address those concerns. “At the same time, my stomach turns when I think about the men and women who have worked hard their entire lives who risk losing large portions of their savings if we do not act now. It literally makes me sick to think about these people waking up and finding that their portfolios have decreased by 30 percent. When I think about the young people in my home town of Baltimore who are relying on loans to go to college and uplift themselves and their communities—when I think about these students being shut out from education because they can’t get loans, it makes me ill. And, it makes me sick when I think about Drew Greenblatt, who came to my office yesterday because he is in danger of not being able to make his payroll—which would force him to begin laying off his employees—almost fifty of whom are my constituents in Baltimore. “This legislation is very far from perfect—but it is a necessary start. Ms. Edwards and I voted against the bill the first time it was on the House floor, and we are both original co-sponsors of an alternative plan authored by Representative DeFazio that offers a fiscally responsible alternative to a Wall Street bailout. “The legislation under consideration today includes some of the provisions of our alternative legislation—including increasing the FDIC limit. While we would like to see something more comprehensive, that is just not a possibility at this point. For days, I have wrestled with this decision, and there are ultimately three factors that tipped the scales in support of the bill. “One: I talked at length with Congressman Barney Frank last night about my concerns that there is not enough help for people facing foreclosure. We went through the pages of the bill together, and he showed me the measures included that will help men and women like my neighbor who are trying so desperately to cling to their dreams. It encourages servicers under the HOPE program to restructure loans whenever possible and allows renters to stay in foreclosed homes where permissible. I admit, what we discussed is not what I would like to see. More than anything, I want the government to allow bankruptcy judges to modify mortgages for primary residences. But, this is indeed a start. “Two: I talked at length with Speaker Pelosi, voicing my concerns that there is just not enough for the people of Madison Avenue in Baltimore. She assured me that this is not the end; rather, it is just the beginning. I have the utmost respect for her and take her at her word, and I am confident that the people in Baltimore—and throughout the rest of the country—have not been forgotten. This bill gives us the leverage we need to push through real reform to fix the problems that have brought us to the brink of the destruction of our economy. “Three: I talked at length with my good friend Senator Obama. Barack and I have always been on the same page about this issue. The two of us were warning our colleagues about predatory subprime lending long before it hit the headlines. I know that he understands the plight of the American family right now, and I know that he will be true to his heart on taking every single step necessary to fix our economy and restore people’s lifetime dreams once he is President. And, he has assured me that the Treasury Secretary in his administration will aggressively use the authorities granted to him or her in this bill. “There is no guarantee that this recovery package will work. But, what it will do is keep things from getting worse while we have time to go back to the drawing board and craft legislation that brings the reforms we really need—the reforms that President Obama will fully back. What it will do is make sure that Mr. Greenblatt will be able to keep his employees—and make sure he does not need to turn away contracts because he cannot get credit. “We—the U.S. Congress—are the last line of defense for men and women across the nation. We are their last hope. It is time for us to step up to the plate and lead. This is our watch, and we must act right now, for this very moment. I would have liked to see much more included in this package for the people back home in my district, and I give my word to everyone in the 7th District of Maryland that this is only the beginning and that they will not be forgotten. “For these reasons—because I believe that this is not the end, but is just the beginning—I have decided to support today’s legislation, and I encourage all of my colleagues to do the same.” ###
09.29.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement Against Wall Street Bailout Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in opposition to the federal bailout package for Wall Street: “When I leave my home in Baltimore every morning to drive to D.C., I am struck by the disastrous effects of the last 8 years of Bush-McCain economic policy. Homes that were once occupied by families living the American Dream are now boarded up because of foreclosures. Neighborhoods are falling apart. Individuals are suffering at the gas pumps, at the grocery stores, and in line at the unemployment office. “Now, we face the largest financial crisis since the Great Depression. There is no doubt that a strong federal response is necessary, but any response must contain strong oversight and accountability measures, assistance for the families who are in jeopardy of losing their homes due to predatory lending, and safeguards against golden parachutes for Wall Street executives. Congress simply cannot bail out Wall Street while at the same time bailing on Main Street. “I do not believe that we have explored or exhausted all possible options to directly ease the pressure on financial markets without causing an undue burden to taxpayers. This legislation just does not provide enough relief and protection for the hardworking men and women who are trying to make ends meet. “In addition to the acquisition of some of the financial system’s sound assets, any federal initiative should include federal capability to restructure mortgages for the men and women who are trying so desperately to keep their homes and salvage their families’ dreams. It must also include a substantial allocation toward initiatives that are proven to directly stimulate our economy—such as extended unemployment and food stamp benefits. “I am deeply concerned that there is no requirement that Wall Street take responsibility for the mess it helped to create. There is no meaningful limitation on golden parachutes for executives—who are still making millions of dollars a month even as average Americans continue to struggle to stay afloat. I am concerned that the board created to oversee this bailout is not offered the power to stop any irresponsible or questionable action. I am concerned that there are no safeguards against taxpayers being overcharged to buy these assets—or any guarantees that they will profit from these investments in the future. “While the federal government must act to keep our economy out of jeopardy, I am concerned that this proposal is lacking key provisions to protect taxpayers. Any measure we adopt must include strict oversight and safeguards against giving blank checks to corporate executives whose poor judgment has led us down this road, and that provides substantial relief to the millions of Americans who continue to suffer under the overbearing burden of our current economic state.” ###
09.26.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Urges Colleagues to Support Stimulus Package Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, urged his colleagues to approve a second economic stimulus package (H.R. 7110) to grow the U.S. economy, provide assistance to those who are struggling to find jobs or afford food for their families, and protect families from losing their health insurance due to state budget crises. “Last month, another 84,000 Americans lost their jobs, bringing the year’s total job loss to 605,000,” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation is critical not only to stimulate our failing economy that continues to suffer from the fallout of irresponsible Bush-McCain economic policies, but also to alleviate people’s fears that Congress is going to spend hundreds of billions of dollars to bailout Wall Street while at the same time bailing on Main Street.” The new stimulus package would provide an additional seven weeks of extended benefits for workers who have exhausted regular unemployment compensation, as well as an additional thirteen weeks of benefits for workers in states with high unemployment rates. It would also provide $500 million for job training programs—including $400 million for dislocated worker and youth employment activities and $100 million to provide customized help for workers receiving unemployment benefits. Additionally, the bill would direct $2.6 billion toward food stamp recipients, address rising food costs for seniors, people with disabilities, and very poor families with children. This year alone, approximately 27.8 million individuals relied on food stamps for assistance. The stimulus package would also provide a temporary increase in the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) for Medicaid health costs, which will prevent cuts to health insurance and health care services for the low-income children and families. “Our families are drowning in the faltering economy, trying to keep their heads above water as they are met with skyrocketing gas prices, home foreclosures, job losses, rising health insurance costs, and many other economic obstacles,” Congressman Cummings said. “This bill takes a necessary step in providing some relief to help those who are hurting the most—through efforts that have a proven history of success in stimulating our economy.” Other highlights of the bill include major investments in infrastructure, including $12.8 billion for aging highways and bridges, $3 billion to repair crumbling schools, and $1 billion for public housing, which will also create new jobs. It also includes investments in energy development to encourage the manufacture of cars with increased fuel efficiency, accelerate the development of renewable energy technologies, and modernize the electric grid to make energy infrastructure more secure and reliable. “Although I am disappointed that the Senate was unable to pass its version of the stimulus package today, I am still hopeful that we will be find a way to provide this necessary relief to both our economy and the men and women who are struggling to make ends meet,” Congressman Cummings said. ###
09.25.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congress Passes Legislation to Address Howard Street Tunnel Fire, Modernize Rail Service in Baltimore Bill enacts critical safety provisions, authorizes $60 million for Baltimore Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure, joined his colleagues in passing comprehensive rail legislation that includes provisions he authored to authorize $60 million for the replacement of antiquated tunnel infrastructure in Baltimore and address problems outlined in the National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) report on the 2001 Howard Street Tunnel fire in Baltimore. “As families continue to cope with skyrocketing gas prices and seek out alternative means of transportation, it is critical that we make sure our trains are running as efficiently and effectively as possible,” Congressman Cummings said. “There is simply no excuse for us to be running modern trains through tunnels that were built more than a century ago, and the $60 million that I secured in this bill is the first step in enhancing the efficiency of rail traffic in Maryland and the entire Northeast Corridor.” The bill would authorize $60 million to support the modernization of the rail tunnel infrastructure that carries all rail traffic on the Northeast Corridor through Baltimore. This includes the replacement of the Baltimore & Potomac (B&P) Tunnel, which was built in 1873 and imposes speed and height restrictions that inhibit the ability of modern trains to operate at full capability. Additionally, the bill includes language authored by Congressman Cummings that would require railroads to provide information to local jurisdictions regarding the entry and exit pathways of rail tunnels and types of cargo transported through them. The provisions were written in response to the massive fire caused in 2001 when a train derailed in the Howard Street Tunnel, puncturing several tank cars and igniting flammable liquid. Following the incident, the NTSB reported that first responders were lacking adequate information on hazardous discharge procedures in the tunnel. “The Howard Street Tunnel fire was a catastrophic eye-opener to the need for a massive safety overhaul of our nation’s railway systems, and these requirements are an essential preventive measure to protect us from experiencing such a devastating disaster on such a large scale again,” Congressman Cummings said. “I applaud my colleagues for joining me to support this important legislation, and I encourage President Bush to sign these safety and modernization bills into law.” ###
09.25.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Announces $2 Million for Coalition to End Childhood Lead Poisoning Baltimore, Md.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) announced $2 million in grant funding from the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Lead Elimination Action Grant Program (LEAP) to the Baltimore-based Coalition to End Childhood Lead Poisoning. “I have had the privilege of working closely with the Coalition for more than a decade, and I cannot speak highly enough about the impact this organization has made in the fight to protect our community’s children from lead,” Congressman Cummings said. “This grant will play a pivotal role in allowing the Coalition to continue its history of providing an environment for our young people that is free from this devastating toxin.” The money from the grant will be used to make 300 units in Baltimore City lead-safe. The effort will include training contractors, workers, and landlords in safe paint removal methods and providing outreach to over 15,000 Baltimore residents. Lead is a known toxin that can severely impair children’s development and may even cause death at high levels. Through efforts such as those of the Coalition, childhood lead poisoning in Baltimore has been reduced by 95 percent since 1993. “The relentless work of the Coalition is literally saving children’s lives, and this grant means a lead-free environment for hundreds more,” Congressman Cummings said. ###
09.23.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Applauds $75 Million for Fisheries Disasters Funds would be applied to disaster declaration for Chesapeake Bay blue crab Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a member of the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Task Force released the following statement after the announcement of the inclusion of $75 million in funding for declared fisheries disasters across the country in the final spending package for the session. This announcement comes on the heels of yesterday’s decision by Department of Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez to support Governor Martin O’Malley’s request for a disaster declaration for the Chesapeake Bay blue crab. “The Maryland Blue Crab is one of the greatest symbols of our State, and its survival is essential to the survival of our State’s economy. Commercial crabbers have witnessed a dramatic decline in their harvests—70 percent since the 1990’s—and with the industry facing a 34 percent reduction in the female crab harvest, the industry is truly in a state of disaster. As Marylanders continue to struggle through the consequences of the poor economic policies championed by President Bush and John McCain, it is even more critical that we provide federal assistance to the watermen and crab processors whose livelihoods depend on this industry. “I applaud the hard work by my colleagues Senator Mikulski and Congressman Ruppersberger in securing these funds as part of the greater goal of the entire Maryland delegation to protect the Chesapeake Bay and keep our State’s economy afloat.” ###
09.21.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Bush Administration Proposal To Address Financial Crisis Washington, D.C. – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement on the Bush Administration’s legislative proposal to confront the crisis facing our economy: “After a briefing with Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, I remain concerned that the proposal by the Bush Administration to bail out Wall Street fails to provide any real relief to the hard-working Americans who are suffering to make ends meet due to the poor economic policy decisions of the past 8 years. “While action must be taken to prevent the collapse of our financial markets, there is nothing in the Administration’s $700 billion proposal to assist families in jeopardy of losing their homes to foreclosure. There are no strong oversight and accountability measures to protect taxpayers as the Treasury Secretary gains vast new powers to attempt to stabilize the mortgage market. Further, the plan includes no true economic stimulus to move our country in a new and stronger direction. “This bailout plan cannot simply be another rescue for the richest among us. The historic crisis of our financial markets affects every single American. If the federal government is going to continue to support the economy, we must take a comprehensive approach to restore stability and confidence in the U.S. financial system and provide real economic recovery to Americans of all income levels.” # # #
09.17.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings, 55 Members of Congress Request Funds for Job Corps Department of Labor Program Provides Critical Assistance to At-Risk Youth Washington, D.C.—This week, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, led fifty-five of his Democratic and Republican colleagues in sending a letter to House leadership requesting the appropriation of $50 million in funding for the Department of Labor’s Job Corps Program in an upcoming economic stimulus bill (Text of the letter below). “As Maryland families continue to struggle with the consequences of the Bush-McCain economic policies that have led to the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, it becomes even more critical that we provide funding for the tried and true methods of stimulating our economy,” Congressman Cummings said. “For nearly fifty years, the Job Corps Program has uplifted more than 2 million young people, providing them with the resources necessary to become contributing members of society.” Job Corps is a no-cost education and vocational training program that enrolls people ages 16-24 to learn a trade, earn a high school diploma or GED, and get help finding a good school. When they join the program, participants are provided with a monthly allowance that increases with their time in the program. There are currently 122 Job Corps centers throughout the U.S., including the Woodstock Job Corps Center in the Baltimore area. Over the past ten years, nearly 3,000 students have been enrolled at Woodstock, and nearly 800 economically disadvantaged youth are provided with academic and vocational training there in any given year. “Twelve million students are expected to drop out of high school this year, representing a $3 trillion loss to the U.S. economy,” Congressman Cummings said. “We simply cannot allow these young people to drop out of society, as well—which is why we must fully support programs like Job Corps.” Years of static funding, combined with a drastic $11 million cut in FY2008 and an increasingly weak economy have devastated the program. The program is expected to face an operational funding shortfall of up to $127 million in the current program year. The letter was sent to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader John Boehner, and Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey and Ranking Member Jerry Lewis. Text of the letter: Dear Speaker Pelosi, Minority Leader Boehner, Chairman Obey and Ranking Member Lewis: We are writing to request that $50 million for the U.S. Department of Labor’s Job Corps Program be included in any upcoming stimulus supplemental appropriations bill. This critical program has the proven potential to stimulate the economy by giving disadvantaged youth the opportunity to become consumers, taxpayers, and contributing members of society. Job Corps is a no-cost education and vocational training program that helps young people ages 16 through 24 get a better job, make more money, and take control of their lives. At Job Corps, students enroll to learn a trade, earn a high school diploma or GED and get help finding a good job. When they join the program, youth are paid a monthly allowance; the longer they stay with the program, the more their allowance will be. Job Corps provides career counseling and transition support to its students for up to 12 months after they graduate from the program. For 42 years, Job Corps has served as our nation’s most successful dropout recovery program, providing training to 2.5 million graduates. There are currently 122 Job Corps centers throughout the country serving approximately 62,000 disadvantaged youth each year. Years of static funding, combined with a drastic cut of $11 million in fiscal year 2008 have devastated the program. This problem is further exacerbated by the weakened economy. According to an analysis conducted by the National Job Corps Association, the program faces an estimated $84 million to $127 million operational funding shortfall in the current program year. This shortfall comes at a time when the services that Job Corps offers are in high demand. In the coming decade, 12 million students are projected to drop out of high school, representing a $3 trillion loss to the economy. Job Corps helps lift up those youth who have fallen through the cracks. An additional $50 million for the Job Corps program’s student living allowances and readjustment assistance allowances will make a tremendous difference for youth and their communities on Main Streets across the country. The requested funding will be utilized to enhance student employment services and ensure that more students are able to complete the program. Job Corps students use this funding to purchase dress attire for their first job interview or to get the tools they need to begin their careers as craftsmen. Funding for Job Corps living allowances has decreased by more than 10 percent in the last five years. Similarly, Job Corps graduates receive re-adjustment allowances that assist their transition back into their community and into their first job. This funding is used to pay the first month’s rent on their first apartment, to help find transportation they need to get to their job, or to simply buy their first bag of groceries. Living allowances and re-adjustment are immediately injected into the economy by youth who are using the dollars to get their feet on the ground. These funds have not increased in over 10 years. We can attest to the critical impact the Job Corps program has made to disadvantaged youth in our communities, and we therefore appreciate your attention to this important request. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Michael H. Michaud (D-Maine), Brad Miller (D-N.C.), Luis G. Fortuño (R-P.R.), Maurice D. Hinchey (D-N.Y.), William J. Jefferson (D-La.), Michael F. Doyle (D-Pa.), Bruce L. Braley (D-Iowa), Travis W. Childers (D-Miss.), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-N.J.), Neil Abercrombie (D-Hawaii), Henry Cuellar (D-Texas), David Wu (D-Ore.), Silvestre Reyes (D-Texas), Betty Sutton (D-Ohio), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-Texas), Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.), Bob Etheridge (D-N.C.), John Sarbanes (D-Md.), Christopher P. Carney (D-Pa.), Ron Paul (R-Texas), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.), Jim Matheson (D-Utah), Laura Richardson (D-Calif.), Frank D. Lucas (R-Okla.), Mazie K. Hirono (D-Hawaii), Vic Snyder (D-Ariz.), Dale E. Kildee (D-Mich.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), John Lewis (D-Ga.), Bennie G. Thompson (D-Miss.), Charles A. Gonzalez (D-Texas), Linda T. Sánchez (D-Calif.), Phil Hare (D-Ill.), Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.), Lois Capps (D-Calif.), Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-Ga.), Joe Courtney (D-Conn.), Barbara Lee (D-Calif.), Richard E. Neal (D-Mass.), James P. McGovern (D-Mass.), Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Stephen F. Lynch (D-Mass.), Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), Chaka Fattah (D-Pa.), David Scott (D-Ga.), Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-Va.), Thomas H. Allen (D-Maine), Edolphus Towns (D-N.Y.), Heath Shuler (D-N.C.), Donna Edwards (D-Md.) ###
09.16.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: ‘Coast Guard Must Act with a Sense of Urgency’ Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the following statement in response to the Subcommittee’s hearing this morning examining the circumstances surrounding the collision of a tanker and a barge that resulted in the release of nearly 300,000 gallons of oil into the Mississippi River over the summer: “There is clearly a significant deficit in the regulation of the towing industry, the scope of which became alarmingly evident this morning. “It is unfathomable to me that within two weeks, the same company would be involved in two marine casualties while illegally operating towing vessels—one of which resulted in the release of nearly 300,000 gallons of oil into the Mississippi River, shutting down a portion of this vital artery of commerce for nearly a week. Worse yet, this is not the first instance in which this company has been caught operating towing vessels with improperly licensed personnel. It is simply unacceptable that a company with such a history would be allowed to continue its illegal—and, frankly, unsafe—practices. “In 2004, the U.S. Coast Guard was ordered by law to create a rule that would require the inspection of towing vessels. Additionally, it was authorized to set limits on the number of hours that crewmembers work each day. Neither set of rules has been issued. And, here we are, four years later, discussing a catastrophic incident that may very well have been prevented had the Coast Guard taken action. “One of the most important elements of effective leadership is possessing a sense of urgency and effectively acting on that urgency. Failure to do so inevitably leads to problems such as the one we see today—the release of a harmful pollutant into our environment, wreaking havoc on marine life as well as on the industries that depend on commerce along the Mississippi River. “The lack of resources and personnel for the Coast Guard to fulfill its increased responsibilities is an issue that our Subcommittee examines regularly. I am completely committed to ensuring that the Coast Guard has all of the resources necessary to effectively and efficiently perform all of its duties. However, increased resources are only as useful as their implementation, and I remain concerned that there is a lack of motivation within the Coast Guard to complete its backlog of rulemakings—including those related to the towing industry. “I told the Coast Guard today that it must give the Congress specific details of what is needed to address issues such as the backlog of rulemaking and enforcement of rules. While I assured the Service that my colleagues on the Subcommittee and I will work to provide those resources, I emphasized that these resources must be met with the motivation that is necessary to get things done. Rear Admiral Watson assured us this morning that the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for towing inspections would be issued in the Spring of 2009, and we will strictly hold them to that commitment.” ###
09.11.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on 9/11 Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement honoring the remembrance of the seventh anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks: “Seven years ago today, thousands of innocent men, women, and children were brutally attacked and killed by men filled with hatred of the democratic principles of our nation. Millions more were left standing with the loss of their family members and friends. Our nation—and our world—will never be the same. “That morning, our nation embarked upon a tireless journey that we still continue today. True heroes came forward in the form of first responders, law enforcement personnel, and volunteers to aid these victims, often at the risk—and in many cases the sacrifice—of their own lives. In the past seven years, thousands of additional heroes have continued in this spirit, protecting our nation on the battlefields of Afghanistan and Iraq. “Our determination to ensure that all critical steps are being taken to improve our homeland security and disrupt and defeat terrorist organizations is as strong as ever. The Democratic-led Congress has stepped to the forefront in reaching these goals. Our very first bill in the 110th Congress was to implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission which were neglected for too long. “Likewise, we are strengthening the oversight and accountability for our nation’s wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. We will not sit idly by while the Bush administration continues its failed policies in Iraq—a war which should never have been entered in the first place—while refusing to institute the multilateral diplomacy needed to bring true political reconciliation and stability into the country. “Furthermore, we will not allow this administration to continue neglecting to give Afghanistan the attention that is necessary to protect our nation from future attacks. Just yesterday, Admiral Michael Mullen, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, testified before the House Armed Services Committee that we are losing our war in this nation. This is unnecessary and unacceptable, and my colleagues and I will continue to be relentless in our demands for a renewed focus and a strategic military and diplomatic plan of action. “Today, as we remember those who have fallen—both in the initial attack on our nation and on the battlefield in its aftermath—I call on my fellow Americans to join me in renewing our commitment to protecting our country, our families, and the men and women who continue to fight for this cause.” ###
09.11.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 House Passes Critical Fix to Highway Trust Fund Legislation restores $8 billion to fix shortfall in funds promised to states for transportation infrastructure Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, joined his colleagues in supporting the final passage of H.R. 6532, which would restore $8 billion to the Highway Trust Fund used to finance our nation’s transportation infrastructure. “With so many other problems weighing down American families right now, we do not need the added burden of fears about bridges collapsing beneath us as we drive home from work or take our children to school,” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation is absolutely crucial in ensuring that our states have the monies promised to them for the critical projects that keep our roads, bridges, and other transportation infrastructure intact.” The Highway Trust Fund is sustained by revenues from the gas tax, and the account is experiencing declining revenue resulting from the weakening economy, as car sales are down and people substitute public transportation for driving in response to high gas prices. Without this legislative fix, which restores $8 billion that was borrowed by the General Fund, the U.S. Department of Transportation would begin reimbursing states at less than 100 percent of the amounts of money promised by the federal government for transportation projects. The State of Maryland is projected to receive more than $611 million from the Highway Trust Fund in fiscal year 2009; without the fix, the State would lose more than $190 million of that funding. The legislation comes on the heels of an announcement yesterday by Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley that a decline in revenue from taxes on gas and vehicle titling will force the State to cut $1.1 billion in transportation funding—a problem being faced by states throughout the country. “The deficits in funding for transportation projects are a cause for deep concern, and they underscore a larger problem being experienced throughout our entire nation as we continue to cope with the effects of Bush-McCain economic policies,” Congressman Cummings said. “While there is no overnight solution to generate the revenues necessary to maintain and strengthen our infrastructure, my colleagues and I will continue taking all of the necessary steps to ensure that we are able to see this crisis through.” The Senate passed the companion bill last night, and it will now be sent to the President, who is expected to sign it into law. ###
09.10.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: ‘Coast Guard Cannot Reach Its Destination Without A Map’ Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the following statement after a Subcommittee hearing examining diversity in the Coast Guard—including the recruitment, promotion, and retention of minority personnel: “Increasing diversity in the Armed Forces is bigger than the advancement of racial and ethnic minorities and women. It is about ensuring that the men and women who have dedicated themselves to serving our country are fully prepared to confront the challenges of the 21st century. We must ensure that each branch of the U.S. military is taking all of the steps necessary today to increase our readiness tomorrow. “Today’s hearing offered the opportunity to learn about the important leadership and diversity initiatives being introduced by the U.S. Coast Guard. I was pleased to hear of the Service’s efforts to strengthen outreach to institutions that traditionally serve minority students, as well as its goal of expanding its pre-commissioning program for college students to institutions with more diverse student populations. “However, it became clear that the Coast Guard lacks clearly defined goals and measures. When an organization cannot clearly see its end destination, it becomes difficult to efficiently and effectively complete the journey. It is critical that the Coast Guard be able to outline in very specific terms the diversity goals it is working to achieve, as well as the methods by which it will assess its progress toward the achievement of these goals. Furthermore, these goals and measures should be transparent and publicized so that everyone can understand and contribute to their achievement. “The Coast Guard has repeatedly shown an unrivaled service to our nation, and I will continue working both with its members as well as with my colleagues on the Subcommittee to ensure that it has all of the necessary policies in place to create a Service that accurately reflects the diversity of the nation it is committed to protect.” ###
09.09.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Joined by Colleagues in Recognizing Importance of USS Constellation Resolution acknowledges role ship played in abolishing the Transatlantic Slave Trade Washington, DC—Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution introduced by Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, to recognize the historical significance of the USS Constellation and acknowledge it as an appropriate site to commemorate the bicentennial of the abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade in the United States. “The USS Constellation represents a shining moment in one of the darkest points of our nation’s history, and I am honored to officially recognize its significance to our country,” Congressman Cummings said. “The efforts and accomplishments of the Constellation’s crew helped lead not only to the liberation of thousands of Africans, but also to the liberation from oppression and ignorance.” The Transatlantic Slave Trade became illegal in 1808, and the USS Constellation was one of the ships used to enforce the law, sailing to West Africa as a flagship of the eight-ship U.S. African Squadron. From 1859-1861, the USS Constellation and African Squadron captured a record fourteen slave ships and liberated nearly 4,000 Africans destined for a life of servitude. On September 25, 2008, the USS Constellation Museum in Baltimore, Md., will hold a ceremony aboard the ship to commemorate the bicentennial of the abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade. “The commemoration of the end of the Transatlantic Slave Trade is an important reminder of the great strides we have made as a nation toward a society that respects the equality of every single human being,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is with great pride that we recognize such an important journey aboard the USS Constellation, which rests in my hometown of Baltimore.” ###
08.22.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on the Death of Gene Upshaw Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, released the following statement upon learning of the death of Gene Upshaw, former NFL player and NFL Union Chief: “It is with a heavy heart that I offer my condolences to the family and loved ones of Gene Upshaw. I had the honor and pleasure of meeting Mr. Upshaw when he testified before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee regarding the investigation of steroid use among NFL players, and I was immediately impressed with the high measure of character and integrity that he possessed. “Mr. Upshaw embodied many of the qualities that have become increasingly rare among individuals in high profile positions. He was knowledgeable, straightforward, honest, and sincerely committed to finding a reasonable resolution to the issue of steroid use in professional sports. He conveyed a clear understanding of and commitment to balancing the needs and concerns of the players he represented with upholding the integrity of a game that is deeply embedded in the fabric of American society. “This was a man who showed a genuine interest in uplifting our young people and ensuring that they look up to and emulate professional athletes who are worthy of being role models. I left our encounter with a phenomenal respect for this man, and his death is truly a loss for the game of football and for our country. My thoughts and prayers are with those who are suffering with the loss of such a great man.” ###
08.20.2008	Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, released the following statement in response to the death of Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones (D-Ohio) due to a hemorrhage caused by a brain aneurysm: "Stephanie Tubbs Jones was a woman who fought until the very end to uplift and protect the men and women in Ohio's 11th District. Her death is a loss not only to her constituents and her colleagues in the U.S Congress, but to the entire nation. I extend my deepest prayers to her family and loved ones as they face this tragedy. "Congresswoman Tubbs Jones was the first African American woman to represent Ohio in the U.S. Congress and to sit on the powerful Ways and Means Committee. Her life's achievements are both an inspiration and a great symbol of the progress our nation has made in recognizing the equality of every human being, regardless of race, religion, gender, or any other factor. "The dedication shown by Ms. Tubbs Jones toward her job and her constituents was an example for all Members of Congress, and I was honored to work with this great woman. She will truly be missed." ###
08.13.2008	start text Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext In another affirming sign that Team Maryland is ready and committed to ensuring the smoothest possible transition of mission and jobs from Fort Monmouth in Monmouth County, New Jersey, to Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) in Harford County, Maryland, a Government Accountability Office (GAO) assessment released this afternoon noted the Army is aware of and prepared for any potential challenges and has a strategy in place for the full implementation of the move. A copy of the report is available at: https://www.gao.gov. In December 2007, Army Material Command developed a step-by-step timeline for moving assets into Maryland and a detailed funding plan to support the movement of over 5,000 high tech jobs from Fort Monmouth to APG while ensuring no disruption in support for the warfighter. Today’s GAO report determines that the Army’s strategy, outlined in the December report, effectively accomplishes the moves of missions and jobs to APG while oversight mechanisms will allow the Army to address the challenges associated with the transition of such a highly skilled workforce. The GAO report also provides valuable insight for the Army and members of Team Maryland for how to ensure the most seamless move of these jobs and missions to APG. “Today’s report tells us what we already know: the Army and the Department of Defense (DOD) have a detailed and comprehensive plan to ensure the successful implementation of the BRAC recommendation that creates a new Joint Center of Excellence at APG,” said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, chair of the Maryland delegation and a senior member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Committee. “I am committed to fighting for whatever support and resources are needed to provide tools and equipment for a seamless transition.” “In 2005, the BRAC Commission concluded that moving much of Fort Monmouth’s mission to Aberdeen Proving Ground would strengthen the Army’s ability to meet its current mission and adapt to future challenges,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin. “Today’s report affirms that the Army has the right mechanisms in place to execute the move.” “I’m pleased that today’s GAO report confirms that the upcoming move from Fort Monmouth to Aberdeen Proving Ground is on track to be a success,” said Congressman Steny Hoyer. “This affirms the positive partnership first created during the BRAC rounds in the 1990s when Maryland successfully absorbed a significant influx of Department of Defense workers through strong local, state, federal, and private partnerships. We are poised once again to have a smooth and seamless transition.” “This new GAO report is a reaffirmation of the BRAC recommendations to consolidate missions at Aberdeen Proving Ground,” said Congressman Roscoe Bartlett, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “The GAO report provides assurance that plans are in place to support the smoothest possible transition of the missions and jobs from Fort Monmouth to Aberdeen Proving Ground.” “This BRAC decision has now been addressed in multiple reports, as well as in Congressional hearings, and we continue to see that the Fort Monmouth move is a good move, both for the State of Maryland and for our national security,” said Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a member of the House Armed Services Committee and Readiness Subcommittee. “This most recent GAO report indicates that many of the key challenges we are facing are consistent with those of other 2005 BRAC decisions. It provides a clear analysis of the key challenges being faced by this move, allowing us to ensure that the necessary steps are taken to safeguard its rapid implementation in the most effective and efficient manner possible – including the Army’s ability to directly hire employees, establish necessary infrastructure, and secure proper funding.” “Today’s GAO report confirms what we already know,” said Congressman Chris Van Hollen. “The 2005 BRAC recommendations will bring both opportunities and challenges to our state, but will ultimately make both our military and our region stronger.” “Team Maryland is diligently working together to ensure a smooth transition as more jobs move from New Jersey to Maryland through the BRAC process. The GAO study proves that Maryland is successfully doing this. Maryland is at the ready to support the warfighter and make sure there is no disruption in their mission,” said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. “This report again confirms the BRAC Commission’s sound logic for this move to Aberdeen Proving Ground and Maryland,” said Congressman John Sarbanes. “We continue to work diligently at the federal, state, and local levels to help the Army complete this transition, with a focus on maintaining the environmental integrity and quality of life of Maryland’s communities.” “The new GAO report erases all doubt that Maryland’s Aberdeen Proving Ground is the right location,” said Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards. “I look forward to working with members of the Maryland Delegation to help ensure a seamless transition for all those involved.” The 2005 BRAC recommendations will bring thousands of new employees to the state. This includes 10,000 new jobs that will never leave the country, in addition to 85,000 existing jobs on bases and up to 40,000 non-direct jobs. ###
08.07.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings, Department of Commerce, Local Officials Present Development Award to EBDI EBDI has achieved great success in the redevelopment of East Baltimore Baltimore, Md.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-7) joined State Senator Nathanial McFadden, Baltimore City Council President Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development Deputy Secretary Clarence Bishop, and Patty Sheetz from the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration (EDA) to present EDA’s 2008 Excellence in Urban and Suburban Economic Development Award to East Baltimore Development, Inc., (EBDI), in recognition of its historic accomplishments in the $1.8 billion redevelopment project for East Baltimore. EBDI, a private non-profit organization that is transforming more than 88 acres of historic East Baltimore into a mixed-income community, was selected for the award from a pool of 98 applicants from government agencies across the country. Specifically, it is being recognized for its Responsible Community and Economic Development Initiative, which addresses the physical, human, and economic conditions of a neighborhood in a comprehensive plan for revitalization. “I am extremely proud that the U.S. Economic Development Administration has selected EBDI as an Excellence in Economic Development Award recipient,” Congressman Cummings said. “This outstanding achievement recognizes EBDI’s innovative and groundbreaking approach to urban economic development. EBDI is looking beyond buildings to utilize this development project to empower people and rebuild communities. This selection demonstrates that this project, which promises to benefit the entire City of Baltimore, can truly be a model for our entire nation.” “Baltimore is, once again, being recognized as having an innovative model to the traditional urban renewal approach, just as the Inner Harbor was several decades ago,” said John (Jack) T. Shannon, Jr., President and CEO, EBDI. “In breaking this new ground, EBDI is fortunate to have City leadership with the vision and commitment to realizing positive, long-term change in our communities.” “We are pleased to announce that East Baltimore Development Inc., of Baltimore, Maryland has been chosen as the winner of the U.S. Economic Development Administration’s Excellence in Economic Development Award in the category of Urban or Suburban Economic Development. Excellence Award winners represent the best and brightest in 21st century economic development and they exemplify the importance of building the regional strategies needed for American communities to succeed in the global marketplace and create higher-skill, higher-wage jobs,” said Ms. Patty Sheetz, Director, Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs for EDA. ###
08.04.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman Cummings Delivers Keynote Address at BERTHOLF Commissioning Alameda, Calif.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, joined Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff and Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thad Allen for the commissioning of the USCGC BERTHOLF as the keynote speaker. The BERTHOLF is the first of eight new national security cutters to be constructed for the Coast Guard under the Deepwater Acquisitions Program—a 25-year, $24 billion program to replace or rehabilitate all of the Service’s major air and sea vessels. The ship will be critical in providing the Coast Guard with the most advanced operational capabilities currently available, enabling them to perform all of their missions in a post-9/11 environment. Below are the Congressman’s prepared remarks: Prepared Remarks of Chairman Elijah E. Cummings Upon the Commissioning of the BERTHOLF August 4, 2008 Thank you, Captain Wisniewski,for your kind words of introduction. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, I am deeply honored to join Secretary Chertoff, Admiral Allen, Vice Admiral Pekoske, Mr. Mike Petters, Mr. Fred Moosally, Captain Patrick Stadt, Command Master Chief Montague, and the crew of the BERTHOLF in commissioning this cutter today. Earlier this summer, I had the opportunity to tour the BERTHOLF when it visited my hometown of Baltimore before beginning its transit to the West Coast. I know first-hand that the ship we commission today will be the most capable the Coast Guard has ever sailed – one that will carry the men and women who serve on it through the eyes of countless storms and return them safely back to their families ashore. I can also think of no better day on which to commission this vessel than today, August 4, the anniversary of the day in 1790 when Congress created the Revenue Cutter Service and approved the funding needed to build the first 10 revenue cutters. From that year until today, the Coast Guard has been essential to ensuring the success and safety of our nation’s vital maritime commerce – and I honor the thousands of Americans who have served our nation in all of the Coast Guard’s precursor services. Over the past 218 years, the Coast Guard’s missions have grown to encompass an awesome range of responsibilities – from rescuing those in danger at sea, to defending our homeland from hostile threats, to stewarding the natural resources of the marine environment, to responding to national emergencies. During my tenure as Chairman, I have watched the Coast Guard continue to raise the bar of excellence by reaching new milestones during the performance of its missions. Last year, for example, we celebrated the Coast Guard’s achievement of an impressive new record for drug seizures. The service removed 355,755 pounds of cocaine with an estimated street value of more than $4.7 billion from circulation. As a resident of inner city Baltimore, I truly appreciate that every ounce of illegal drugs the Coast Guard seizes at sea is an ounce that cannot reach our nation’s streets to threaten another life. In 2007, the Coast Guard also celebrated the incredible milestone of having saved one million lives since 1790, when the Revenue Cutter Service was founded. In fact, even before I became Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, I had the honor of witnessing one of the great acts of heroism in our nation’s history – and that was the rescue of the victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. During those terrible days in the late summer of 2005, the Coast Guard rescued more than 24,200 lives – and evacuated an additional 9,400 patients and medical personnel – from the Gulf Coast. And again in the past two weeks, the Coast Guard has responded to another tragedy in New Orleans after a barge and tanker collided, spilling more than 400,000 gallons of oil into the Mississippi River – which is not only the source of New Orleans’ drinking water, but also a vital artery of commerce. I commend the Coast Guard for their rapid response to contain the spill caused by this incident. These amazing accomplishments are perhaps all the more impressive because in many cases, the Coast Guard’s achievements are made using ships that are twice as old – or older – than many of the crew members who serve on them. Just last week, I visited Coast Guard units in North Carolina – including the crew of the cutter DILIGENCE. As I’m sure many of you know first-hand, the differences between that ship—commissioned in 1964—and the BERTHOLF could hardly be more stark. I am speaking not only in terms of mission capabilities but also in terms of living conditions aboard ship – which I know make a significant difference to the lives of the Coast Guardsmen and women who, over the course of their careers, spend years afloat away from their families. I often say that the Coast Guard is our thin blue line at sea. For too long, we have been stretching that line by placing new responsibilities on the Coast Guard faster than we have given the service new resources. Most recently, following the 9/11 attacks, the Coast Guard’s responsibilities expanded to include significant new homeland security duties. There has never been any doubt in my mind that the Coast Guard has the leadership, dedication, and skills to effectively fulfill these critical duties – and to balance them with the service’s traditional missions, such as marine safety and search and rescue. As Admiral Allen has explained, the appointment of Commandant Bertholf marked a new era in the Coast Guard’s history when the Revenue Cutter Service and the Life-Saving Service were merged to form the Coast Guard. I am hopeful that today, we are commissioning not only a new vessel but another new era, when the Coast Guard will have material assets equal to your mission needs. The BERTHOLF is planned to be followed by seven more National Security Cutters as well as Offshore Patrol Cutters and Fast Response Cutters – all of which are being developed under the $24 billion, 25-year Deepwater procurement program. Deepwater is essential to recapitalizing the Coast Guard with the vessels on which the service will depend for decades to come. As Subcommittee Chairman, one of my highest priorities has been to ensure that these procurements meet all contractual obligations as well as the standards of quality and reliability that the American taxpayers rightly expect of all assets paid for with their money — and that I know the Coast Guard expects of itself in the performance of its duties. Today, I applaud the many steps Admiral Allen has taken to strengthen all aspects of the Coast Guard’s management and operations – including its acquisitions functions. I have the utmost confidence in Admiral Allen’s ability to pilot the Coast Guard through this time of change – and I look forward to continuing to work with him to position the Coast Guard to meet the challenges of the 21st century with a 21st century organizational structure. I will also continue to fight in the Congress to ensure that the Coast Guard has all of the resources it needs to succeed – and I will give my full support to the effort to grow the Coast Guard to a size that is equal to the demands our nation makes of it. To the crew of the BERTHOLF – including Captain Stadt and all of the men and women here today, I congratulate you for your selection to serve on this commissioning crew. You have been chosen to participate in the making of history by literally sailing the Coast Guard into a new era. You, perhaps more than anyone, understand what the addition of this vessel to the Coast Guard’s fleet truly means. Over the past two months, you have navigated the BERTHOLF for thousands of miles – including through the Panama Canal – testing the ship’s capabilities and learning how to make it function at the peak of efficiency. Last month in Baltimore, I had the opportunity to talk to several of you about this ship – and Captain Stadt, I can tell you that the enthusiasm of your crew for their ship is awesome and infectious. Finally, to all of the Members of the Coast Guard here today, on behalf of the United States Congress, I express my gratitude – and the gratitude of our nation – for your service. I honor every one of the nearly 42,000 men and women of the active duty Coast Guard – as well as the more than 8,000 members of the Coast Guard Reserve, the 30,000 members of the Coast Guard Auxiliary and the more than 7,000 civilian personnel – who together form our “Shield of Freedom,” and I wish the crew of this vessel – and every Coast Guard vessel – God speed in all their voyages. Thank you. ###
08.04.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Convenes Field Hearing on Port Infrastructure Development and Emissions Control in Los Angeles and Long Beach Long Beach, Calif.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the following statement at the adjournment of a Subcommittee hearing he convened to examine the efforts of the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach to meet infrastructure needs and reduce emissions from port-related activities—including from trucks that provide services at the ports, as well as vessels in transit to and from the ports: “The Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach together form the largest port complex in the U.S., and they face a difficult challenge of balancing the need to grow their infrastructure to meet increasing cargo demand with the need to reduce emissions. The efforts being implemented by these ports to address these challenges are of interest not only to this Subcommittee, but to ports throughout the nation—including the port in my hometown of Baltimore. These two ports are not alone in their urgent needs to generate the revenue necessary to maintain and improve their infrastructure. From highways to railroads to ports, U.S. infrastructure is starving for investment. Individual communities and ports simply cannot solve these problems on their own, and we must recommit our nation to the value of maintaining the arteries that carry the commerce on which our economy depends. “Additionally, the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach have undertaken a serious effort to improve the quality of air through their Clean Trucks Program. While the details of this program are complicated and are currently being challenged, its scope underscores the scope of the pollution problems that these ports and their surrounding communities are facing. “Today’s hearing offered us great insight into the complexities of the problems we must address, and I look forward to working with these ports, and with all of the Members of Congress who gathered today, to introduce and enact the measures we need to face these challenges.” ###
07.30.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: 'CPSC Bill is Just a First Step' Congressman applauds legislation, reiterates need for oversight Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement regarding H.R. 4040, the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act Conference Report, which is scheduled to be considered by the House of Representatives later today: “Last year was a very disturbing year for parents across the country, as we watched toy after toy flashing across the news screen with headlines of toxic levels of lead in their paint, hazards caused by small parts falling off and being swallowed, and chemicals—including gamma-Hydroxy butyrate (GHB)—the Date Rape Drug—at levels high enough to put our children into comas. That so many toys were able to slip through the cracks and into the toy stores was shocking to the conscience and completely unacceptable. “Today, my colleagues and I will be considering final passage of an important piece of toy safety legislation that takes the first step in restoring consumer confidence in the aftermath of the Year of the Recall. This legislation sets the highest standards in the world for lead in toys and children’s jewelry. It strengthens the ability of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to notify consumers about dangerous products. It bans the importation of toys and other children’s products that have not been tested and do not conform to U.S. standards. And, very importantly, it offers a significant budget increase for the CPSC so that this agency—whose operation is critical to protecting U.S. consumers—can begin employing the staff that is necessary to fulfill its mission. “However, while this bill is an important step in protecting children, we must not forget that it is only a first step. The new authorities offered to the CPSC are only as effective as the agency’s willingness to implement them. My colleagues and I will be watching the CPSC very closely to ensure that it is exercising the necessary oversight and authority to protect our children from undue harm—particularly with regulations on proprietary labs performing tests on children’s products. The highest lead standards in the world mean nothing if their enforcement is inadequate or non-existent. “Additionally, we must not allow toy manufacturers to forget their ultimate responsibility in ensuring that the shelves of our toy stores—and of our children’s bedrooms—are not being stocked with toxic toys and other hazardous products. While it is important to have an agency such as the CPSC as an added safety net, the toy industry has a responsibility to implement whatever practices are necessary to comply with the standards that have been established to keep our children healthy and happy. I have been and will continue to be holding discussions with the leaders of the toy industry to ensure that such safety measures are in place and in practice. “I encourage all of my colleagues to join me today in supporting the well-being of our children by supporting this toy safety legislation, and continuing to move forward on this important issue.” ###
07.29.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl (Cummings) 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Jon Schneider (Bishop)631.696.6500 Bishop, Cummings to Introduce Bill to Create National Strategy for Natural Gas Supply Washington, D.C.—On Wednesday, July 30, Congressmen Tim Bishop (D-N.Y.) and Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) will introduce the Natural Gas Strategy Act to develop a national commission that will examine the adequacy of current federal policies governing the siting of natural gas infrastructure. The commission would study how effectively the current regulatory structures meet the nation’s overall energy needs and priorities. Current policy requires that new projects be reviewed and approved or denied as they are submitted rather than as the result of a comprehensive, national strategy. “Placement of natural gas infrastructure should not be run like a deli counter, where it’s ‘first come, first served,’” said Congressman Bishop, Vice Chair of the House Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee. “Instead, we must take a comprehensive approach and develop a national strategy. As Congress debates solutions for America’s short-term and long-term energy needs, the strategic placement of energy infrastructure, particularly natural gas infrastructure is of critical importance.” “While it is critical when considering the placement of natural gas infrastructure that we evaluate the risks and benefits associated with each individual site, we must also take a comprehensive look at our nation’s natural gas supply needs and the infrastructure required to meet those needs,” said Congressman Cummings, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. “Through the creation of a national commission, we can begin to assess how to place national gas infrastructure where it best meets supply needs and where it will have the least possible impact on the environment while also allowing us to achieve maximum security with the limited resources available.” In 2007, natural gas provided more than 20 percent of all energy for the United States. With soaring oil prices and global climate change, natural gas is a cheaper, cleaner alternative to oil. The number of natural gas infrastructure proposals continues to increase. However, the federal agencies responsible for placement and oversight of the vast system of pipelines, terminals, and facilities – including re-gasification facilities – needed to provide natural gas are often limited in their ability to consider all the relevant elements of a proposed project when making decisions on the placement of critical energy infrastructure. Specifically, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the Maritime Administration (MARAD) can only react to the new natural gas infrastructure proposals brought to them. This approach severely curtails our nation’s ability to place energy infrastructure where it can best meet anticipated demand, where it causes the least environmental impact and where it is easiest to secure, given the limited resources of the Coast Guard and other federal, state, and local agencies. In response, the Bishop/Cummings Natural Gas Strategy Act would lead to a more comprehensive, national strategy for the placement of facilities which would increase access to affordable energy, strengthen security and reduce environmental concerns. ###
07.29.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Resolution to Apologize for Slavery Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, released the following statement in support of H.Res. 194, apologizing for the enslavement and racial segregation of African Americans, which is under consideration today in the House of Representatives: “As a fifty-seven-year-old Black man and a descendent of slaves, I understand first-hand the devastating imprint that slavery, racism, and segregation has left on the foundation of our country. It pains me that the effects of such discrimination are still embedded in the fabric of our society—seen in the disparities of education, health care, and employment opportunities. “In the past year, people of all races, religions, and backgrounds came together to stand out against a series of racial incidents symbolized through the placement of nooses around the country. Despite all of the accomplishments of the African American community—and of our society as a whole—these actions of intolerance are unwelcome reminders that racial tension and discrimination are not the distant memories that we may think they are. “I am very pleased to join my colleagues today in supporting a formal apology to the African American community for the inexcusable pain and suffering that has come both directly and indirectly from the practice of slavery and other discriminatory policies that were maintained by the U.S. Congress. This is a large step forward in reconciliation for the offenses of generations past, and I applaud Rep. Cohen for standing up and leading the House forward on this journey.” ###
07.26.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on 60th Anniversary of Integration of Armed Forces Baltimore, Md.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, released the following statement in recognition of the 60th anniversary of the integration within the armed forces of the United States: "Through his executive order to integrate our nation's armed services, President Truman helped our country leap forward toward greater social justice for minorities and women, pacing the road to equality within the U.S. and strengthening the very foundation and moral character of our nation. "All too often in our past, minorities in our military have been forced to endure the same injustice and discrimination that has marred our society's history. Yet, the patriotism of these men and women has kept the transformation envisioned by President Truman alive—and minorities continue to serve with distinction in our armed forces. "Minorities have played a pivotal role in shaping our military, and I am proud to see this role flourish today, serving as a model for an integrated society that can truly offer justice for all. And, just as we came together as a nation to ensure the full implementation of Executive Order 9981, I am pleased to join my brothers and sisters of all races across the country in celebrating the 60th anniversary of this momentous occasion." ###
07.24.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 House Passes Comprehensive Housing Legislation to Address Mortgage Crisis Washington, DC—Last night, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-7), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, joined his colleagues in passing the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008—the most comprehensive response yet to the housing crisis—by a vote of 272-152. “Every single day, hardworking families are forced into homelessness due to the mortgage crisis, and many more wake up to find themselves on the brink of foreclosure,” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation will be critical in helping us restore the American Dream of homeownership.” The American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act will allow American families in danger of losing their homes to refinance into lower-cost government-insured mortgages they can afford to repay—all at no cost to the American taxpayer. Other highlights of the legislation include: Providing resources to cities and states for the purpose of purchasing and rehabilitating foreclosed properties in the neighborhoods that have been hardest hit by foreclosures. Expanding homeownership opportunities for veterans and helping returning soldiers avoid foreclosures. Providing tax breaks to help spur home buying. Creating a new fund to boost the stock of affordable rental housing in rural and urban areas for low-income individuals and families. Additionally, the legislation includes provisions to help restore confidence in financial markets and shore up Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which hold or guarantee nearly half of all mortgages in the United States. It provides the Department of the Treasury with emergency and temporary financing authority for the two institutions; however, earlier this week, Congressional Budget Office Director Peter Orszag said there was a significant chance this new authority would not need to be employed before its expiration at the end of 2009. “People cannot turn a blind eye to the foreclosure crisis any longer. This is a problem that affects each and every one of us—hurting the job market, driving down home values, increasing crime and vandalism, and destroying confidence in the financial markets,” Congressman Cummings said. “This housing legislation is a giant leap forward in helping to address this devastating crisis and begin shifting our economy in a new and stronger direction.” The President is expected to sign this legislation into law. ###
07.23.2008	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, joined the U.S. Maritime Administration, the Maryland Department of Transportation, the Maryland Port Administration, and the University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science to announce the kick-off of an important new environmental research and testing project, the Maritime Environmental Resource Center (MERC). MERC was organized to help prevent the spread of economically and environmentally damaging invasive aquatic species into the Chesapeake Bay and other bodies of water in the U.S. that is caused by the discharge of a ship’s ballast water. This water is picked up by ships to stabilize weight while underway and later emptied when a ship needs to change its stability or unload cargo. When a ship obtains ballast water from one body of water and discharges it into another, it can inadvertently release foreign and destructive aquatic species if they are present in the ballast water. There are currently more than 150 invasive species in the Chesapeake Bay, most of which are believed to have been introduced by ballast water. The primary focus of MERC will be testing the effectiveness of systems designed to safely treat ballast water before it is discharged from ships. Testing will be performed aboard the MV Cape Washington, a working cargo ship provided by the Maritime Administration. “I am honored to have helped bring together these State and Federal partners to protect our waters from invasive species. The work being done by MERC will be critical to protecting the marine environment both here in the Bay and throughout the entire U.S.,” Congressman Cummings said. “The efforts of this program and the stellar research team that is running it will be appreciated for generations to come.” Elizabeth Megginson, Acting Deputy Administrator and Chief Counsel of the Maritime Administration, said, “This is a great day for the Maritime Administration! The commencement of ballast water technology testing aboard the MV Cape Washington is the culmination of many years of hard work.” “The Maritime Environmental Resource Center program will enable us to better protect the Chesapeake Bay from invasive species by validating treatment systems designed to minimize and if possible, eliminate the threat of invasive species from ballast water,” said Maryland Transportation Secretary John D. Porcari. “Amobile ballast water testing system will provide maritime vessels with the means to effectively meet existing and future ballast water criteria and regulations, a win-win for Maryland’s environmental and economic interests.” “The Maritime Environmental Resource Center model capitalizes on the diverse set of perspectives and expertise provided by the region’s academic and maritime leaders,” said University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science President Dr. Donald Boesch. “This partner-oriented approach is critical to developing and testing the new technologies needed to ensure a sustainable port and healthy Chesapeake Bay.” “The MERC team looks forward to helping to solve critical environmental and economic issues facing the international maritime community, particularly as they impact us here on the Chesapeake Bay,” said Dr. Mario N. Tamburri, Director of MERC. “We look forward to continuing our cooperative relationship with the Maritime Administration as MERC’s efforts move forward.” ###
07.23.2008	Washington, DC—Tomorrow morning, nearly 64,000 Maryland workers will receive a 40-cent pay raise when the federal minimum wage increases to $6.55. The increase is the second of three scheduled by one of the first pieces of legislation enacted by the Democratic-led Congress. “As Maryland families continue to feel the squeeze of our weakening economy and struggle to keep up with skyrocketing prices of everything from groceries to health insurance, it is critical that we ensure they have enough money to make ends meet,” said Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-7), a member of the Joint Economic Committee. Before the enactment of this legislation last year, the federal minimum wage remained unchanged for more than a decade under the Republican-led Congress. Because of this, minimum wage was at its lowest purchasing power in more than half a century. The increase, once fully in effect, is expected to benefit nearly 12.5 million Americans—including 6 million children. In Maryland, nearly 117,000 are expected to benefit. The third and final increase established by the bill will go into effect next year, raising the minimum wage to $7.25. “Rising consumer costs have hit low-wage workers especially hard, forcing families to make sacrifices in order to pay their bills,” Congressman Cummings said. “About 2/3 of our economy is driven by consumers having money to spend, and this is a monumental step in putting money in the pockets of hardworking Americans. With the additional money provided by our legislation, a family can buy an additional 15 months of groceries, 19 months of utilities, and 20 months of childcare.” The last legislation increasing the federal minimum wage, in 1996, was followed by the strongest employment growth. ###
07.23.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Appointed as Conferee on Rail Legislation to Benefit Baltimore Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, released the following statement in response to being appointed as a conferee for H.R. 6003, the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act, also known as the Amtrak Reauthorization: “This legislation is critical to enhancing the efficiency of passenger rail traffic in Maryland and throughout the rest of our country. It addresses our urgent need to ensure that our trains can accommodate a growing ridership—particularly as families continue to seek alternative means of transportation to cope with the impact of record-high gas prices. “I am extremely honored to be tasked with the responsibility of working with my colleagues to reconcile the differences between the House and Senate versions of this bill, and I will be aggressive in ensuring that the final version of this bill offers full funding to restore rail infrastructure to a state of good repair and to support Amtrak rail operations. “I will also work to ensure that the final text includes the authorization to modernize rail infrastructure along the Northeast Corridor—including $60 million to support the selection of a final rail alignment through Baltimore that will include the replacement of the Baltimore and Potomac Tunnel. There is simply no excuse for modern trains to be running on tracks that were laid more than a century ago.” ###
07.23.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Encourages FCC Chairman to Enact Sirius-XM Minority Programming Proposal Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, sent the following letter to Kevin Martin, Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), in response to the recent proposal by FCC Commissioner Jonathan Adelstein requiring Sirius-XM to lease 15 percent of their satellite capacity to diversity programming: July 23, 2008 The Honorable Kevin Martin Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street SW Washington, D.C. 20554 Dear Chairman Martin: This letter is to follow up on my correspondence dated May 15, 2008, regarding the proposed merger of Sirius Satellite Radio, Inc. and XM Satellite Radio Holdings, Inc., that is being considered by the Commission. I appreciate your time and consideration. I opposed the Sirius-XM merger due to my concerns that the newly formed company would control over 25 MHz – enough to transmit over 300 channels of radio and some video into every local market in the country. This would be an unprecedented amount of spectrumin the hands of a single company – more than the entire spectrum allocated to FM and AM radio combined. However, I also recognize that—should the merger be approved—it will provide a real opportunity for minority ownership and participation in the satellite marketplace. That is why I support the conditions that Commissioner Jonathan Adelstein recently proposed to you and the other Commissioners regarding dedicating 15 percent of the spectrum to diversity programming. While I believe the allocation of 20 percent of spectrum to diversity programming to be a stronger commitment, Commissioner Adelstein’s proposal of 15 percent is a giant step toward opening the doors of opportunity for minority-owned businesses that have historically struggled to compete in this industry. Further, I feel it is extremely important that this requirement be negotiated, ratified and approved by the Commission prior to approval of the merger. This percentage of channel capacity would clearly assure the public, and more specifically our minority population, of viable minority media ownership and diverse programming. I commend Commissioner Adelstein for his willingness to work with you and his fellow Commissioners to bring forth a plan that is clearly in the best interest of consumers. Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact me or my Legislative Director, Ms. Nikki Jones at 202-225-4741. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress
07.23.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: This Morning’s Oil Spill ‘Nothing Less Than a Tragedy’ Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the following statement in response to the release of more than 400,000 gallons of # 6 oil into the Mississippi River as the result of a collision in New Orleans this morning that split a barge in half: “This morning’s oil spill on the Mississippi River is nothing less than a tragedy, and my colleagues on the Subcommittee and I will be thoroughly examining the causes leading up to this devastating event. It is of great concern that we have witnessed two major oil spills on U.S. waters in less than one year, and we must identify and implement whatever actions are necessary to prevent such mishaps from occurring in the future. “It is my hope that the members of the U.S. Coast Guard will approach this incident with the same effectiveness and efficiency that was demonstrated in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, and I will be in close communication with them to ensure that this is the case. The Mississippi River is a vital waterway for the commerce of the United States and supplies the drinking water utilized by the City of New Orleans. Effective response by all parties is essential.” ###
07.15.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Applauds Achievement of Maryland Schools Students Across the State Excel on School Assessment Exams Baltimore, Md. – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) applauded the results of the Maryland School Assessment (MSA) for 2008. Statewide, students in all grades showed marked improvement in reading and mathematics scores since 2003, the first year of the assessment. “I commend the principals, teachers and students across our great State for their remarkable 2008 MSA results,” Congressman Cummings said. “Through improvements across the board, our young people have demonstrated their ability to meet and even exceed the challenges put forth in the No Child Left Behind Act.” An analysis of the 2008 MSA results determined that the percentage of students statewide scoring at the proficient or higher levels for reading in Grade 3 rose from 58.1 percent in 2003 to 83 percent in 2008. For Grade 5 mathematics, the percentage increased from 55 percent five years ago to 80.5 percent today. The results also showed a steady decrease in the achievement gap between White and Asian students and African American and Hispanic students, especially in Baltimore City. Seventy percent of African American students in Maryland now score in the proficient range in elementary school mathematics, compared to just 40 percent in 2003. Further, elementary school reading scores for Hispanic students have gone from 44.4 percent proficient in 2003 to 74.3 percent today. “Closing the achievement gap so that all of our students have equal access to a quality education is one of my top priorities,” Congressman Cummings said. “The State Superintendent of Schools, Dr. Nancy Grasmick, has also worked extremely hard to implement effective programs to address this issue statewide, and I commend her for her leadership in improving overall achievement.” The No Child Left Behind Act was created in 2001 to close the achievement gap and ensure that all children are held to the same national standard. Congressman Cummings is working to improve the law through its reauthorization to ensure that schools have the resources they need to continue to succeed. ###
07.08.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Urges Colleagues to Support Maritime Pollution Bill Legislation under consideration today would limit emissions from ships Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, urged his colleagues to support H.R. 802, the Maritime Pollution Prevention Act of 2008 (MARPOL), which offers the first opportunity to limit emissions from ships—the last major non-regulated source of ozone-depleting emissions in the U.S. “While so many people are conscious about the emissions of automobiles, few people realize that emissions of sulfur oxide from ships are now estimated to exceed the combined output from all of the cars, trucks, and buses in the entire world,” Congressman Cummings said. “Instituting these changes takes a long overdue and critical step forward in protecting the earth for our children, and it ensures that our nation remains at the forefront of achieving reductions in pollution from vessels at sea.” The legislation, introduced by Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman James L. Oberstar and Congressman Cummings, overwhelmingly passed the House by a vote of 359 to 48 last March and is scheduled for final consideration today before being sent to the President to sign into law. MARPOL is a treaty created in 1973 that is negotiated by the members of the International Maritime Organization (IMO), the United Nations body responsible for developing the regulations for ocean shipping. It currently includes six amendments limiting various forms of pollution from ships—including Annex VI, which controls air pollution and has been in force internationally since 2005. U.S. laws do not currently comply with this annex. “With the expansion of globalization, our nation increasingly relies on maritime transportation, and the volume of trade through U.S. ports is only expected to increase,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is essential that we account for this growth in the industry by implementing common sense precautions to protect our environment.” Additionally, by enacting MARPOL into law, the United States will be able to participate in negotiations for strengthened emissions controls currently under consideration by the IMO. ###
07.01.2008	Baltimore, Md. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings and Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (both D-Md.) today held a ceremony at Fort McHenry to present The Kendell Frederick Citizenship Act to the fallen soldier's family. The Kendell Frederick Citizenship Act, which was accepted by Kendell's mother Michelle Murphy, will make it easier for military service members to become U.S. citizens and demands better coordination among U.S. immigration and military officials. It was signed into law last week by President Bush. Despite a request from Congressman Cummings and Senator Mikulski, the President declined to hold a formal ceremony for the bill signing. The Team Maryland colleagues originally introduced this legislation in December 2005, following the death of U.S. Army Spc. Kendell Frederick of Randallstown, Md., in Iraq. A citizen of Trinidad, Spc. Frederick, 21, was serving as a U.S. Army generator mechanic. He did not usually leave the base, but on October 19, 2005, he was sent off in a convoy to get fingerprinted in order to process his citizenship application. En route, he was killed when the convoy hit a roadside bomb. Spc. Frederick had tried for more than a year to become a U.S. citizen, but his application was delayed several times due to miscommunication and misinformation from the U.S. government. He was granted citizenship a week after he died. "Losing our soldiers is a consequence of war that none of us wants to face, and the loss of Kendell Frederick is especially painful because there was no need for it to have happened," Congressman Cummings said. "I cannot comprehend why President Bush would refuse to take 15 minutes of his time to honor a man whose love of this country cost him his life, but I am honored to join Senator Mikulski today in offering this important legislation-and all that it symbolizes-the proper recognition it deserves." "Every military death in Iraq is a tragedy, but this one did not need to happen. No one should ever again have to go through what Kendell and his mother went through. Today, we have truly honored Kendell Frederick and delivered on the promise we made to Mrs. Murphy more than two years ago," said Senator Mikulski. "Kendell's death will not be in vain. Our law will make sure that a green-card soldier who wants to become a US citizen will be able to do so, quickly and easily. If you are willing to fight and die for America, you should be able to become an American." The Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act will make it easier for service members to get their citizenship applications processed, and demands better coordination between the military and immigration officials. The provisions cut through the red tape by: Directing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to use fingerprints provided by individuals at the time of enlistment to satisfy any fingerprint requirements as part of an application for naturalization. Ensuring that enlistment fingerprints are provided in an acceptable form for the naturalization process once the application for citizenship is submitted. Requiring DHS to update any applications, instructions and guidebooks, and the DHS website when naturalization procedures pertaining to members of the military are changed. Importantly, the bill does not change existing safeguards in the naturalization process that prevent abuse of the process by those seeking to harm our country. ###
06.27.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on CGC BERTHOLF Baltimore, Md.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the following statement welcoming the U.S. Coast Guard’s new National Security Cutter to Baltimore: “It is with great honor that I welcome the CGC BERTHOLF, the first new Coast Guard National Security Cutter, to Baltimore today. This vessel will serve as a tremendous asset to the men and women of the Coast Guard as well as a symbol of the millions of contributions the Coast Guard has made to the safety and security of our nation. “During my time chairing the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, I have watched the Coast Guard continue to raise its bar of excellence—reaching milestones such as one million lives saved and record amounts of cocaine interdicted. I have no doubt that this exceptional ship will further enable this great Service to continue shining out at sea. “I have the utmost faith in the leadership of Admiral Allen and applaud the many steps he has taken to strengthen all aspects of the Coast Guard’s management and operations—including its acquisitions functions. I am confident that the Coast Guard will continue working relentlessly to ensure that the BERTHOLF meets all contractual obligations and the standards of quality and reliability that the American taxpayers deserve.” ###
06.26.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 House Passes Cummings’ Landmark Prostate Cancer Resolution Washington, DC—Today, the House of Representatives approved H.Res.353, a piece of critical legislation introduced by Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) and Dan Burton (R-Ind.) to recognize the need for a greater investment in advanced imaging technologies for prostate cancer treatment and detection. “So many of us have either been personally affected by prostate cancer or have lost a loved one who suffered from the disease, and yet, despite its prevalence, we still lack adequate diagnostic tools to provide for early detection, accurate biopsies, and appropriate treatment,” Congressman Cummings said. “Today, we have taken a giant step forward in our battle to combat this curable disease and literally save lives.” Almost 30,000 men die of prostate cancer each year—about one every 18 minutes, and half of the men who are treated experience a return of the cancer. Within the African American community, the statistics are even more alarming, with a 60 percent higher incidence rate and more than 2.5 times higher mortality rate than within the white community. Despite prostate cancer having a higher prevalence than breast cancer, advanced diagnostic imaging technologies comparable to mammograms still remain unavailable. Because of the lack of an effective diagnostic tool, more than 1 million men have unnecessary and traumatic biopsies each year, with side effects such as impotence and incontinence. “Accurate and affordable diagnoses of prostate cancer are necessary tools in reducing the number of men traumatically affected by this disease, and they also offer an estimated savings of nearly $5 billion on health costs annually,” Congressman Cummings said. “Today, my colleagues joined me in voting for more than just a piece of legislation; they joined me in voting to protect the quality of life for millions of men.” Congressman Cummings also introduced the Prostate Research, Imaging, and Men’s Education (PRIME) Act, H.R. 3563, which would provide more than $130 million per year for five years to expand research on prostate cancer, develop advanced imaging technologies for detection, diagnosis, and treatment, launch a national campaign to increase awareness of the need for prostate cancer screening, and improve blood tests. ###
06.25.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings, Howard University, United Health Foundation Announce New Dental Program to Help Low-Income Children $300,000 grant will establish program in dental excellence at Howard’s College of Dentistry Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) and United Health Foundation today announced a $300,000 grant from the Foundation to establish a model “program in dental excellence” at Howard University’s College of Dentistry that will expand access to quality dental care for low-income children and their families who reside in Washington, D.C., and Prince George’s County, Maryland. This new initiative builds upon the demonstrated expertise of the Howard University College of Dentistry and the resources available through the school’s evening dental program. By using the innovative model of family-oriented dentistry and dental case management the program will ensure that children and their families receive comprehensive services that address the full range of their dental needs. “In the wealthiest country in the world, there is absolutely no excuse for tooth decay to be plaguing our children. Proper dental care is a critical component in children’s overall health and development, and no child should be refused the right to good health,” said Congressman Cummings. “This grant from United Health Foundation to Howard will help us continue to make great strides in our fight to provide access to quality dental care for all children—regardless of their race or economic backgrounds.” “We applaud Congressman Cummings for his national leadership to improve access to quality dental care for children,” said Reed V. Tuckson, MD, United Health Foundation Board Member and Executive Vice President and Chief of Medical Affairs, UnitedHealth Group. “United Health Foundation is dedicated to providing expanded access to high-quality care by supporting community-based health centers throughout the nation. We are extremely excited about this collaboration with Howard University to advance comprehensive dental services for low-income families and are confident that the lessons learned from this program in dental excellence will be useful to not only the children of Washington, D.C. and Prince George’s County, but the entire nation.” Tooth decay is the single most common chronic disease of childhood – five to eight times more common than asthma, according to the Children’s Dental Health Project. In the 2000 “Oral Health in America Report,” U.S. Surgeon General David Satcher, MD, called dental and oral disease a “silent epidemic,” disproportionately affecting poor children. "We are pleased to partner with the United Health Foundation on this very important mission,” said Leo E. Rouse, DDS, dean of the Howard University College of Dentistry. “Together, we will expand access to quality pediatric dental care by advancing the innovative model of family-oriented dentistry. Community oral health care support and advocacy for total health care is part of our strategic plan.” The Howard University College of Dentistry is uniquely qualified for this grant due to its long-standing commitment in providing quality care to underserved children and its national leadership in the training of dentists. Founded in 1881, the college is the fifth oldest dental school in the country and is one of only two located within historically black colleges and universities. The grant will support the new United Health Foundation Community Dental Health Program of Excellence at Howard University, which will aim to ensure children have a “dental home,” where they can regularly receive basic dental services, as well as emergency treatment. Additionally, Howard University will be supported in developing state-of-the-art performance measures to evaluate and track quality of care delivery in community-based clinics such as the new program within the College of Dentistry. The program also will provide a unique environment for the training of general dentists as they learn to address pediatric dental needs. Funding from the United Health Foundation grant also will support: The services of a pediatric dentist to provide on-site services for Medicaid beneficiaries in the service area; A dentistry case manager to provide on-site case management services for Medicaid beneficiaries in the service area, including scheduling, confirming appointments, and reducing barriers to keeping appointments; and, Community outreach and dental health education for children receiving Medicaid, their family members and caregivers. The new program extends United Health Foundation’s “Community Health Centers of Excellence” initiative, through which the Foundation partners with four community health centers in New Orleans, Bronx, NY, Miami, and in the Congress Heights/Anacostia area of Washington, D.C. To date, the Foundation has committed more than $17 million in financial support to the centers. A recent study of the quality of care at three of these community health centers, released by George Washington University Medical Center in January 2008, found that, based upon national standards, they provided care at or above that available in the private sector. The fourth clinic, only recently established in New Orleans, already shows signs consistent with the other three centers. The measures used in the evaluation included screening for cervical cancer and tobacco use; the quality of care furnished to persons with diabetes and asthma; the frequency of prenatal care HIV screening; and patient satisfaction levels. ###
06.20.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 ‘Today is a Sad Day for America’ Rep. Cummings expresses disappointment in FISA vote Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in response to today’s vote in the House of Representatives to adopt H.R. 6304, the FISA Amendments Act of 2008: “Today is a very sad day for the people of America, as their government has decided to further infringe upon the protections afforded to us by the 4th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. Our Founding Fathers recognized our right to privacy as being so critical that they had the foresight to make it an Amendment in one of our most revered and fundamental documents—the very foundation of our nation’s democracy. “My colleagues and I were elected to the U.S. Congress to represent the will of the people and to protect U.S. citizens from threats both foreign and domestic. I am disappointed in the compromises that were made in this legislation, because when it comes to our civil liberties, there should never be any compromise. I will relentlessly fight to ensure that surveillance becomes as transparent as possible to provide the oversight needed to prevent its abuse against U.S. citizens.” ###
06.13.2008	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, released the following statement in response to reports of the death of Tim Russert: “Tim Russert was a pioneer in his field, pouring his heart and passion into his work and probing our national leaders with the critical questions of everyday Americans. The contributions he made to political life in America are unparalleled. He set a high standard of excellence not only with regard to journalism, but with regard to the way he lived his life. Mr. Russert was a truly great man, and my thoughts and prayers go out to his family and friends. He will truly be missed.” ###
06.11.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Jones Act Hearing Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, issued the following statement after convening a hearing to consider the U.S. Coast Guard’s regulatory policies regarding the rebuilding of vessels under the Jones Act: “The issues pertaining to the rebuilding of Jones Act vessels in foreign shipyards are highly complex. However, fair and consistent enforcement of the law is essential to ensure that it is appropriately enforced and that all of the vessels certified for coastwise trade are competing on a level playing field. “There is currently significant confusion regarding the exact meaning of some of the terminology utilized in existing regulations, as well as how those regulations are to be applied. Such confusion appears likely to undermine efforts to ensure that the Second Proviso is enforced as intended. It is my hope that the Coast Guard will take the opportunity to clarify its regulations. “Further, increased transparency in administration of the processes used to assess the extent of vessel rebuilds would enhance enforcement and enable all parties in the Jones Act trade to understand the specific standards that are being applied by the Coast Guard. “Additionally, there needs to be enhanced oversight of the processes that the Coast Guard utilizes to implement Jones Act regulations, as well as an effort to verify that the alterations made to vessels at foreign shipyards do not violate the Second Proviso. It is insufficient to simply trust the claims made by ship owners who could stand to gain significant economic advantage from work on Jones Act vessels in foreign shipyards.” ###
06.11.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Votes to Modernize Rail Service in Baltimore Congressman joins colleagues in passing legislation that authorizes $60 million for Baltimore Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Cummings (Md.-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, joined his colleagues in passing the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act, H.R. 6003, by a veto-proof vote of 311-104. The bill included language authored by Congressman Cummings that would authorize $60 million for the replacement of antiquated tunnel infrastructure in Baltimore. “As families continue to cope with skyrocketing gas prices and seek out alternative means of transportation, it is critical that we make sure our trains are running as efficiently and effectively as possible,” Congressman Cummings said. “There is simply no excuse for us to be running modern trains through tunnels that were built more than a century ago, and this commonsense legislation will greatly enhance the efficiency of rail traffic in Maryland.” The section of the bill authored by Congressman Cummings would authorize $60 million to support the modernization of the rail tunnel infrastructure that carries all rail traffic on the Northeast Corridor through Baltimore. This includes the replacement of the Baltimore and Potomac (B&P) Tunnel, which was built in 1873 and imposes speed and height restrictions that inhibit the ability of modern trains to operate at full capability. “The Amtrak reauthorization is great for the people of Maryland,” Congressman Cummings said. “I applaud my colleagues for joining me in protecting the progress of passenger rail service through our State.” Other highlights of the bill include: Providing funding for high speed rail programs. Creating methods to resolve disputes between commuter and freight railroads. Alleviating “choke points” outside of the Northeast Corridor. The Senate passed its version of the bill by a veto-proof margin in October. ###
06.11.2008	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 5749, the Emergency Extended Unemployment Act, to immediately provide relief to job-seekers who have exhausted their regular unemployment benefits and provide a cost-effective, fast-acting stimulus to the struggling U.S. economy. “Across the country, there are currently two people vying for every one job opening, and this is only expected to worsen with time,” Congressman Cummings said. “We cannot—for the sake of both humanity and our economy—sit idly by while half of the unemployed struggle to make ends meet due to the poor economic policy decisions of the past 8 years.” The U.S. economy has witnessed job losses for five consecutive months, and—while the overall unemployment is not at a historically high level—long-term unemployment, the share of unemployment that has lasted more than 6 months, is currently very high relative to past unemployment rates. According to estimates by the Economic Policy Institute, 2.1 million workers will be long-term unemployed by the end of next year—a more than 60 percent increase from the 1.6 million long-term unemployed today. The legislation adopted today offers an extension of up to 13 weeks of unemployment benefits to workers who have exhausted the 26 weeks of regular unemployment benefits, as well as an additional 13 weeks of benefits to individuals in states with an overall unemployment rate of 6 percent or higher. Extending these benefits is projected to give the economy a boost of more than $1.7 billion per month, as the money is most likely to be spent on immediate needs. “I have been advocating for an extension of long-term unemployment benefits for months, and I am pleased to have joined my colleagues today in voting to help the men and women suffering through hard times continue to put food on the table for their families,” Congressman Cummings said. “This responsible legislation is beneficial for both our struggling neighbors who are relentlessly seeking employment and for our struggling economy.” As of May, more than 13,000 Marylanders were estimated to have exhausted their unemployment benefits and remain unemployed, and that number is projected to increase by an additional 36,000 by the end of 2009. The money to fund this legislation comes from the nation’s $38 billion unemployment trust fund, which is funded by a payroll tax on employers. ###
06.11.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl 202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins 410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, and Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, chair of the Maryland delegation, (both D-Md.) today celebrated Congress’ passage of the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act (S. 2516), which would make it easier for military service members to become U.S. citizens and demand better coordination among U.S. immigration and military officials. In a letter to President Bush, the Team Maryland colleagues urged the president to sign the bill in a formal ceremony when it arrives for signature (text of the letter below). “Losing our soldiers is a consequence of war that none of us wants to face. What makes the loss of Kendell Frederick especially painful is that it should never have happened,” Congressman Cummings said. “When people are willing to fight relentlessly on the battlefield to protect our nation, they should not also be forced to battle unnecessary red tape and a drawn-out citizenship process. We urge President Bush to quickly sign this important piece of legislation to send the message that when non-citizens take it upon themselves to perform heroic acts for our country, we will do everything in our power to ensure that they can attain citizenship as effectively and efficiently as possible.” “Today, we have truly honored Kendell Frederick and delivered on the promise we made to his mother more than two years ago. Kendell’s death will not be in vain – this will not happen to another man or woman serving in our Armed Forces,” said Senator Mikulski. “I urge the President to stand with us to honor the green-card seeking immigrants fighting for America in a public ceremony Kendell Frederick has earned.” Senator Mikulski and Congressman Cummings originally introduced this legislation in December 2005, following the death of U.S. Army Spc. Kendell Frederick of Randallstown, Md., in Iraq. A citizen of Trinidad, Spc. Frederick, 21, was serving as a U.S. Army generator mechanic. He did not usually leave the base, but on October 19, 2005, he was sent off in a convoy to get fingerprinted in order to process his citizenship application. En route, he was killed when the convoy hit a roadside bomb. Spc. Frederick had tried for more than a year to become a U.S. citizen, but his application was delayed several times due to miscommunication and misinformation from the U.S. government. Text of the letter: Dear Mr. President, We are pleased that the Senate and the House recently passed the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act (S. 2516), which will make it easier for military service members to become U.S. citizens. This bill is on its way to the White House for your signature. We respectfully ask that you take this great opportunity to show that we are working together to help immigrants serving our country in the military by signing this bill into law in a public ceremony. We first introduced this legislation nearly three years ago following the death of U.S. Army Specialist Kendell K. Frederick of Randallstown, Maryland, in Iraq. A citizen of Trinidad, Kendell, 21, was serving as a U.S. Army generator mechanic. He did not usually leave the base, but on October 19, 2005, he was sent off in a convoy to get fingerprinted in order to process his citizenship application. En route, he was killed when the convoy hit a roadside bomb. Kendell had tried for more than a year to become a U.S. citizen, but his application was delayed several times due to miscommunication and misinformation from the U.S. government. Yet, citizenship was granted posthumously within one week of his death. Kendell died in Iraq, fighting for this country. If people are willing to fight and die for America, they should be able to become citizens of America. This tragic story must never happen again to any man or woman serving in our Armed Forces. There are more than 45,000 non-citizen soldiers currently on active duty in the U.S. military and thousands are bravely serving in Afghanistan and Iraq. This legislation will simply help immigrants in the military to expedite the citizenship process by cutting through red tape and improve coordination among U.S. immigration and military officials. As permanent residents, these non-citizen soldiers could have chosen safe civilian jobs, rather than risking their lives in defending this country. Therefore, we respectfully ask that you demonstrate our commitment to helping immigrants serving in the military by signing this bill into law in a public ceremony. It would mean the world to Kendell’s mother, Michelle Murphy if she was invited to witness this important event. She knows firsthand the difficulties faced by those in the military who are trying to get their citizenship and this ceremony would let the world know that Kendell Frederick did not die in vain. ###
06.09.2008	Baltimore, Md.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, joined Stephanie Hill, Vice President of Programs and Site Operations at Lockheed Martin’s facility in Middle River, to donate twenty computers and several printers to the Maritime Industries Academy, a Baltimore City Public School. “This school has always boasted an amazing group of students with the potential to excel at any opportunity presented to them,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am grateful to Lockheed Martin for presenting these young men and women with endless new opportunities through their donation of new computers, and I look forward to continuing to assist in creating an environment allowing the Maritime Industries Academy to live up to its name and allow these students to truly flourish.” The decision by Lockheed Martin to donate the computers—the first of its kind in Baltimore—came following a suggestion by Congressman Cummings that the company establish a relationship with the school. “Technology is changing our world faster than it ever has before. It is critical that our young people have access to technology today, so they can be prepared for tomorrow,” said Stephanie Hill. “Lockheed Martin has been an integral part of the Baltimore community for nearly 80 years, and these computers will help the students at the Maritime Industries Academy develop the skills and knowledge they will need to be able to reach their full potential.” Congressman Cummings has played a pivotal role in developing maritime-related programs at the Maritime Industries Academy, including supporting the development of maritime curriculum, the creation of a guest lecture series, and an internship program. He has ardently worked to strengthen ties between the Academy and Maryland’s maritime community to ensure that students enrolled in the school can explore the growing number of opportunities available in the maritime industry. Lockheed Martin’s MS2 Maritime Security & Ship Systems line of business employs more than 600 people at its Middle River facility. It is a leader in developing launching systems for the military, advanced hull forms and automated ship systems, and innovative homeland security solutions. It also is leading the Lockheed Martin team that is building the Navy’s first Littoral Combat Ship. Headquartered in Bethesda, MD, Lockheed Martin employs about 140,000 people worldwide and is principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. The Corporation reported 2007 sales of $41.9 billion. ###
05.20.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Coast Guard Marine Safety Hearing Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, issued the statement below following a Subcommittee hearing on a report by the Department of Homeland Security’s Inspector General that paints a bleak picture of the Coast Guard’s marine casualty program; the report found that unqualified personnel are conducting marine casualty investigations, that the investigations are being conducted at inappropriate levels, and that there exists a substantial backlog of investigations due to ineffective management: “This morning we witnessed another example of the pressing need to expand the size of the U.S. Coast Guard. We cannot expect any organization to operate at full capacity when it does not have the staff or resources necessary to do so. Operating at full capacity is especially important when dealing with critical issues such as the safety of our mariners, marine life, and property at sea. For this reason, the Coast Guard must perform a workload analysis to determine how many people it needs to properly fulfill its marine casualty investigation duties. “Additionally, I fully support Chairman Oberstar’s suggestion that the Coast Guard and National Transportation Safety Board reach a resolution regarding primacy when it comes to marine casualty investigations. The Coast Guard and NTSB must assess whether they can revise their existing MOU to adequately address this issue. Furthermore, I stress that any resolution in this matter must be reached in the most efficient and effective way, to ensure that marine casualty investigations yield all safety recommendations necessary to prevent future casualties. “While the Coast Guard continues to be an outstanding organization whose critical missions and unrivaled service have contributed to our nation for more than 200 years, there are still areas—such as the marine safety program—that have room for improvement. The Members of the Subcommittee and I will continue working with the Coast Guard to facilitate the adjustments needed to allow the service to continue to effectively excel for years to come.” ###
05.20.2008	Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement today in response to reports that Senator Ted Kennedy has developed a malignant brain tumor: “For decades, Senator Kennedy has been a stalwart in our community, fighting for our children, for our seniors, and for the best interests of millions of families across the nation. I have no doubt that as he addresses his current health issue, he will tackle it with the same courage and determination that characterize his constant efforts to lift up the lives of all Americans—particularly in the area of ensuring access to quality, affordable medical care. “Senator Kennedy is a true American hero. He has been and will continue to be an inspiration to all of us, leading by example and setting a high standard for all who depend on us in Washington, D.C. My deepest thoughts and prayers go out to him and his family during these challenging times.” ###
05.15.2008	Baltimore, Md. – The Baltimore City Health Department has released a progress report on an innovative pilot program in which pediatric clinicians apply fluoride varnish to prevent cavities in young children. The project is a partnership between the Health Department and The University of Maryland School of Dentistry and is coordinated by Baltimore HealthCare Access. Early tooth decay affects thousands of children in Baltimore City and across the state and can have short and long-term consequences, including missed school, pain, impaired nutrition and increased chances for decay once permanent teeth come in. The goal of the pilot program is to test whether it is feasible to have doctor’s offices in Maryland fight decay in children when they come for regular checkups by applying a low-cost fluoride treatment that is painted onto the teeth. The four sites chosen for implementation were an academic center, two community health centers, and a private practitioner. Clinical staff members were trained by dental experts on topics in oral health and how to apply the varnish. The progress report finds that: Ø All participating clinics have widely adopted the application of fluoride varnish. Across four pilot sites, 91 clinicians participated in applying fluoride varnish. At least 809 children have received varnish treatments. Ø Approximately two-thirds of eligible children at well-child visits received varnish during the first 10 weeks of full data collection at each site. This high rate of adoption during the startup phase compares well with the adoption rate of new immunizations and demonstrates that a population-wide impact is possible. Ø Applying fluoride varnish is feasible for pediatric clinics. Each practice has developed an effective system to identify candidates for fluoride varnish, obtain consent, and apply the varnish. On average, staff used a total of about four minutes to prepare the patient’s chart and gather supplies, explain fluoride varnish to parents and obtain consent, apply the varnish, and document the application. Ø Clinicians and parents strongly support applying fluoride varnish in primary care. Staff at all four pilot sites positively rated the fluoride varnish program. Parents were pleased to be offered the opportunity for their children to receive the treatment at their pediatrician’s office. Ø The successful implementation of a web-based registry allows convenient monitoring of fluoride applications by individual clinicians and by health departments. The registry, modeled after the Baltimore Immunization Registry, allows clinicians to check when or if varnish was last applied to a specific child. Ø Fluoride varnish application by pediatric practices is ready for Medicaid adoption. The project has demonstrated that the procedure is indeed feasible across the varied pediatric practice types in our state. “We are very pleased with these results,” said Dr. Joshua M. Sharfstein, Commissioner of Health. “Fluoride varnish has tremendous potential for preventing suffering from tooth decay.” “This kind of innovative approach is critical to making Baltimore healthier,” said Mayor Sheila Dixon. “I thank the foundations for supporting this effort and the clinicians and parents for participating.” “With tooth decay as the most prevalent chronic childhood disease, we simply must ensure that every single boy and girl has access to proper dental care. This program will take us great lengths in ending the unacceptable disparities in oral health and ensure that our children have the healthy smiles they deserve,” Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) said. The pilot project is funded by the Harry & Jeanette Weinberg Foundation,the Abell Foundation, CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield, the Leonard and Helen R. Stulman Foundation, the Aaron and Lillie Straus Foundation and by in-kind contributions from the Baltimore City Health Department. It is coordinated by Baltimore Healthcare Access, Inc. The full report can be accessed at www.baltimorecityhealth.org . ###
05.15.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Statement on the Arrest of a Suspect in Catonsville Murder Baltimore, Md.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) released the statement below following the arrest of a suspect in the murder of Carlos Adolfo Santay-Carillo: “The circumstances surrounding Mr. Santay’s death are heart-wrenchingly tragic, and my thoughts and prayers continue to go out to his widow and their baby boy. However, I am offered hope by the ability of our community to rise together in the midst of such sorrow. “Through the tireless efforts of the Baltimore County Police Department, the Metro Crime Stoppers, and the men and women who had the courage to stand up and report the information that led to this morning’s arrest, we now have the opportunity to see that justice is served. While nothing will ever bring Mr. Santay back to share with his wife the joys of watching their new son grow into a man, it is my hope that some comfort can be found in the spirit of compassion and shared humanity that has been demonstrated over the past week.” ###
05.15.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Votes to Help Job-Seekers, Economy Amendment to Supplemental Bill Would Increase Unemployment Benefits, Stimulate Economy Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, joined his colleagues in adopting an amendment to H.R. 2642, the Supplemental Appropriations Act, which would extend unemployment benefits and offer a proven stimulus to our economy. “Across the country, there are currently two people vying for every one job opening, and this is only expected to worsen with time,” Congressman Cummings said. “We cannot—for the sake of both humanity and our economy—sit idly by while half of the unemployed struggle to make ends meet due to the poor economic policy decisions of the past 8 years.” The U.S. economy has witnessed job losses for four consecutive months, and—while the overall unemployment is not at a historically high level—long-term unemployment, the share of unemployment that has lasted more than 6 months, is currently very high relative to past unemployment rates. According to estimates by the Economic Policy Institute, 2.1 million workers will be long-term unemployed by the end of next year—a 64 percent increase from the 1.3 million long-term unemployed today. The amendment to the supplemental bill offers a thirteen week extension of unemployment benefits to workers who have exhausted the 26 weeks of regular unemployment benefits, as well as an additional 13 weeks of benefits to individuals in states with an overall unemployment rate of 6 percent or higher. Extending these benefits is projected to give the economy a boost of more than $1.7 billion per month, as the money is most likely to be spent on immediate needs. “I have been advocating for an extension of long-term unemployment benefits for months, and I am pleased to have joined my colleagues today in voting to help the men and women suffering through hard times continue to put food on the table for their families,” Congressman Cummings said. “This responsible legislation is beneficial for both our struggling neighbors who are relentlessly seeking employment and for our struggling economy.” More than 13,000 Marylanders are estimated to have exhausted their unemployment benefits and remain unemployed, and that number is projected to increase by an additional 36,000 by the end of 2009. The money to fund this legislation comes from the nation’s $38 billion unemployment trust fund, which is funded by a payroll tax on employers. ###
05.15.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Amendments Adopted by Armed Services Committee Important provisions increase diversity, establish oversight in contracting practices Washington, DC—Yesterday, six amendments introduced and co-sponsored by Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) were adopted during the House Armed Services Committee markup of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which authorizes defense spending for FY2009. The bill was reported favorably by the Committee on a vote of 61-0 late last night. “These measures are critical in enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of the U.S. armed forces by addressing under-representation of women and ethnic minorities as well as by implementing oversight in contracting jobs from the Department of Defense,” Congressman Cummings said. “By creating a diverse military that exercises proper accountability and oversight, we are better able to protect American families and defend our country from harm”. Highlights of these amendments include: Implementing a database for the collection of sexual assault incidents in response to a January, 2008, GAO report on sexual assault in military academies that indicates the need within the Department of Defense (DOD) for an established mechanism to evaluate sexual harassment and assault data. Increasing Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (JROTC) units, enhancing JROTC curriculum through the inclusion of contributions and historiography of gender- and ethnic-specific groups, and expanding the pool of eligible JROTC instructors and administrators by including retirees who are wounded warriors. Increasing the retention and recruitment of minority officers within the Armed Forces. Currently, there are 40 four-star generals, of whom only 1 is African American. Additionally, African Americans comprise only 6 of the138 three-star generals, 19 of the 272 two-star generals, and 20 of the 447 one-star generals. Enacting oversight of non-excess property lease agreements (EULs), which funds construction on military property by allowing private developers to lease underutilized property, ceding federal control over the property to the private developers. EULs have nearly doubled in use by the DOD since the implementation of BRAC. Protecting the rights and benefits of employees by regulating the use of High-Performing Organizations (HPOs) through the establishment of guidelines for implementing HPO use and by requiring annual evaluations to assess the efficiency of the HPOs. Protecting civilian employees from being laid-off by requiring the Secretary of Defense to certify to Congressional defense committees that he or she has no legal measures to avoid such actions. This comes in response to threats last year by the DOD to furlough civilian employees due to what it claimed to be funding deficiencies. Additionally, Congressman Cummings authored a provision in the baseline text of the bill that would increase the budget of HBCU/MI grants by adjusting the allocated funds to the rate of inflation annually and urging the expansion of the program to include advanced level defense technology as well as contracting opportunities. “The NDAA enacts numerous commonsense proposals essential to the proper functioning of our armed services, and I encourage my colleagues to support this important bill when it comes before the House,” Congressman Cummings said. ###
05.14.2008	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) joined his colleagues in adopting the conference report of H.R. 2419, the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act of 2007 (Farm Bill), to ease the strain of rising food prices for millions of families while strengthening American agriculture to meet the needs of the 21st century with a safe and stable food supply. “As millions of American families continue to struggle with skyrocketing food prices, gas prices, job losses, and foreclosures, Congress is responding with responsible legislation such as the Farm Bill,” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation offers critical support to hungry families, expands nutrition programs in schools, and strengthens our agriculture industry with the most significant reforms in more than 30 years.” The bill, which passed the House by a vote of 318-106, would help struggling families cope with rising food prices by increasing the minimum monthly benefit of food stamps from $10 for the first time in 30 years, assisting 11 million people in the next four years. It also provides an additional $1.25 billion in support to food banks, food pantries, and soup kitchens, with $50 million for immediate shortages at food pantries. Additionally, the bill would help ease the surging price of food in the long-run by providing a $3.8 billion disaster relief program for farmers hit by droughts or flooding, allowing them to bring crops to market faster. It would also reduce tax credits for corn-based ethanol—which has been affecting the price of corn—and instead subsidize more efficient ethanol, made from stalks, wood, and grass. “We must be prepared to address the changing needs of the world around us by investing in both short- and long-term progress,” Congressman Cummings said. “I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to quickly pass their version of this bill and urge the President to invest in the priorities important to hardworking Americans by signing this important piece of legislation.” Other highlights of the bill include: Providing supplemental income to farmers who are struggling and ending payments to farmers who do not need assistance. Making critical food labeling of our meat supply and produce mandatory. Investing an additional $7.9 billion in conservation programs to reduce soil erosion, improve water and air quality, and increase wildlife habitat—including $188 million over 5 years to reduce agricultural run-off as part of the first-ever Chesapeake Bay-specific program. Under the pay-go rules adopted by the Democratic-led Congress, all of the new spending in the bill is fully paid for to prevent further increases to the national debt that has skyrocketed since 2001. ###
05.12.2008	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Nancy Nord, the Chairwoman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), expressing concern over reports of the agency’s 16-month delay in recalling a Chinese-made charm keychain with alarming levels of accessible surface lead that can harm children who ingest it (text of the letter below). “I simply cannot fathom any justification for a product to remain on the market for so long when it contains levels of lead so egregiously high above what federal law allows,” Congressman Cummings said. “The CPSC, whose name alone suggests protection against such hazards as lead and other toxins, has continuously demonstrated lax oversight of products with which our children come in contact. American families deserve better.” In December 2006, Jeffrey Weidenhamer, a chemistry professor at Ashland University whose product testing has led to numerous product recalls, notified the CPSC that the Wal-mart “Hip Charm” keychain contained 80 percent lead by weight—more than 1300 times the federal standard of .06 percent. Yet, the agency did not recall the product until last month after reports that a 9-month-old child who had put the keychain in her mouth showed high lead levels in her blood. Congressman Cummings has been critical of the CPSC for its failure to adequately protect children from harmful products. Despite an increasing number of products manufactured overseas—80 percent of all toys in the U.S. are imported from China—the agency has only 85 percent of the employees it had in 2004, and only half of the employees it had thirty years ago. “Last summer alone, more than twenty million dangerous imported toys managed to slip through the cracks and onto the shelves of our stores—and of our children’s bedrooms—before being recalled,” Congressman Cummings said. “With a figure that high, we are not talking about a few cracks, however; we are talking about a major chasm in our system that absolutely must be addressed by every party involved—from the CPSC to the manufacturers.” Congressman Cummings recently reached out to several major toy companies requesting briefings on their safety standards with regard to lead testing, and he is participating in ongoing discussions with Mattel about best practices to prevent the sale of children’s products containing high levels of lead. He is a co-sponsor of H.R. 4040, federal legislation currently in conference that would expand the authority of the CPSC and strengthen federal lead standards. The text of the letter: May 12, 2008 The Honorable Nancy Nord Acting Chair Consumer Product Safety Commission 4330 East-West Highway Bethesda, MD, 20814 Dear Ms. Nord: I am writing to express my extreme concern regarding recent reports that the Consumer Product Safety Commission failed to recall the Wal-mart “Hip Charm” keychain that contained illegal levels of lead until 16 months after the agency was alerted to the potential violation. Specifically, I draw your attention to the attached article entitled, “Questions raised on safety panel,” which ran in the Cleveland Plain Dealer on April 26, 2008. I respectfully request that you review the details of this article and report back on its veracity. If the facts described are determined to be true, please also provide an explanation of how this case was handled by the agency. I am simply astounded at the prospect that, given the recent high profile cases involving illegal levels of lead in toys and failures of the CPSC to protect our children, this particular case went unaddressed for 16 months. I look forward to your prompt response. If you have any questions regarding this matter, please do not hesitate to contact Ms. Danielle Grote on my staff at (202) 225-4741 or danielle.grote@mail.house.gov. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress ###
05.12.2008	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D) joined Team Maryland colleagues Senators Barbara A. Mikulski (D) and Benjamin L. Cardin (D) and Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer (D), Albert Wynn (D), Roscoe Bartlett (R), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D), Chris Van Hollen (D) and John Sarbanes (D) today in a fight for Maryland's Healthy Start program. Maryland has been waiting for more than two years for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to re-approve the program. Without the approval of CMS, local health departments will be forced to fire the public health nurses who provide care to thousands of new mothers and newborns. "It is critical that CMS act quickly in approving this request - not only for the numerous new and expectant mothers in our communities, but also for the nurses whose jobs rely on the survival of this program," Congressman Cummings said. "As our economy continues to struggle with increasing job losses and the accompanying loss of health insurance, programs like Healthy Start become even more essential." "CMS' failure to re-approve this program will deprive care to those who need it most. We must honor our new moms and children, not just with words, but with deeds," said Senator Mikulski, Chair of the Maryland delegation. "As health care costs continue to rise, we must do everything we can to create solutions to help, not harm, those seeking and administering health and social services." "For nearly 20 years, modest federal investment in the Maryland Healthy Start program has greatly improved prenatal and postnatal care for thousands of mothers and their infants and helped reduce the number of low birth weight babies and early infant deaths. The Administration should act immediately to ensure that access to these vital services can continue without interruption," said Senator Cardin. "After two years of stonewalling, now is the time for CMS to grant approval for Maryland's Healthy Start program," stated Congressman Hoyer. "Failure to act is a decision to undermine critical medical services for low-income pregnant women and children, and will result in further weakening Maryland's Medicaid program in the wake of harmful regulatory changes imposed by the Bush Administration." "It is essential that newborns get a healthy start in life. The Maryland Healthy Start Program ensures that our poorest mothers receive the critical prenatal care they need. During my tenure in Congress, I have fought to protect our most vulnerable citizens, women and children, and this program is something we can be proud of. I urge CMS to quickly approve the State's request for this program," said Congressman Wynn. "The 50-50 cost share between the federal government and the State of Maryland for the Healthy Start program is a formula which should be continued by CMS," said Congressman Bartlett. "Women who participated in Healthy Start are more than twice as likely as those who don't participate to have earlier and better care and healthier outcomes for their babies." "We must ensure that new moms and their children have access to quality health care so they can lead healthy and productive lives. We call on the Administration to fund Maryland's Healthy Start program," said Congressman Ruppersberger. "I am extremely disappointed that CMS has not given a final determination to the State of Maryland on its application to update the Medicaid Healthy Start Program. Unfortunately, this lack of a response from CMS is part of the Bush Administration's efforts to shift Medicaid costs to the states and restrict services to needy individuals," said Congressman Van Hollen. "I urge CMS to approve Maryland's application for this very important program, which has been providing essential services to thousands of pregnant women and new mothers for 24 years." "Healthy Start is obviously vital to giving our children the care they need from the very beginning," said Congressman John Sarbanes. "CMS must act promptly to avoid the needless interruption of these services." The delegation's letter sent today to Secretary of Health and Human Services Michael O. Leavitt is below: Dear Secretary Leavitt, We are writing to request that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) approve the cost allocation plan for Maryland's Medicaid Healthy Start program that the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DHMH) submitted in 2006. The Maryland Healthy Start program has been providing valuable health services to Maryland's most vulnerable citizens for nearly two decades. These services are critical to the health of thousands of mothers and young children in the State of Maryland. Our State struggles with a high infant mortality rate and we must take every step possible to help these vulnerable individuals get the care that they need, both during the prenatal period and during the first years of the child's life. We share the goal of eliminating money wasted through fraud and abuse, however, cutting this program is not the way to accomplish this. Facilitating Medicaid applications and linking women and children to appropriate care is essential for the efficient and effective administration of the Medicaid program, and therefore should be considered an appropriate Medicaid administrative cost. Without the services that Healthy Start nurses provide, many of the families this program serves would not be able to navigate the complex Medicaid application process or know how to access services. If we are not able to help those most in need to access services, we believe we are failing the objectives of the Medicaid program. We urge CMS to quickly approve the cost allocation plan Maryland submitted for this important program. It is essential that the plan be approved before the local health departments are forced to fire the public health nurses who provide this essential service. ###
05.12.2008	Baltimore, Md.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-7) joined Baltimore City Mayor Sheila Dixon, U.S. Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, Congressman John Sarbanes, U.S. Small Business Administration Deputy Administrator Jovita Carranza, and local business leaders to promote the Emerging 200 initiative. Baltimore is one of eleven U.S. cities selected to participate in the program, designed to give inner-city small businesses the resources necessary to succeed. The Small Business Administration (SBA) identified Baltimore as a city with a high potential for growth among its inner-city small businesses. Bolstering growth among small businesses is a priority for the SBA because small businesses can be a tremendous source of new employment. According to a 2005 study, small businesses are the greatest source for new employment in inner cities, and they can account for as much as 80 percent of total employment. Other cities selected to participate in the Emerging 200 initiative are: Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, New Orleans, Memphis, Chicago, Des Moines, Milwaukee, Albuquerque, and Oakland. “Small business is a very big business to our communities, creating half of our nation’s gross domestic product and driving our entire economy,” said Congressman Cummings, a member of the Joint Economic Committee. “This initiative will create great new opportunities to help our City thrive, especially as we continue to grapple with a struggling economy nationwide.” “As everyone here knows, successful small businesses are economic engines capable of powering entire cities forward,” said Mayor Dixon. “The Emerging 200 initiative will help them immensely by delivering expert instruction, mentoring and guidance.” “Small businesses are the heart of our economy and I am a strong supporter of the SBA’s efforts to reach out and provide support that will enable small business to grow,” said Senator Cardin, a member of the Senate Committee on Small Business & Entrepreneurship. “The selection of Baltimore to participate in the Emerging 200 initiative is a vote of confidence in Baltimore’s strong small business community and the many resources that are available here to help businesses succeed.” “Selection for the Emerging 200 initiative is a wonderful opportunity for Baltimore’s small business community,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “Successful businesses can leverage this kind of federal investment to really kick start growth.” If selected as one of the Emerging 200 businesses, participants will be engaged in an intensive curriculum focused on developing a successful strategy for their business. They will have opportunities to work with mentors, attend workshops and network with leaders in the business and financial community. “We’re pleased, along with our co-sponsors, to bring Emerging 200 and its MBA-style environment and program, to small businesses in Baltimore,” said Stephen D. Umberger, Director of the SBA’s Baltimore District Office. “We hope eligible small businesses will take advantage of this tremendous opportunity.” Businesses interested in participating in the initiative are encouraged to register with the local SBA District Office. Eligible companies must be located in Baltimore City, have achieved $400,000 in revenue, and be at least three years old. Interested business owners can call the Baltimore District Office at (410) 962-6195. For additional information about the Emerging 200 initiative, visit https://www.sba.gov/e200/index.html. # # #
05.09.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cantwell, Cummings, Snowe Express Concern Over DD-250 Legislators send letter to Coast Guard Commandant Washington, DC—Today, Senators Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) and Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), Chairwoman and Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard, and Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, sent a letter to Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thad Allen expressing concern over the Coast Guard’s preliminary acceptance of the National Security Cutter BERTHOLF before many of the ship’s problems have been adequately fixed (text of the letter below). Last month, the U.S. Navy’s Board of Inspection and Survey (INSURV) conducted a thorough assessment of the ship, and recommended that the Coast Guard delay acceptance until eight serious, “starred” deficiencies were addressed. When the Coast Guard took preliminary acceptance of the ship yesterday, it did so without having resolved those starred deficiencies – seven of the eight deficiencies remain incomplete. The letter also outlined concern that INSURV was unable to conduct a complete assessment of the BERTHOLF’s advanced computer and communications systems. In their letter, Senators Cantwell and Snowe and Congressman Cummings demanded answers on how the Coast Guard plans to resolve the BERTHOLF’s problems and pressed that all of the ship’s problems must be resolved before its final acceptance. "Despite the Coast Guard’s decision to conditionally accept the first National Security Cutter, this ship is far from being out-of-the-woods," said Cantwell. ”There are thousands of specific problems that still need to be fixed, and the Coast Guard must hold the ship’s contractor accountable for finishing the job and delivering what the taxpayers were promised." “Given the millions of taxpayer dollars that have already been wasted on the Deepwater project as a result of poor judgment, I will be closely watching to ensure that the BERTHOLF is fit for the seas upon final acceptance,” Congressman Cummings said. “The Coast Guard must be vigilant in ensuring that the new NSC will be the exceptional vessel that we have all envisioned—worthy of the brave men and women who will be performing critical missions upon it.” “While I am encouraged by the Coast Guard’s renewed focus on aggressive program management and accountability to the taxpayers, this project is still far from completion,” said Senator Snowe, the Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee on Fisheries and the Coast Guard. “Throughout the conditional acceptance period and all phases of this monumental acquisition, the Coast Guard must be as vigilant in protecting the American taxpayers’ investment as they have always been in protecting our mariners. Final acquisition of a fully-functional National Security Cutter will be a quantum leap forward in the Coast Guard’s ability to safeguard the American public and I look forward to the day when the men and women of the Coast Guard are no longer sailing aboard one of the oldest Naval fleets in the world.” The text of the letter is as follows: May 9, 2008 Admiral Thad Allen CommandantUnited States Coast Guard 2100 2nd Street, S.W. Washington, DC 20593 Dear Admiral Allen: Following the Coast Guard’s preliminary acceptance of the first National Security Cutter (NSC), BERTHOLF, and the placement of the cutter in “in commission special” status, we write today to express our concern that this cutter was accepted with a number of deficiencies, including serious deficiencies noted in starred trial cards that have not yet been fully resolved. We are confident that the NSC will be an exceptional cutter that will provide significantly expanded mission capabilities to the Coast Guard. However, following its evaluation of the ship’s completeness, the Navy’s Board of Inspection and Survey (INSURV) recommended that the Coast Guard Commandant authorize acceptance and delivery of the ship “provided all starred deficiencies have been corrected or waived prior to acceptance.” The action taken yesterday constitutes a preliminary acceptance, and we are concerned that this action was taken with deficiencies, including starred cards, still outstanding. We understand that all starred card issues will be resolved by the end of May. We expect to be notified when these issues are resolved and if there are any delays in meeting this timeline. We are also concerned that because the information systems onboard BERTHOLF are not yet completely installed, INSURV was unable to conduct a full assessment of those systems. INSURV consequently recommended that the Coast Guard conduct a more complete evaluation during the final contract trials once the entire information system has been completed. Clearly, work remains to be done and we would like an explanation as to how the Coast Guard plans to complete this evaluation, while holding the contractor responsible to ensure that the BERTHOLF’s capabilities are fully realized. We appreciate the diligent testing regimen to which NSC 1 has already been subjected, including machinery trials and builder’s trials in addition to the acceptance trials. However, we also believe it is imperative that the Coast Guard not move to final acceptance of this vessel before all outstanding deficiencies are resolved. Accepting a ship like the National Security Cutter BERTHOLF is a long and complicated process. We want to express once again how important it is for the Coast Guard to hold the shipbuilder accountable. The contractor’s work on this ship is far from done – and the same goes for the U.S. Coast Guard. We expect that as stewards of taxpayer dollars, you will use every tool at your disposal to hold the contractor fully accountable for the completion of this ship and fulfillment of the shipbuilder’s contractual obligations. Our government is spending well over $600 million to acquire the BERTHOLF, and we should get the ship that we were promised. Taxpayers should expect nothing less, and neither do we. We look forward to receiving your response. Sincerely, Maria Cantwell Olympia Snowe Elijah E. Cummings
05.09.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congress Passes Housing Package to Ease Foreclosure Crisis Legislation would assist those in danger of foreclosure, help with neighborhood recovery start text end text
05.08.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Concerned by Coast Guard Decision DD-250 signed for BERTHOLF prior to resolution of ship deficiencies Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the following statement in response to the Coast Guard’s decision to sign the DD-250 for the new national security cutter BERTHOLF prior to resolving numerous deficiencies of the vessel: “Although I am confident that the BERTHOLF will be an exceptional cutter expanding the mission capabilities of the U.S. Coast Guard, I am greatly concerned that the DD-250 would be signed in spite of so many outstanding deficiencies—including several deficiencies that have been ‘starred’ by U.S. Navy ship inspectors due to their potential to significantly impair the ship’s operation. “Given the millions of taxpayer dollars that have already been wasted on the Deepwater project, I will be closely watching to ensure that the Coast Guard addresses these serious deficiencies while also encouraging Admiral Allen not to move to final acceptance of this vessel before all outstanding deficiencies are resolved.” ###
05.08.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Announces Rail Legislation to Benefit Baltimore Amtrak reauthorization would provide $60 million, support expansion of MARC service Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-7), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, joined his colleagues on the Committee to announce the introduction of Amtrak reauthorization legislation, which includes provisions of critical importance to the 7th District of Maryland. “This legislation addresses our urgent need to ensure that our trains can accommodate a growing ridership—particularly as Maryland families cope with the impact of record-high gas prices and seek alternative means of transportation,” Congressman Cummings said. “There is simply no excuse for us to be running modern trains on infrastructure that was built more than a century ago.” The reauthorization, also known as the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act, would authorize the modernization of rail infrastructure along the Northeast Corridor. This includes the authorization of $60 million to replace or circumvent the Baltimore and Potomac tunnel that was constructed in 1873 and through which all rail traffic on the Corridor in Baltimore must travel. Additionally, the bill supports the future expansion of local MARC service from Washington to Baltimore. Other highlights of the bill include: Providing funding for high speed rail programs. Resolving disputes between commuter and freight railroads. Alleviating “choke points” outside of the Northeast Corridor. “The Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act is a practical, commonsense piece of legislation that will greatly enhance the efficiency of rail traffic in Maryland,” Congressman Cummings said. “From making it easier for commuters to get home from work and see their families to replacing antiquated rail associated with impractical speed restrictions, the Amtrak reauthorization is great for the people of Maryland.” ###
05.08.2008	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Below are the prepared remarks of Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) for a press conference this morning denouncing President Bush’s proposed $46 million in cuts to critical nursing programs through Title VIII funding. Title VIII provides the largest source of federal funding for nursing education, offering financial support for nursing education programs, individual students, and nurses. Such funding is essential in addressing the nursing shortage currently plaguing the State of Maryland—which is projected to experience a shortage of more than 17,000 nurses in the next four years. Remarks of Congressman Elijah Cummings Press Conference Denouncing Proposed Cuts to Nursing 10:30 A.M., Thursday, May 8, 2008 1732 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. _____________________________ I am honored to join my distinguished colleague Nearly 3 million registered nurses are on the front lines of our nation’s health care system—at bedsides across this country and abroad in Iraq and Afghanistan. Nurses provide critical care to the sick, the injured, the elderly and the newly born. They are leaders in addressing our nation’s most pressing public health challenges. Nurses bring messages of prevention and healthful living to ordinary citizens at home, at work, and at school—as well as in the doctor’s office and in the hospital. Notably, nurses are also educators within their own ranks—teaching and training the next generation of nurses who are coming up behind them. Unfortunately, our national commitment to the nursing profession fails to parallel the significant role it plays in our society. As a result, we are in the midst of a nursing crisis in this country. The Health Resources and Services Administration projects that the nation’s nursing shortage will grow to more than one million nurses by the year 2020. In our home state of Maryland, there is a current shortage of more than 3,000 nurses—over 2,000 of whom are needed in hospitals alone. Further, if current trends continue, the Nursing Workforce Project forecasts that Maryland will experience a shortage of more than 17,000 registered nurses by the year 2012. We simply must step up our efforts to bring more individuals into the nursing profession. That is why we were dismayed that the President proposed a devastating 30 percent cut to the Nursing Workforce Development Initiative, or Title VIII of the Public Health Service Act. In the 44 years since Title VIII began, it has addressed every aspect of the nursing shortage—education, practice, retention, and recruitment. At this critical juncture in our national nursing shortage, the need to fully fund Title VIII could not be more clear. That is why I am pleased to join my colleagues in advocating for $200 million in funding for Title VIII. from Maryland—and our friends from the Johns Hopkins School of Nursing—in this important event to denounce the President’s proposed budget cuts to nursing. * * * Our nursing institutions in Maryland are some of the finest in the nation. U.S. News and World Report Yet despite this legacy of excellence, our nursing schools are suffering. We have a situation at the Coppin State University School of Nursing in my District in which highly qualified students are literally being turned away because the school cannot afford to admit them. That is why our Maryland team has consistently advocated for increased funding for nursing. In Fiscal Year 2008, I secured $750,000 for the University of Maryland School of Nursing and $225,000 for the Coppin State University School of Nursing. In 2007, I was proud to present the Coppin State University School of Nursing with a check for $638,000 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The check was the first installment of two 3-year grants totaling over $1.7 million. In Fiscal Year 2005, I secured $297,600 for the Howard County Community College to expand its nursing program, allowing for the school to reduce its waiting list by 50 percent. Finally, I am a member of the Advisory Committee for the Yale-Howard Nursing Partnership Center to Reduce Health Disparities by Self and Family Management. We have made this commitment to nursing because we have long recognized the critical role that nurses play in our health care system—and in society at large. I appreciate that my Maryland colleagues support me in this effort and I assure you that we will do all in our power to fight this Administration’s ill advised budget cuts. Thank you. ### has ranked the Johns Hopkins School of Nursing second in the country for its community health nursing programs and fourth for its graduate nursing programs.
05.07.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Requests Meetings With Toy Companies On Safety Practices Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, requested meetings with major toy manufacturers to discuss the companies’ safety measures for testing levels of lead in children’s products. “When parents pay for a toy—particularly when it is attached to a trusted name such as Ty or Disney—they are expecting a product that is safe for their children, not a toy with extremely high levels of lead,” Congressman Cummings said. “As we continue to move forward from last year’s highly publicized toy recalls, I want to ensure that the industry leaders are doing everything in their power to guarantee that their products are fit for our children’s bedrooms.” The requests were sent to Ty, ALEX, and Kids II—all of which manufacture children’s products that were identified in 2007 as containing lead in levels exceeding those allowed by federal law—as well as to Disney, which has granted licensing rights to companies that produced recalled products bearing the Disney name, and Hasbro, the second largest toy company in the U.S. Additionally, Congressman Cummings has been involved in ongoing discussions with Mattel about best practices to prevent the sale of children’s products containing high levels of lead; he recently requested documents from the company to gain a further sense of how overseas contracting and subcontracting may contribute to unsafe products. “The effects of lead poisoning are irreversible and tragic, and every precaution must be taken in the manufacture of products intended for use by children, our most vulnerable population,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am working to ensure that the industry leaders do not limit themselves to minimum safety standards when it comes to products for our children—and that the standards that are in place are adequately enforced.” ###
04.29.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings, Mikulski, Cardin Call for Recognition of USS CONSTELLATION's Role in Ending Slave Trade Bicentennial commemoration ceremony will be held aboard ship in Inner HarborWASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Elijah E. Cummings and Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin and have announced they will introduce a resolution today to recognize the historical significance of the USS Constellation—which is docked in Baltimore's Inner Harbor—and to acknowledge it as an appropriate site to commemorate the bicentennial of the abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade this year. "The USS Constellation represents a shining moment in one of the darkest points of our nation's history, and I am honored to officially recognize its significance through this resolution," said Congressman Cummings. "The efforts and accomplishments of the Constellation's crew helped lead not only to the liberation of thousands of Africans, but also to the liberation from oppression and ignorance. It is only fitting that we celebrate the bicentennial of the abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade aboard this important vessel." "The Constellation saved thousands of Africans from a life of slavery in America, and today it rests in Baltimore's Inner Harbor as a reminder of African Americans' long struggle for freedom and equality. I am proud to introduce this resolution to acknowledge the Constellation's role in the fight," said Senator Mikulski. "Two hundred years after the prohibition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade, this resolution preserves this ship's significant part in American history for generations to come." "Slavery left an indelible mark on American history, but as we celebrate 200 years since the United States officially abolished its participation in the transatlantic slave trade, it is with pride that we commemorate this event aboard the USS Constellation, which has found a home in the Port of Baltimore," said Senator Cardin. "Through the heroic actions of its crew, the Constellation symbolized a new American way of thinking and internationalism as the literal flagship of American's effort to end the inhumane practice of slavery. It's a lesson worthy of remembrance and celebration today." The Transatlantic Slave Trade became illegal in 1808, and the USS Constellation was one of the ships used to enforce the law. It sailed to West Africa as a flagship of the eight-ship United States African Squadron. From 1859 to 1861, the USS Constellation and the African Squadron captured a record 14 slave ships and liberated nearly 4,000 Africans destined for a life of servitude in the Americas, including 705 Africans aboard the ship Cora. On September 25, 2008, the USS Constellation Museum will hold a ceremony to commemorate the bicentennial of the abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade aboard the USS Constellation. ###
04.29.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Senators Barbara A. Mikulski, Benjamin L. Cardin and Congressmen Elijah E. Cummings, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger and John Sarbanes (all D-Md.) today condemned the draft environmental impact statement (EIS) issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). In its report, FERC suggests that - with 151 mitigation measures - the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility at Sparrows Point in Baltimore would "have limited adverse environmental impact and would be an environmentally acceptable action." If the Sparrows Point application is approved, LNG tankers would have to travel through the narrowest portions of the Chesapeake Bay, under the Bay Bridge, through heavily used commercial fishing and recreational boating areas, to the mouth of the Port of Baltimore. This is a densely populated area that is less than two miles away from residential communities that are home to more than 65,000 residents. "Federal agencies are all too quick to rubberstamp these facilities, despite the significant and very real concerns of Baltimore residents, the State of Maryland, and this Senator," said Senator Mikulski. "I am absolutely opposed to an LNG facility in Sparrows Point. I am deeply concerned for the safety of communities surrounding LNG sites and the potential environmental impact of these facilities. I will continue to stand up for Maryland, even as federal agencies rush this process." "FERC's draft environmental impact statement fails to adequately address the safety issues of locating a LNG facility in a populated, urban area or what the substantial upgrades to security would entail," said Senator Cardin. "I am deeply disappointed in FERC's suggestion that this project could pose little risk to the fragile environment of our Bay. There is simply no amount of mitigation that will make an LNG terminal at Sparrow's Point favorable to our environment," Congressman Cummings said. "The proposed terminal, as it currently stands, is unfavorable-for both our environment and for the safety and security of our community. FERC must stop ignoring the serious risks presented to our State by this proposed project." "From the very start, I have said the proposed liquefied natural gas plant is absolutely inappropriate for this residential area in Eastern Baltimore County. My biggest concerns focus around the lack of a comprehensive safety and security plan, the potential harm to the quality of life for nearby residents, and the possible negative effects on the environment and the Chesapeake Bay. This Environmental Impact Statement does not alleviate any of my concerns," said Congressman Ruppersberger. "The debate about whether or not to place a LNG facility at Sparrows Point has always hinged on the issue of safety. That should have weighed heavily on FERC's decision," said Congressman Sarbanes. The members will send the following letter to FERC Chairman Joseph T. Kelliher today: Dear Chairman Kelliher: We strongly disagree with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's (FERC) favorable draft environmental impact statement (EIS) for the AES Sparrows Point LNG, LLC and Mid-Atlantic Express LLC proposed facility and pipeline. You have once again decided to ignore our safety, security and environmental concerns about this proposed facility. You also have chosen to ignore the concerns of the State of Maryland and Baltimore County. The draft EIS provides a road map for AES and Mid-Atlantic to try to minimize the facility and pipeline's harm to surrounding communities and the fragile Chesapeake Bay watershed. It recommends 151 mitigation measures to limit the project's environmental impact. This is 151 mitigation measures too many. Whether the environmental impact of the facility and pipeline's construction or operation is minimal, limited, temporary or long-term, it cannot be made environmentally acceptable to our State. This project is not welcomed in Maryland. You can continue to rubberstamp AES Sparrow Point's application through the FERC review process, but without the support of the State of Maryland, this project will not move forward. ###
04.24.2008	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext By a vote of 395-7, the House of Representatives today approved H.R. 2830, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2007. The bill increases the size of the Coast Guard, reorganizes the Service, and enhances the Coast Guard’s dual mission of homeland security and maritime safety. H.R. 2830 authorizes $8.4 billion for Fiscal Year 2008, increases the size of the Coast Guard by 1,500 military personnel, and extends new benefits to Coast Guard personnel. Under the legislation, the Service’s authorized end strength will grow to a total of 47,000. The bill also allows reimbursement of medical-related travel for members assigned to remote locations, grants access to the Armed Forces Retirement Home system to Coast Guard veterans, and allows Coast Guard personnel who work in support of a declaration of a major disaster or emergency issued by the President to retain up to a total of 90 days of accrued leave, up from the current 60 days. “From 1975, the Coast Guard personnel authorization was at 39,000. We added 27 new functions over the years, under various Presidents, without substantially increasing personnel. We do that in this bill, so that the Coast Guard can adequately serve the needs of its many missions, including safety—search and rescue, navigation, maritime safety—and the security functions of the Coast Guard in this era of homeland security,” said Rep. James L. Oberstar, Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and sponsor of the bill. “We are going to assure that the Coast Guard has adequate personnel to carry out all of its responsibilities.” Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (Md.), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, said that the bill addresses a concern that the Coast Guard’s marine safety functions have been hampered by a shortage of trained personnel. "When we are dealing with a life or death situation, with an emergency, disaster, or with any of the other critical functions of the Coast Guard's marine safety program, it is essential that the individuals dispatched to respond meet the highest standards of training," Cummings said. "Without taking away any of the resources or flexibility that the Coast Guard needs to perform any other mission, this important legislation guarantees that those tasked with ensuring our marine safety are qualified to do so." H.R. 2830 also implements the Administration’s proposal to reorganize the Coast Guard. It eliminates the two Area Commands that are established by law and the Coast Guard Chief of Staff position, and replaces these positions with four Vice Admirals: the Deputy Commandant for Mission Support; the Deputy Commandant for National Operations and Policy; the Commander, Force Readiness Command; and the Commander, Operations Command. Under the bill, the Vice Commandant of the Coast Guard will be promoted to the rank of full Admiral. The bill strengthens vessel safety, port security, and protects the environment. The bill improves training, construction and enforcement standards for commercial fishing vessels. It requires that U.S. vessels carrying more than 600 cubic meters of oil have double hulls around their fuel tanks to prevent the disastrous consequences of accidents such as the one that occurred last November when the COSCO BUSAN released its cargo of heavy fuel oil into San Francisco Bay. It also requires ships to begin installing ballast water treatment systems in 2009 to control the introduction of invasive species into U.S. ports and waterways. Finally, the bill reforms the Coast Guard’s troubled Deepwater assets procurement program, and prevents maritime pollution. ###
04.24.2008	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, urged his colleagues to vote for H.R. 2830, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2008, which President Bush threatened to veto yesterday. “I am simply appalled that President Bush would refer to protecting our families as an ‘unwarranted and unnecessary subsidy,’” Congressman Cummings said. “Vetoing this bill would be the equivalent of vetoing the safety and security of American families, vetoing safe air and water, and vetoing the rights of the men and women working in our marine industry.” The bill, which is scheduled for a vote today, would implement new policies to strengthen the Coast Guard’s marine safety program and protect air and water quality. The President has threatened to veto the bill based on Section 720, which addresses the threats posed by liquefied natural gas (LNG), a highly flammable substance that can cause a fire so hot that it emits thermal radiation—burning those who are up to one mile away from the fire. Despite contrary claims from the Administration, Section 720 would not require the Coast Guard to divert any unnecessary resources for LNG security; striking this section from the bill would, in fact, put communities at risk by allowing for the approval of security plans for LNG terminals, even if the Coast Guard and State and local governments do not have the necessary resources to defend a facility from a terrorist attack. “The Coast Guard Authorization is a comprehensive, bipartisan piece of legislation that enacts common-sense policies to improve this important branch of the U.S. military,” Congressman Cummings said. “I urge all of my colleagues to vote their conscience and support this long overdue legislation.” In addition to strengthening security at LNG terminals, highlights of H.R. 2830 and its amendments up for consideration today include: Authorizing $8.4 billion for the Coast Guard ($200 million over the President’s budget) and an increase in the total number of military personnel to 47,000, and implementing new initiatives to increase diversity within the Service. Setting new and increasingly stringent standards for the treatment of ballast water, through which invasive species have been introduced to some of our nation’s most fragile marine environments. Moving the appeals process for suspensions or revocations of a mariner’s license to the National Transportation Safety Board’s Administrative Law Judge System, in response to testimony before the CGMT Subcommittee by former Coast Guard ALJ’s who indicated a working environment that did not support the exercise of judicial independence. Ensuring that all marine safety personnel—whose jobs are critical to the safety of passenger and other vessels—are qualified to do their jobs. Requiring cruise lines to provide on their public websites a link to an online database maintaining statistics of missing persons and alleged crimes committed on cruise ships. ###
04.23.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: Bush Must Re-think a Veto of Our Homeland Security Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, provided the following statement in response to the Statement of Administration Policy (SAP) released this morning threatening a veto of H.R. 2830, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2008. Specifically, the President opposes Section 720, a provision dealing with security of liquefied natural gas terminals: “The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2008 is a comprehensive piece of legislation that strengthens the Coast Guard’s marine safety program, protects our environment, and provides critical resources needed by the U.S. Coast Guard to protect our nation. Additionally, it includes a provision to protect our communities from the threats posed by Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), a highly flammable substance that, if ignited, will feed a fire burning so hot that it may emit thermal radiation that could burn even those who are up to one mile away from the fire. “Clearly, the terminals handling LNG require the highest levels of security and preparedness. Striking this provision, as the Administration recommends, would put our communities at risk by allowing the operation of LNG terminals near our communities even if the necessary resources to protect both the terminals and the LNG tankers from terrorist attacks are not available. I am simply appalled that this Administration would refer to protecting our families as an ‘unwarranted and unnecessary subsidy.’ “The LNG provision is designed for no other reason than to ensure that we have in place the resources we need to secure LNG terminals – including state and local law enforcement that can meet the highest standards of preparedness, and I strongly encourage this Administration to reconsider this threat to veto the safety and security of American families.” ###
04.15.2008	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the statement below following a hearing convened by the Subcommittee to examine the proposed FY2009 budget and institutional management practices of the Federal Maritime Commission (FMC): “Our nation’s maritime industry requires a Federal Maritime Commission that can move quickly to analyze critical regulatory issues and render fair and impartial decisions. I am deeply concerned that the four individuals serving as Commissioners of the FMC are not effectively working together to manage its business and reach this end. “Clearly, there will be challenges present in any agency with a vacancy in the position of its Chairman, but the testimony of the FMC Commissioners today suggests that these individuals do not have visibility over all of the decisions made in their names and have not made the commitment necessary to exercise their shared duties in a responsible manner. “As federal employees and public servants, it is imperative that the Commissioners be present at the FMC to fully understand the workings of the agency and make informed decisions about both the management of the Commission and the regulation of the maritime industry. Yet, it appears that these individuals have been absent from their posts for significant periods of time. Furthermore, the FMC, as a federal agency, must include regular, public meetings to discuss the critical issues confronted by our maritime industry. “The Commissioners promised during today’s hearing to present the Subcommittee with an update in two months outlining steps they have taken to ensure that the FMC is prepared to serve its regulatory function and that the Commission’s administration is effectively managed to create an organization that can attract and retain qualified staff. I look forward to receiving this update along with concrete evidence of progress. Our Subcommittee expects—and our nation’s maritime industry deserves—significant improvements in the FMC’s operations.” ###
04.03.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: We Must Eradicate the Tolerance of Irresponsibility in the FAA start text end text
04.02.2008	Baltimore, Md.— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, released the following statement today in response to the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Proposed Rule on Railroad Tank Car Safety Standards: “Seven years later, I am still unable to drive down Howard Street without thinking of the devastating fire caused by the ignition of flammable liquid that leaked from several tank cars that were punctured when a train derailed in the tunnel below. In my role on the House Committee of Transportation and Infrastructure, I am committed to protecting our communities from experiencing such a disaster again. “Part of the safety regime necessary to prevent any future events such as the Howard Street Tunnel fire must include improving the standards of the tank cars carrying Poison Inhalation Hazard (PIH) substances, and the proposed plan presented by the U.S. Department of Transportation—while long overdue—is a great first step in achieving this goal. “It is critical that hazardous materials are transported in a modernized fleet of tank cars meeting the highest standards of quality, and it appears that the DOT proposal adequately recognizes this. However, we must also be realistic in understanding the significant costs associated with such improvements and ensure that we have a fair and reasonable plan to determine how such costs will be borne. “As we eagerly welcome the start of baseball season, we must be confident that our friends and families are safe at Camden Yards when trains carrying toxic chemicals pass by in such close proximity. Although the best precaution would be to suspend transportation of the most dangerous materials during major events downtown, by increasing the safety standards of the tank cars used to transport these substances, we will be one step closer to achieving these safety goals.” ###
03.19.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on the 5th Anniversary of Combat in Iraq Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement regarding the 5thAnniversary of the War in Iraq: “We have been sacrificing lives and taxpayer dollars to fuel a war in Iraq that this Administration began under an array of lies. Five years later, with nearly 4,000 American lives lost, tens of thousands of Americans wounded, millions of innocent Iraqis killed, and billions upon billions of dollars spent, our country is less secure, our armed forces are stretched alarmingly thin, our emergency war stockpiles are all but depleted, and there is still no end in sight. “Yet, President Bush still insists on staying the course of this poorly-planned war. His current course will keep us in Iraq for at least ten years and cost American taxpayers at least $3 trillion, all the while continuing to put our own national security at risk. We cannot allow the President to continue driving our country into debt while turning his back on those who are suffering in our own backyard. “My colleagues and I are committed to charting a new direction in Iraq—one that relies on multilateral and bilateral initiatives in the region, as well as an Iraqi government that can stand on its own. It is only by creating a strategy in Iraq that includes diplomatic relations at the international and regional levels that we will be able to redeploy our troops in a timely and responsible manner and begin restoring the damage that has been wrought on our national security, our military, and our nation’s reputation.” ###
03.18.2008	Baltimore, Md.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) and Joanna Smith-Ramani, Executive Director of the Baltimore CASH Campaign, held a press conference with Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.), Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (Md.-02) and John Sarbanes (Md.-03), and Richard "Rick" E. Byrd, Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service Wage & Investment Division, to educate Baltimore taxpayers about the federal economic stimulus rebate checks, who is eligible, and how to access the money. "We all continue to feel the impact of our struggling economy—from record-high home heating bills to skyrocketing gas prices. The rebates provided by the economic stimulus package will provide extensive relief to those who are living on fixed incomes, watching the value of their dollars being stretched thinner and thinner," Congressman Cummings said. "We cannot afford to allow any of these individuals to miss out on this money because they did not know about it." "The economic stimulus package includes relief for approximately 20 million seniors, but everyone must file to get their rebate," said Senator Cardin. "The Baltimore CASH Campaign can provide seniors with free assistance in helping them file for their refund. I urge seniors to take advantage of their assistance to ensure they get all the money they are entitled to from the IRS." "We fought in Congress to get seniors and veterans included in the rebate program, because after a lifetime of raising their families and serving their country, they deserve a little extra help during this economic downturn," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. "I am happy to work with my fellow members in Congress to spread the word about the rebate provisions in the economic stimulus," said Congressman John Sarbanes. "A lot of people may not know about the rebate, but we want everyone who is eligible to receive a check to be informed. It is important for them and it is important for the economy." The economic stimulus package will provide 2.5 Maryland families with up to $1200, plus an additional $300 per child. Single individuals are also eligible for rebates between $300 and $600. Most recipients need only file their taxes in the normal manner to receive checks. However, many individuals who rely on a fixed income from social security, disabled veterans’ benefits, and railroad benefits and do not typically need to file tax returns will need to file this year in order to obtain their rebates. The legislators encouraged individuals to take advantage of services provided by organizations such as the Baltimore CASH Campaign, which provides free tax preparation sites throughout the City to low-income families. In addition to free tax-preparation, CASH also helps residents access other wealth-creating opportunities such as Savings Accounts, U.S. Savings Bonds, matched-savings accounts, and housing counseling. ###
03.18.2008	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, released the following statement following the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) announcement that it will be conducting a “special emphasis review” to ensure that commercial air carriers are complying with airworthiness directives: “The FAA’s announcement today to directing a ‘special emphasis review’ of commercial carriers is a good step forward following last week’s news that dozens of Southwest planes had airworthiness violations. I am deeply concerned that—for whatever reason—airlines have not been complying with applicable airworthiness directives. “However, I cannot help but question how we got to a place where such a review has become necessary. I strongly recommend that, while the FAA looks into the air carriers it is charged with regulating, it also examine the adequacy of its own oversight activities. Southwest should never have been out of compliance with any directive in the first place, and we must get to the bottom of how this was allowed to happen—particularly when it appears that FAA personnel were aware of the non-compliance. “Clearly there has been a serious systemic breakdown in the mechanisms on which we rely to ensure traveler safety. Many families will be traveling over the next few weeks for the Easter holiday and their children’s Spring Breaks. These people deserve to know that their hard earned dollars are being spent for trips on safe and dependable equipment. I am encouraged by the FAA’s first steps in ensuring that these passengers can indeed rest assured that they will be traveling safely, and I look forward to hearing how it plans to continue restoring traveler confidence from here.” ###
03.07.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Countrywide CEO Agrees to Work With Cummings Angelo Mozilo will assign staff to assist constituents in danger of foreclosure start text end text
03.06.2008	Washington, DC— Representative Elijah E. Cummings (MD-7) and U.S. Senators Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) have introduced a concurrent resolution in the House of Representatives and the Senate to support the goals and ideals of a national day of remembrance for Harriet Ross Tubman, one of the great “conductors” of the Underground Railroad. Her life as a former slave, abolitionist, humanitarian, Union spy, and daughter of Maryland helped hundreds of slaves realize freedom through her courageous and selfless efforts. This bipartisan legislation was co-sponsored by 66 Members of the House of Representatives and 4 Senators (listed below). “Harriet Tubman embodied the courage and ideals that have led our country down the road of progress toward recognizing every single human being—regardless of color, gender, religion, or any other characteristic—as being equal. She was a true leader and remains an inspiration for men and women everywhere,” said Congressman Cummings. “Her principles and perseverance are rare even today, and I am pleased to honor her contributions to the freedoms of this country by supporting a national day of remembrance.” “Harriet Tubman’s dedicated pursuit of the American ideals of equality and liberty continues to inspire all of us who cherish freedom. Her legacy as the American Moses, leading her people to freedom, is one of selflessness and dedication to human rights,” said Senator Cardin. “As we close Black History Month and begin Women’s History Month, I am proud to honor the life of Harriet Tubman, a true American hero and role model for generations.” “Harriet Tubman was a courageous fighter who delivered 300 slaves to freedom on her Underground Railroad and was tireless in her commitment to fight for those who could not fight themselves. I am proud to introduce this resolution that honors her memory,” said Senator Mikulski. “If there is no struggle, there is no progress. Harriet Tubman knew that, and so do I. Her legacy continues to inspire me and I am proud to fight every day for the freedom and equality she dedicated her life to.” Harriet Tubman has received innumerable commendations for her role in American history. Maryland, Delaware, Georgia, New York, and Texas host annual events on March 10 to honor her life. In 1944, the Maritime Commission launched the SS Harriet Tubman, the first Liberty ship ever named for an African-American woman. In 1978, Harriet Tubman was the first honoree of the Postal Service Black Heritage Stamp Series. The goals and ideals of a national day of remembrance for Harriet Tubman include such activities as ceremonies, programs, and other activities in remembrance of Harriet Tubman and to acknowledge her importance in American history. Born into slavery in Dorchester County, Maryland, as Araminta Ross around 1820, she worked as a slave for several families throughout her childhood. Abused and beaten, she suffered a serious head injury that would affect her for the rest of her life. In 1844, she married John Tubman and took the first name of her mother, Harriet. In 1849, Harriet Tubman escaped to Philadelphia. She launched her work as a “conductor” on the Underground Railroad soon after, making several trips back for family members and friends. Tubman continued to risk capture for more than a decade, delivering enslaved people from bondage to freedom in New England and Canada. Referred to as “Moses” because of her courage and sacrifice, she personally led more than a dozen expeditions, helping slaves escape. In 1859, Harriet Tubman purchased a home for her family in Auburn, New York. While there, she continued her role as an abolitionist, making several trips to Boston to speak alongside Frederick Douglass and others. When the Civil War erupted in 1861, Tubman volunteered. She worked for the Union Army as a nurse, scout, spy, and recruiter, and became the first woman to lead an armed expedition in the war, resulting in the liberation of hundreds of slaves. Traveling through Maryland, South Carolina, and Virginia, Harriet Tubman risked disease, capture, and physical injury to support the Union Army. After the war, Harriet Tubman returned to Auburn. She became active in the women’s suffrage movement and worked alongside Susan B. Anthony and Emily Howland. She continued to fight for human dignity, human rights, and equal justice throughout her lifetime. She died of pneumonia on March 10, 1913 surrounded by family and friends. In recognition of her service to this country, she was buried with military honors at the Fort Hill Cemetery in Auburn. Current House co-sponsors include Representatives Arcuri (NY-24); Barrow (GA-12); Bartlett (MD-6); Bishop (GA-2); Bordallo (Guam); Boswell (IA-3); Brady (PA-1); Braley (IA-1); Brown (FL-3); Butterfield (NC-1); Christensen (USVI); Cleaver (MO-1); Cohen (TN-9); Conyers (MI-14); Davis (IL-7); Ellison (MN-5); Fattah (PA-2); Filner (CA-51); Gilchrest (MD-1); Green (TX-9); Grijalva (AZ-7); Hall (NY-19); Hare (IL-17); Hastings (FL-23); Higgins (NY-27); Hinchey (NY-22); Hirono (HI-2); Honda (CA-15); Hoyer (MD-5); Jackson-Lee (TX-18); Jefferson (LA-2); Johnson (GA-4); Johnson (TX-30); Kucinich (OH-10); Lampson (TX-22); Lee (CA-9); Lewis (GA-5); Lynch (MA-9); Maloney (NY-14); Markey (MA-7); Matsui (CA-5); Meek (FL-17); Meeks (NY-6); McCollum (MN-4); McGovern (MA-3); Moore (KS-3); Moore (WI-4); Moran (VA-8); Nadler (NY-8); Payne (NJ-10); Rangel (NY-15); Rothman (NJ-9); Roybal-Allard (CA-34); Ruppersberger (MD-2); Sarbanes (MD-3); Scott (VA-3); Serrano (NY-16); Sutton (OH-13); Thompson (MS-2); Towns (NY-10); Tubbs-Jones (OH-11); Van Hollen (MD-8); Wasserman Schultz (FL-20); Waters (CA-35); Woosley (CA-6); Wynn (MD-4). Current Senate co-sponsors include Senators George V. Voinovich (R-OH), Thomas R. Carper (D-DE), Joseph R. Biden (D-DE), and Carl Levin (D-MI) ###
03.06.2008	Washington, DC—One year ago, Deamonte Driver, a 12-year-old boy growing up minutes from Washington, DC, died due to complications resulting from an untreated toothache. In his honor, U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Thad Cochran (R-MS), and Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) announced new legislation to increase access to dental care. “I hear all the time across Ohio about how families struggle with dental problems,” Senator Brown said.“People often think of health care in terms of the physical body, from the neck down, and they overlook the importance of dental health. This bill would keep families from relying on emergency rooms for dental care.” “Recent studies have shown that poor dental health in children may increase the risk of long-term health conditions,” Senator Cochran said. “I am pleased to introduce this legislation to improve access to dental care and strengthen the dental health workforce.” “There is no excuse for Deamonte’s death, and the fault lies with every single one of us for letting him slip through the cracks,” Congressman Cummings said. “During the past year, we have made great strides on all fronts to ensure that every other Deamonte out there has access to dental care. This tragedy should never have taken place, and this critical new legislation will ensure that we bring life from this child’s death.” Deamonte Driver, from Maryland, died last February when an untreated tooth infection spread to his brain. Eighty dollars worth of dental care could have saved his life, but Deamonte was homeless and did not have access to a dentist. Deamonte spent two weeks in the hospital, accruing more than $200,000 in medical bills before he passed away. In an effort to honor this boy’s life, Brown, Cochran, and Cummings named their dental care bill in his memory: the Deamonte Driver Dental Care Access Improvement Act of 2008. The Brown-Cochran-Cummings legislation would: Provide grants to federally qualified community health centers to expand the dental services they provide to underserved populations. Such services would include mobile dentistry and teledentistry. Create a pilot program to test models of an allied dental health professional whose purpose is to increase access to care for underserved populations. Provide a tax credit up to $5,000 for dentists who treat Medicaid, CHIP, and uninsured patients. Direct the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to launch a public education and prevention campaign on children’s dental health. Require states to report annually to the federal government details on children’s access to dental care under their Medicaid and SCHIP plans. Instruct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to coordinate prenatal and maternal child health programs to ensure they include dental health promotion in their activities. Direct the Comptroller General to evaluate the adequacy of Medicaid and SCHIP reimbursement for dental services. Provide grants to train dentists, hygienists, and dental students in pediatric dentistry. ###
03.04.2008	Washington, DC—Today, following the release of a report by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Congressmen Steny H. Hoyer (Md.-5), Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-7), Albert R. Wynn (Md.-4), Chris Van Hollen (Md.-8), and John Sarbanes (Md.-3) called on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to repeal new Medicaid rules imposed by the President that would drastically cut funding to critical programs or eliminate the programs altogether. The report was compiled with information from state Medicaid directors following the refusal of CMS to provide estimates of how proposed budget cuts would impact individual states. According to the states, the new regulations would reduce federal payments by nearly $50 billion over the next five years—a significant discrepancy from the $15 billion projected by the President. In Maryland, which is considered to have one of the best Medicaid programs in the country, the proposal would result in a loss of millions of dollars for a variety of programs. The exact cost is unknown because the regulatory language is so vague, raising additional concerns about how these regulations will be implemented. In the case of critical targeted case management services, the State stands to lose more than $66 million for FY2008 alone. The State also estimates a loss of $1 million in funding for children with special needs. Additional cuts to the State’s programs include eliminating essential services such as a statewide hotline for patients looking for doctors, as well as cuts to outpatient hospital services, provider taxes, and rehabilitative services. “The report confirms what Governors across the country from both parties have feared - that the new Medicaid regulations would have a harmful effect on state budgets, health care providers and - most importantly - the populations served by Medicaid,” stated Congressman Steny H. Hoyer. “In Maryland, the changes would result in a reduction of critical services and a lower quality of care for Medicaid recipients. At a time when the economy is significantly slowing down, it makes no sense to implement changes that compromise a program serving those families who are most in need.” “These irresponsible new regulations are nothing less than an attempt by this Administration to cut our nation’s largest federal entitlement program, which is charged with providing health care to 60 million of our most vulnerable citizens,” said Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. “It is simply unconscionable that this Administration would try take away such critical services from so many Marylanders—particularly as our families continue to experience the effects of the President’s poor economic policies.” “The Bush Administration’s policy of restricting critical Medicaid programs is yet another effort to divert resources in order to continue funding this ‘black hole of a war.’ It further illustrates his willingness to abandon the citizens most in need in order to promote his own irresponsible priorities,” said Congressman Albert R. Wynn. “Limiting the availability of proper healthcare for the poor, children and the disabled, particularly in this time of uncertainty, is essentially kicking people while they’re already down.” “As the economy is slowing down, the last thing that we should be doing is taking away health care benefits from people who need them most,” said Congressman Chris Van Hollen. “This report confirms what we already know. These new regulations would have a devastating effect on healthcare providers and the quality of care received by children and families. The Bush Administration should reverse this decision.” “When you consider rising prices and other burdens facing our working families, these cuts are particularly cynical because they come at a time when these services are most needed and affect those who need them most,” said Congressman John Sarbanes. “We need leadership that puts working people first, instead of making them an afterthought.” ###
02.29.2008	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) was named one of the Best Representatives of Children for scoring 100 percent on the Children’s Defense Fund Action Council (CDFAC) 2007 Nonpartisan Congressional Scorecard, which grades every Member of Congress based on key votes affecting children. Less than forty percent of the House of Representatives received a perfect score. “Our children are the living messages we send to a future we will never see, and I am fully committed to ensuring that they make it to that future as healthy, well-educated, and happy as possible,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am extremely honored to be named one of the Best Representatives for Children, and I am committed to continuing my work to guarantee that we are all doing our parts to protect our most precious resource and most vulnerable population.” The CDFAC scorecard is determined by how Members voted on ten key issues that directly affect the lives of our children. This year’s votes included protecting children from unsafe medications (H.R. 2900), extending coverage to 4.1 million additional uninsured children (H.R. 3162), providing funding increases for key mental health, education, and job training programs (H.R. 3043), and improving the Head Start program (H.R. 142). “There is no reason why—in the wealthiest country in the world—we have children living in poverty with no access to quality health care, no access to quality education, and no access to a positive future where they can be the best that they can be,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is critical that we all do everything in our power to live up to the standards that our children deserve.” Information about the Children’s Action Defense Action Council and how Members of Congress scored on the 2007 Nonpartisan Congressional Scorecard can be obtained by visiting www.cdfactioncouncil.org. ###
02.28.2008	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) today joined his Team Maryland Colleagues Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D), Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D), and Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D) and John Sarbanes (D) in urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to reject the AES Sparrows Point LNG, LLC application to create a proposed Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) site at Sparrows Point in Baltimore. In a letter to FERC Chairman Joseph Kelliher, Team Maryland pointed to yesterday’s U.S. Coast Guard waterway suitability report that states that the Port of Baltimore is not suitable for LNG activities because AES’ risk calculations and proposed risk reduction measures were insufficient. If the application is approved, LNG tankers would have to travel through the narrowest portions of the Chesapeake Bay, under the Bay Bridge, through heavily used commercial fishing and recreational boating areas, to the mouth of the Port of Baltimore. This is a densely populated area that is less than two miles away from residential communities that are home to more than 65,000 residents. “It is my responsibility as Maryland’s senior Senator, to make sure the right people are asking the right questions to protect Baltimore. I have always opposed a new LNG facility in Sparrows Point, but today there is even more evidence that a new site is unsafe and unwise,” said Senator Mikulski, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. “The Coast Guard has confirmed what I have been saying for more than a year – AES is not prepared, and our state and local law enforcement are too stretched and strained to fill the gap.” “I continue to strongly oppose building a LNG facility at Sparrows Point, and the U.S. Coast Guard report confirms that this location would present serious security problems. In addition to the Coast Guard’s concerns, the LNG terminal lacks the support of the community and state and federal officials who are worried about the safety and security of area residents. It is time for FERC to take action to ensure that the proposed LNG facility is not built at Sparrows Point,” said Senator Cardin. “When it comes to the safety of Maryland families, we simply cannot afford to get things wrong. This is the second time that AES has submitted a waterway suitability assessment, and the second time the Coast Guard has deemed the assessment unsatisfactory,” said Congressman Cummings, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. “It is alarmingly clear that Sparrows Point is not an ideal location for an LNG terminal, and it is critical that FERC act accordingly by rejecting the application.” “Enough is enough. How much longer do our citizens have to go through this? Sparrows Point is not the right location for an LNG facility. This Coast Guard report proves that. AES Corporation, a company with $12 billion in annual revenue, is not taking security seriously and wants the Coast Guard and the Maryland tax payers to foot the bill. FERC needs to put an end to this and deny the application once and for all,” said Congressman Ruppersberger, a member of the House Intelligence Committee. “The debate about whether or not to place a LNG facility at Sparrows Point has always hinged on the issue of safety. That is at the heart of the Coast Guard’s findings and should weigh heavily on FERC’s decision,” said Congressman Sarbanes. The text of letter: Dear Chairman Kelliher: We urge you to seriously consider the U.S. Coast Guard’s waterway suitability report and reject the AES Sparrows Point LNG, LLC (AES) application. Yesterday, the U.S. Coast Guard released a report stating that the Port of Baltimore is not suitable for LNG activities because AES’ risk calculations and proposed risk reduction measures were not sufficient. As we feared all along, the Coast Guard confirmed that both they and our state and local law enforcement are already stretched too thin and simply don’t have the resources to adequately protect the LNG tankers and facility. As you know, we have repeatedly expressed our opposition to the proposed LNG site in Baltimore County, Maryland due to our concerns about the safety and security of the surrounding communities. On April 23, 2007, Mr. Richard R. Hoffman, from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (FERC) Office of Energy Projects, testified before the U.S. House of Representatives’ Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. Mr. Hoffman clearly stated that he thought any proposed facility that did not receive a favorable waterway suitability report would not go forward. We appreciate your consideration of this important issue and look forward to a prompt reply. # # #
02.28.2008	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) joined the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD) and the Office of Head Start (OHS) to announce a new $10 million partnership to help combat children’s tooth decay. Under the partnership, OHS will award a five-year, $10 million contract to the AAPD to establish dental homes for one million children enrolled annually in OHS programs. Dental decay is currently the single most common chronic disease in children, and the prevalence of tooth decay in children in a number of Head Start programs is higher than the national average. “Proper dental care is not just about having a nice smile; it is a critical component in children’s overall health and development,” Congressman Cummings said. “This partnership will help us make great strides in our fight to ensure that all children have access to quality health care.” The announcement came during the week of the one-year anniversary of the death of Deamonte Driver, a twelve-year-old Maryland boy who died when an untreated tooth infection spread to his brain. Following this tragedy, Congressman Cummings made it his personal mission to make progress on multiple fronts to ensure that other children would not suffer Deamonte’s fate. Congressman Cummings introduced Deamonte’s Law, H.R. 2371, to increase access to children’s dental services. He also authored and ensured the inclusion of provisions in the reauthorization of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program to provide guaranteed dental benefits, increase the capacity of community health centers, and create an education campaign for new parents. He is currently working on legislation with Sen. Sherrod Brown of Ohio that would go even further. At the state level, Congressman Cummings has been working closely with Governor Martin O’Malley to champion reforms to drastically improve access to children’s dental care in Maryland. He also facilitated a partnership between the University of Maryland (UM) Dental School and United Health, wherein United Health will provide the dental school with more than $170,000 to address the shortage of dentists trained in pediatrics and to help Medicaid patients more easily gain access to dental care. Additionally, he has partnered with the Baltimore City Health Department and UM Dental School to provide Head Start children with free dental screenings. “What happened to Deamonte Driver was unacceptable and unnecessary, and it spoke to systemic failures throughout our entire health care system,” Congressman Cummings said. “Although we were unable to stop this tragedy from occurring, we can all commit to preventing it from happening to all of the other Deamontes out there.” ###
02.27.2008	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement today regarding the Committee’s decision to refer Roger Clemens to the Justice Department for investigation of perjury: “As a senior member of the Oversight Committee, I fully support the decision of Chairman Waxman and Ranking Member Davis to refer the testimony of Roger Clemens to the Justice Department. There is significant evidence to warrant an investigation into the truthfulness of Mr. Clemens’s sworn testimony before our Committee. Lying under oath to the federal government is a serious offense, and it is my hope that the Department of Justice will be successful in getting to the truth of this matter.” ###
02.27.2008	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) joined a majority of his colleagues in passing the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act of 2008 (H.R. 5351). The bill, which passed by a vote of 236-182, invests in energy independence, creates and preserves hundreds of thousands of new jobs, and repeals billions of dollars of subsidies to oil companies. “The prices of gas, home heating oil, and crude oil under the energy policies of President Bush and the previously Republican-led Congress have continuously skyrocketed—along with the profits of big oil companies,” Congressman Cummings said. “Today’s legislation takes substantial steps toward helping hardworking families cope with these rising costs, while also improving our energy independence and repealing the billions of dollars in government handouts that are lining the pockets of oil companies.” Since 2001, oil imports have risen by 1.6 million barrels a day, and the share of liquid fuel consumed by the United States that is imported has increased from 52% to 60%. The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Tax Act reduces the nation’s dependence on foreign oil, thereby increasing national security by investing in renewable electricity production such as wind, solar, geothermal, and fuel technology. The legislation will preserve about 116,000 jobs that would be lost if current renewable energy incentives are allowed to expire. Additionally, the new investments in renewable energy are expected to create hundreds of thousands of additional green-collar jobs. To uphold fiscal responsibility in paying for these investments, H.R. 5351 repeals billions of dollars gained by unnecessary subsidies and tax loopholes narrowly-targeted to companies such as ExxonMobil, which just reported $40.6 billion in profits for 2007—the largest corporate profit in American history. “While big oil companies have seen profits increase by 300% under the poor policies of the Bush Administration, Maryland families have seen gas prices increase by 114%,” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation is great for our families, great for our national security, and great for our economy. In fact, the only parties who may not benefit from this critical investment in our nation’s future are the big oil companies who reported record profits this year.” ###
02.26.2008	Washington, DC— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the following statement regarding today’s Subcommittee hearing on the FY2009 Coast Guard Budget: “The United States Coast Guard is a critical service with numerous tasks that are vital to our country’s survival. Its members have risked their own lives to save over a million others. This past year alone, its drug interdiction missions prevented $4.7 billion worth of cocaine from reaching our shores and thereby the hands of our neighbors and our children. Its marine safety program and environmental protection are critical to regulating our maritime industry and keeping our waters clean. “Following the 9/11 attacks on our country, the Coast Guard’s responsibilities expanded to include significant responsibilities related to port security. There is no doubt in my mind that this organization has the leadership, dedication, and skills necessary to fulfill these new duties. However, it has become very clear that the Coast Guard does not have the necessary personnel and financial resources to match all of the missions it must perform, straining its ability to balance its new crucial homeland security missions with its traditional responsibilities. “Despite the ever-expanding role of the Coast Guard, its size has not changed in decades. In order for this outstanding organization to continue the unrivaled service it has provided to our nation for more than 200 years, we must ensure that it has the correct mix of personnel, expertise, and technology to accomplish all of its missions. For this reason, it is essential that the Coast Guard provide us with the figures detailing the number of personnel and resources necessary to fulfill all of its duties in the most efficient and effective manner. Once we receive this information, we will be able to react accordingly via the FY2009 Coast Guard Reauthorization.” ###
02.25.2008	Baltimore, Md.— Today, on the one-year anniversary of the death of 12-year-old Deamonte Driver, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) held a press conference to outline the progress in his efforts to ensure dental access for all children and to discuss new legislation that he expects to introduce this week. He was joined by Dr. Norman Tinanoff, Maryland Dental Action Committee Co-Chair and Chair of the University of Maryland Dental School Department of Pediatric Dentistry; Dr. Allen Finkelstein, Chief Dental Officer of United Health; Dr. Charlene Brown, Baltimore City Department of Health Assistant Commissioner of Clinical Services; and Ms. Laurie Norris, attorney for the Public Justice Center who represents Alyce Driver, Deamonte’s mother. “Deamonte’s story is a shocking wake up call to the failures of our health care system, and I will continue moving forward to ensure that from this tragic death we are able to bring life,” Congressman Cummings said. “Dental decay is the single most common childhood disease in the U.S., and I will not relent in this fight until I am assured that every single child who needs to see a dentist is able to do so.” Deamonte, who was homeless, died a year ago when an untreated tooth infection spread to his brain. Although a simple, eighty dollar tooth extraction could have saved his life, his mother was unable to find a dentist willing to accept Medicaid. Congressman Cummings has been a leader in the efforts to increase children’s access to dental care, and he plans to introduce new legislation in conjunction with Senator Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio). The bill aims to establish a dental home for every child by increasing dental services in community health centers and training more individuals in pediatric dentistry. Additionally, the bill offers tax incentives for dentists to treat children with Medicaid. “Deamonte Driver’s death should never have occurred, and the blame rests on every single one of us,” Congressman Cummings said. “We must ensure that no other child is needlessly taken from this world as Deamonte was, and it is only by attacking this problem from all fronts that we can truly affect change.” During the past year, Congressman Cummings has been working with representatives from all levels of government and within the dental and insurance industries to realize many successes in achieving this goal, including: · Facilitating a partnership between the University of Maryland Dental School and United Health, the Driver family’s Medicaid provider, wherein United Health will provide the dental school with more than $170,000 to address the shortage of dentists trained in pediatrics and to help Medicaid patients more easily gain access to dental care. A similar arrangement with Howard University is in the process of being finalized. · Introducing Deamonte’s Law (H.R. 2371), which would increase access to children’s dental services. · Partnering with the Baltimore City Health Department, University of Maryland Dental School, and United Health to provide Head Start children with free dental screenings and educational materials on dental hygiene. · Authoring language in the reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) to increase capacity of community health centers and create an education campaign for new parents, as well as providing guaranteed dental benefits under the SCHIP program. · Working with Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley to champion reforms at the state level to drastically improve children’s access to dental care in Maryland. · Initiating a federal investigation to examine systemic problems within the Medicaid system, resulting in an audit of fifteen states providing inadequate dental care. The results of these investigations will serve as a foundation upon which to implement reforms across the U.S. ###
02.13.2008	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, applauded the enactment of the bipartisan economic stimulus plan, which will provide 2.5 million families in Maryland with tax rebates of up to $1,200 per couple plus $300 per child as early as mid-May. “This is a critical time for our nation’s economy, and this legislation will help hardworking Americans keep their homes warm and families fed while creating an additional 500,000 jobs,” Congressman Cummings said. “In Maryland alone, 2.5 million families will receive an estimated $2.1 billion in rebates to get through these difficult times.” The stimulus plan provides tax rebates for low- and middle-income families who are being hit the hardest by the economic downturn. More than 130 million families—including 35 million working families who make too little money to pay income taxes—will receive a rebate. The plan also provides recovery rebate checks to 28 million households of senior citizens and disabled veterans. Additionally, the stimulus package includes tax cuts for small businesses, doubling the amount that can be written off immediately for capital investments, and encouraging investments in new equipment. It also includes provisions to help families facing foreclosure by expanding affordable mortgage loan opportunities and including an increase in loan limits for single-family homes from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. “Although I would have liked to see a stimulus package that includes provisions extending unemployment benefits and food stamps, I am very pleased with the final package that the President has signed into law,” Congressman Cummings said. “I applaud both the President and my colleagues for coming together in such a timely manner to provide relief to the millions of struggling Americans who will benefit from their checks this Spring.” ###
02.11.2008	Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) voted for legislation to address the increasing costs of college tuition and remove many of the obstacles standing in the way of a college education for qualified students. “Each year, we see an increasing number of students finding themselves at opportunity’s doorstop only to realize they are without a key,” Congressman Cummings said. “The College Opportunity and Affordability Act takes the first steps necessary to remove some of the barriers keeping these students from getting through the door.” The legislation, H.R. 4137, passed last week by a vote of 354-58 and builds on the College Cost and Reduction Act that was signed into law last September—the largest increase in student aid since the 1944 GI Bill. The bill includes the following provisions to benefit Maryland’s 7th District that Congressman Cummings fought to have included: Awarding competitive grants to HBCU’s with qualified master’s degree programs, including the nursing program at Coppin State University Removing a drug rehabilitation requirement currently included on the FAFSA application for federal financial aid before the reinstatement of financial aid for students convicted of drug-related offenses. Awarding competitive grants to train teachers in special education Awarding grants to colleges and universities for the development of procedures for emergency communication to students and staff and requiring these institutions to coordinate with local entities to provide mental health crisis response and intervention services following campus emergencies. “Education is the cornerstone to a successful life, and ensuring that every single qualified candidate has access to this critical foundation is a top priority for me,” Congressman Cummings said. “I have always been committed both to ensuring that students have the tools necessary to pursue higher education and to ensuring that institutions of higher learning are not forced to turn these students away due to a lack of resources.” Additionally, the bill streamlines the student financial aid application process, makes textbook costs more manageable, increases college aid and support programs for veterans and military families, and strengthens science, technology, and foreign language educational opportunities. ###
02.07.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) and Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) today led members of the Maryland congressional delegation in introducing the Baltimore National Heritage Area Act. This bill designates the Baltimore Heritage Area (BHA) as a National Park Service (NPS) National Heritage Area (NHA) with $10 million in federal funding over 15 years. Joining Senator Mikulski and Congressman Cummings in co-sponsoring the legislation were Team Maryland colleagues Senator Benjamin L. Cardin and Congressmen Albert Wynn, Chris Van Hollen and John Sarbanes. NHAs are congressionally designated cultural and historical places of national significance. These areas receive technical and financial assistance from the NPS in order to preserve their history and increase tourism. The BHA will be able to use these funds to develop educational exhibits and programs, and protect and restore historic sites and buildings. The BHA is home to 24 national historic landmarks, 53,000 buildings in National Register historic districts, 8,000 buildings in local historic districts, 12 Chesapeake Bay Gateways, five Maryland Scenic Byways and an All-American Road. The heritage area includes such neighborhoods as Druid Hill Park, Fells Point, Oliver, Jonestown, Little Italy, Mount Vernon, Canton, Patterson Park, Jones Falls Valley and Locust Point. “I am proud to be from a city with such a rich heritage and culture as Baltimore. This bill honors our key role in American history for generations to come,” said Senator Mikulski. “We need a federal investment to preserve Baltimore’s national treasures and Maryland’s historical integrity.” “I strongly support establishing a Baltimore National Heritage Area to help us share our rich historic and cultural heritage with the rest of America,” said Senator Cardin. “From Fort McHenry to the U.S.S. Constellation to the home of Frederick Douglass, Baltimore is one of our nation’s premier historic cities, and this designation will enable all Americans to honor and treasure our past.” “I have spent my entire life surrounded by the rich history and diverse cultures that embody the lifeblood of Baltimore City,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am honored to be the lead sponsor on the House version of this bill, to ensure that we can safeguard these fortunes for generations to come.” “The City of Baltimore is an important part of our nation's history and a central part of Maryland's economic and maritime heritage. These designated neighborhoods embody the antiquity and spirit of Maryland. I am proud to join my colleagues from Maryland in preserving this heritage of our state for many generations to come,” said Congressman Wynn. “The Baltimore region is rich in unique historical, natural, and cultural characteristics,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “This legislation will highlight the wonderful traits of the region and ensure that the story of Baltimore is preserved and treasured.” “The role that Baltimore played in shaping American history is one that deserves to be retold,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “Baltimore is a city with vast cultural and historic resources. This heritage area designation will link these resources together in a way that encourages more people to visit Baltimore and learn more about one of America's greatest cities.” ###
02.07.2008	Washington, DC—Today, in recognition of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, encouraged people to speak frankly to their friends and family regarding methods of prevention for HIV/AIDS. “For decades, I have been a leader in addressing the devastating impact of HIV/AIDS, both here and abroad. Although this disease wreaks havoc on the lives of all human beings, it is particularly devastating with the African American community,” Congressman Cummings said. “As we continue to make progress in understanding and treating this pandemic, we must remain vigilant in our movement to educate our friends and family to dispel the myths surrounding its contraction.” Although Blacks comprise only 13 percent of the population, they account for nearly half of the estimated new HIV/AIDS diagnoses reported in the U.S. annually. The rate of HIV/AIDS diagnoses for Black adults and adolescents is 10 times the rate for whites, and when comparing Black women to white women, that number increases to 23. HIV/AIDS is the leading cause of death for African American women ages 25-34 and the second leading cause of death for African American men ages 35-44. “This epidemic is silently killing our friends and family, and it is essential that we begin discussing this topic—regardless of how difficult it may be,” Congressman Cummings said. “Although many of these discussions may prove to be awkward and uncomfortable, they may also prove to be life-saving.” The number one source for the contraction of HIV/AIDS among African American men and women is sexual intercourse. Congressman Cummings believes that in addition to stressing to young people the importance of waiting until marriage to engage in sexual activity, we must also ensure that they understand the importance of using protection if they do choose to have sex. “It is critical that every single sexually active person use protection against sexually transmitted diseases such as HIV/AIDS, and we must all speak frankly to our partners about safe sex,” Congressman Cummings said. “We cannot afford to continue living—and dying—in silence.” ###
02.04.2008	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) released the following statement in response to the FY 2009 budget proposed by President Bush: “For seven years, President Bush has exercised reckless spending and poor budgetary priorities. These irresponsible practices have left our country in shambles. As recession looms in the background, more hardworking families are finding themselves without jobs, health care, or homes. “Continuing on this track the President has presented Congress with a budget that would slash health care for seniors and working families and starve many programs—such as job training resources—that are needed now more than ever. “President Bush managed to turn a record surplus into a record deficit and has, in fact, presided over the five largest deficits in our nation’s history. Through it all, he has assured the American people that there is a light at the end of the tunnel. In his final budget proposal, we see only darkness with more of the same thoughtless spending policies. I am committed to working with my colleagues to craft a bipartisan response that will responsibly fund critical programs to ensure that we can get back on track toward recovering our economy.” ###
01.30.2008	Washington, D.C. – A bipartisan delegation of ten Washington-area Members of Congress sent a letter to President Bush today calling for parity in the 2009 pay adjustments for both military and civilian federal employees. Federal pay parity is a long-standing, bipartisan-supported principle that ensures the pay adjustments for the armed services and civilian workforce are fair, equal, and duly compensate federal employees for their dedicated public service. The letter was sent in advance of the President’s 2009 budget proposal, to be sent to Congress on Monday, February 4. The letter states: We cannot express strongly enough the importance ofcontinuing the tradition of pay parity between military and civilian employees in the coming fiscal year. As we fight the war on terrorism at home and abroad, both the armed services and the federal civilian workforce are integral to fulfilling the role of government for the American people. An equal pay adjustment in 2009 will send the important message that the services civilians and military personnel provide to America every day are highly valued. The Members of the Washington-area delegation work hard every year to secure pay parity for both military and civilian workers employed by the federal government throughout the nation. Their efforts ensure that all federal employees are recognized as equally valuable assets, indispensible to the operations of our federal government. The advocacy of the delegation proved vital to securing a 3.5 percent adjustment for both civilian and military personnel in 2008. The Washington-area Members who signed the letter are: Reps. Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.), Albert R. Wynn (D-Md.), Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), John Sarbanes (D-Md.), Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.), James P. Moran Jr. (D-Va.), Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.), and Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.). The text of the full letter is below. January 30, 2008 The Honorable George W. Bush The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As members of Congress representing tens of thousands of federal civilian employees and military personnel, we are writing to ask that you embrace the principle of pay parity for members of the armed services and the civilian Federal workforce in your fiscal year 2009 budget proposal that you will shortly be sending to Congress. Pay parity is not a new concept. Historically, Congress has expressed strong bipartisan support for parity in pay adjustments between our military and federal civilian sectors, due to the essential service military and civilian employees provide to our nation and the vast wage gap that exists between public and private sector wages. In nearly every year during the past two decades, there have been equal adjustments in the compensation of members of the uniformed services and the compensation of civilian employees of the United States as a means under the General Schedule system to help achieve pay comparability between the public and private sector. We cannot express strongly enough the importance ofcontinuing the tradition of pay parity between military and civilian employees in the coming fiscal year. As we fight the war on terrorism at home and abroad, both the armed services and the federal civilian workforce are integral to fulfilling the role of government for the American people. An equal pay adjustment in 2009 will send the important message that the services civilians and military personnel provide to America every day are highly valued. In addition, the federal government is facing a “human capital crisis,” with many of our most experienced employees poised to retire. It is critical that we be able to recruit and retain quality employees in the future. Thanking you and with kindest personal regards, we are Sincerely, Rep. Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.) Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) Rep. James P. Moran Jr. (D-Va.) Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) Rep. Albert R. Wynn (D-Md.) Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) Rep. John Sarbanes (D-Md.) Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md.) ###
01.30.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings, DeLauro to Mattel: ‘Stop Selling Toxic Toys’ 56 Members of Congress join in letter urging toy company to stop production of toys containing lead. Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Representative Rosa L. DeLauro (D-Ct.), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, joined by a coalition of fifty-four other colleagues, sent a letter yesterday to David Eckert, CEO of Mattel, calling on the company to cease the production of toys containing lead—including a toy known to have high levels of accessible surface lead (text of the letter below). Additionally, Congressman Cummings and Congresswoman DeLauro intend to meet with representatives from Mattel to further discuss this issue. “When the major leaders of the toy industry refuse to take a stand for our children’s safety, a disgracefully low standard is set for other companies,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is simply shocking to the conscience that a company as well-known as Mattel would be lining the toy stores—and the shelves of our children’s bedrooms—with toxic toys.” “Parents should be able to trust that the toys their children play with are safe. With the Consumer Product Safety Commission sitting on the back bench, toy companies must step-up and surpass the standards set by law,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “Recalls based on geography not only allows unsafe toys to get into the hands of our children, but it damages brands like Mattel, which parents have come to rely on. This is about the health and well-being of our children and we should not have a race to the bottom.” Representatives Cummings and DeLauro have both individually written to Mr. Eckert in the past expressing concern over the safety of Mattel’s products. Most recently, in December, Congressman Cummings requested from Mr. Eckert that the company recall a toy medical kit produced by Mattel’s subsidiary, Fisher Price, which ironically contains a red blood pressure cuff with levels of lead at nearly 500% of the federal standard for paint. Additionally, nearly six months ago, when the public began to realize the number of contaminated toys in their homes and on store shelves, Congresswoman DeLauro wrote Mr. Eckert to better understand what the company was doing to institute better practices to prevent tainted toys from entering the marketplace. Dissatisfied with the response from the company, Representatives Cumming and DeLauro circulated this follow-up letter to their colleagues. The Text of the Letter: Mr. Eckert: We write you today not only as federal legislators, but as parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, neighbors, and representatives of the children who find joy in the toys produced by Mattel. We are gravely concerned about the dangers posed to children by the use of lead in your company’s products and urge you, as a father yourself, to completely eliminate the use of lead in the toys produced by your company and all of its subsidiaries. Specifically, we are disturbed by your lack of action upon the discovery that a red toy blood pressure cuff manufactured by Fisher Price, Mattel’s subsidiary, contains high levels of lead; two such cuffs tested at 4500 and 5900 ppm of lead, respectively. It was not until Illinois State Attorney General Lisa Madigan notified you that the toys were in violation of Illinois state regulations that you took any action at all to protect our children, and said action was limited to removing the toy from the shelves of Illinois stores. We find this response to be deficient and encourage you to immediately stop selling the red blood pressure cuff in all states. If this product is too dangerous for the children of Illinois, it is too dangerous for children in the rest of this country. The effects of lead poisoning are irreversible and tragic, and every precaution should be taken in the manufacture of products intended for use by children—our most vulnerable population. The federal lead paint standard established nearly thirty years ago is 600 ppm. If 600ppm is too high for lead paint, then surely lead levels in toys that are 800% to 900% of this standard are unacceptable. The State of Illinois has taken a bold step in passing protective legislation on this issue, and other states and the federal government are examining legislation at least as strict as Illinois’ extension of the 600 ppm limit to all toys, regardless of material. It is unfortunate, however, that toy manufacturers have not voluntarily enacted these standards on their own. In an opinion statement published in the September 11, 2007, issue of the Wall Street Journal responding to criticism over recent recalls of numerous toys due to high levels of lead paint, you wrote: It is my sincere pledge that we will face this challenge with integrity and reaffirm that we will do the right thing. We will embrace this test of our company and the opportunity to become better…[M]y father encouraged me to earn his trust through my actions rather than just talk about what I was going to do…And it is on this principle that Mattel will move forward. We will earn back your trust with our deeds, not just with our words. We encourage you to review your pledge and act accordingly by recalling the red blood pressure cuff. Furthermore, we challenge you to live up to your words and set a standard for the entire industry by completely eliminating the use of lead in all of the children’s products manufactured by Mattel. When parents purchase a product from your company, they are not just purchasing a toy—they are putting their trust in an established brand that has historically been believed to provide merchandise that is safe for their children. We urge you to live up to this reputation. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings, Rosa L. DeLauro, Neil Abercrombie, Thomas H. Allen, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., Corrine Brown, G.K. Butterfield, Kathy Castor, Donna M. Christensen, Yvette D. Clarke, Wm. Lacy Clay, Emanuel Cleaver, Steve Cohen, Artur Davis, Diana DeGette, Keith Ellison, Anna G. Eshoo, Sam Farr, Chaka Fattah, Bob Filner, Barney Frank, Al Green, Raul M. Grijalva, Luis V. Gutierrez, Phil Hare, Baron P. Hill, Maurice D. Hinchey, Sheila Jackson-Lee, Carolyn C. Kilpatrick, Dennis J. Kucinich, John B. Larson, Barbara Lee, John Lewis, Nita M. Lowey, Edward J. Markey, Doris O. Matsui, James P. McGovern, Kendrick B. Meek, Dennis Moore, James P. Moran, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Bill Pascrell, Jr., David E. Price, Silvestre Reyes, Steven R. Rothman, Bobby L. Rush, Linda T. Sanchez, Janice D. Schakowsky, Vic Snyder, Betty Sutton, Bennie G. Thompson, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Melvin L. Watt, Henry A. Waxman, Robert Wexler, Albert R. Wynn ###
01.29.2008	Baltimore, Md.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) released the following statement in response to the President’s visit to an East Baltimore faith-based organization focused on prisoner re-entry programs: “I commend President Bush for taking the time to visit Baltimore to applaud the great work being done here by Jericho to ease the transition for prisoners re-entering society. The assistance provided by organizations focused on offering ex-offenders the tools and resources necessary to find jobs and seamlessly begin new lives are invaluable. However, we must be sure that our support of such crucial neighborhood programs is not limited to those based on faith. There are many organizations and support groups throughout Baltimore and the rest of the country—both faith-based and secular—that are committed to uplifting our citizens and helping those who need it the most. Only by applying a broad approach when providing federal resources and support to our community programs will we be truly successful in turning lives around. ###
01.28.2008	Washington, DC— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement tonight in anticipation of President Bush’s address on the State of the Union: “I, along with most Americans, see the state of the Union every morning when I leave my house. I see it in the form of men and women lined up around the corner of the unemployment office. The state of our Union is evident in the number of ‘for sale’ signs that we pass before we even hit the first ‘stop’ sign on our way to our jobs. It is evident in the houses long-ago foreclosed, still sitting vacant with boarded-up windows. The state of our Union is dire. “Under the last seven years of the Bush presidency, our nation’s economy and our moral authority have been weakened. The President, with the rubber stamp approval of the Republican-led Congress, recklessly spent hundreds of billions of dollars fighting a war in Iraq that should have never been waged while simultaneously neglecting—and in many cases outright ignoring—the critical needs right here in our own backyard. I can think of 10 million ways to spend the more than $10 million a month being funneled into this war, beginning with the children who may find themselves without health insurance as a result of the President’s ill-advised veto of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program authorization. “Tonight, President Bush is expected to speak of our economy as undergoing ‘a period of uncertainty,’ adding that Americans can be confident about our economic growth in the long term. Yet, I imagine that the additional 8.5 million Americans who have found themselves uninsured during Mr. Bush’s presidency and the additional 5 million people who are now living in poverty will find difficulty in mustering up such confidence. The millions of people who have lost their homes in the past year alone—and the additional millions who are currently faced with foreclosure—may find it hard to show confidence in our economy. The hardworking men and women who are being forced to make sacrifices so they can afford record-high heating oil prices and keep their families warm this winter may not so easily believe in the President’s ‘economic growth.’ “Mr. Bush is trying to define his legacy by cherry-picking statistics—just as he cherry-picked intelligence to mislead the American people about the unwarranted need to invade Iraq. However, under the Bush administration, a record surplus plummeted into a record deficit. The number of new jobs created in the private sector decreased by nearly half. Our national debt and trade deficit have both nearly doubled, to $9.2 trillion and $759 billion, respectively. Real income has decreased by $1,000 per household, compared to a $6,000 increase under Democratic leadership. “The Bush legacy is not one of which any president should be proud. It is not one of leadership or of unity. It is not a legacy of sound policies; nor is it a legacy of hope. As we enter the last year of this presidency, the Democratic-led Congress will continue to try to move our nation in a new direction. While the state of our Union is weak, the American people are strong, and this strength will help us endure.” ###
01.24.2008	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to the bipartisan economic stimulus package announced this afternoon: “While I am pleased with the quick manner in which House Democrats and Republicans were able to come together to reach a compromise on an economic stimulus for our lagging economy, I am concerned that the result is not as targeted as it could be. It is my hope that the Senate will be able to use this as a foundation on which to build the timely, targeted, and temporary plan that will maximize the dollar value of the package and truly stimulate our economy in the face of a looming recession. “Many struggling low- and middle-class families will be receiving rebate checks in amounts equaling hundreds of dollars to help them stay above water. However, to truly help those who are being hit the hardest, it is critical that any stimulus package include provisions dealing with food stamps and unemployment benefits. Such provisions also maximize the likelihood that this money would be spent immediately, as opposed to tax rebates that are likely to be applied toward credit card or other types of debt rather than being pumped back into the economy. “The hardworking families who are losing their homes and jobs are not limited to my neighborhood or my home state of Maryland. This is a crisis that is affecting people all across the country, and it is imperative that Congress produces a package that can assist families in need while at the same time strengthening our economy.” ###
01.23.2008	Washington, DC—Today, during a hearing convened to review the progress of the Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) program, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, called upon Lockheed Martin and the U.S. Coast Guard to address the issues impeding a seamless introduction of the program. The TWIC card was designed to prevent access to secure areas of maritime transportation facilities by individuals who pose a threat to our nation’s security. However, reports from workers as well as port authorities have revealed several glitches in the rollout of the program, causing severe inconveniences for those affected by the new measure. “When workers must pay to enroll in a program necessary for them to do their jobs and provide for their families, they have the right to expect reliable, efficient service with little to no interruption to their schedules,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is imperative that Lockheed Martin address the concerns raised during today’s hearing regarding its customer service—including through assurances that every new enrollment center is ready and able to smoothly operate on day one.” According to reports from the first 90 days of TWIC enrollment, workers enrolling in the program have experienced severe deficiencies in customer service, ranging from dysfunctional computers and loss of worker data to delays of up to five hours. One station expected to serve over 30,000 people was staffed with only one employee, while another station closed for the day when its printer ran out of toner. Additionally, while a deadline for enrollment has been established for mariners, the Coast Guard has yet to announce the dates when ports must begin using the credentials. There has also been no clearly established outline distinguishing which maritime vessels must install the machine to read the TWIC cards or set deadlines for land facilities to install the readers. “When the government is imposing new procedures on businesses, it must ensure that these requirements are accompanied by a clear date of implementation and a reasonable timeline for compliance,” Congressman Cummings said. “The Coast Guard must separate from its long history of delays in the promulgation of rules so that mariners and businesses affected by TWIC are able to plan accordingly.” In response to the concerns raised at today’s hearing, Congressman Cummings instructed the Transportation Security Administration, the Coast Guard, and Lockheed Martin to provide a status report on the TWIC enrollment process within 75 days. ###
01.23.2008	Washington, DC—Today, following the failure of the House of Representatives to overturn President Bush’s veto of the revised version of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program reauthorization (H.R. 3963), Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement: “There is no doubt that we are in the midst of an economic crisis. All across the country, hardworking families are losing their homes and their jobs—along with their dreams—as we experience increasing fallout from the lagging economy. In the face of record-high prices to heat their homes this winter or fill their gas tanks to get to work, too many people are being forced to sacrifice other necessities. “Last month, the unemployment rate jumped to 5 percent, leaving an additional 900,000 Americans without jobs when compared to the same time a year before. With analysts estimating that an additional 1.2 to 1.5 million people become uninsured with every percentage point increase in unemployment, the backlash becomes even more severe. “Yet, in the midst of this crisis, when access to health care for children is more critical than ever, President Bush and a number of my Republican colleagues have again refused to join the majority of Americans in supporting the reauthorization of the critical State Children’s Health Insurance Program. “Overriding this veto would have preserved coverage for the 6.6 million children currently covered by SCHIP in addition to covering an additional 3.8 million children who are already eligible for the program and not yet enrolled. A veto override would have also replaced the Bush Administration’s devastating August 17th directive that will throw tens of thousands of children off of SCHIP rolls over the next several months. “Spending a mere $35 billion—compared with the $465 billion we have spent for a failed war in Iraq—to allow struggling families to take their children to the doctor should not be a contentious issue. I am sorely disappointed in my colleagues who continue to play politics with the health of our most vulnerable population.” ###
01.20.2008	Baltimore, Md.—Congresman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) released the following statement today in recognition of Martin Luther King Day, which is observed on Monday, January 21st: “On the third Monday in January, millions of Americans pause to celebrate the life and legacy of a world leader. “Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. changed the path of America's conscience and contributed more to the causes of national freedom and equality than any other individual of the 20th century. “Dr. King worked tirelessly to promote the political, economic and social rights of all Americans, particularly those who felt that equal justice was beyond their reach. His passion was unmatched, his strength and perseverance were tireless, and his enduring commitment to peace has provided an example to us all. “America has far to go in the struggle to recognize all of its citizens as equals, but we must never give up on Dr. King’s dream of a better future for our nation. “As we mark the national celebration of Dr. King’s birthday, let us not merely reflect on his work, but let us live his legacy by doing all that we can to advance the movement for civil rights, justice and world peace.” ###
01.18.2008	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman Cummings Hopeful Following President’s Remarks Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in response to the President’s remarks in support of a bipartisan economic stimulus package: “We are undoubtedly in the midst of an economic crisis, on the brink of falling into a recession. Low- and middle-class families throughout Maryland and the rest of the country are already experiencing the fallout from the lagging economy. Hardworking families are losing their homes and their jobs—along with their dreams. In the face of record-high heating oil and gas prices, people are being forced to make sacrifices just to keep their homes warm this winter or drive to work. “We need to enact a bipartisan stimulus package that is timely, targeted, and temporary, and I am encouraged that President Bush seems willing to cooperate with Congress to reach this end. I will continue working with my colleagues to ensure that we act quickly to pass the package resulting from current negotiations.” ###
01.17.2008	Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement today applauding the Bush Administration’s release of $450 million in energy assistance to help seniors and working families pay home heating bills: “As recession looms closer than ever, it is critical that we make every effort to minimize its impact on hardworking Maryland families. Unfortunately, for the many people in our State who find themselves struggling in the midst of a permanent recession, this impact is already being felt. “Americans using heating oil will pay more than $2,000 per family this winter—over three times the cost of oil in 2001. In the face of these record-high prices to heat their homes this winter, many Marylanders are sadly being forced to choose which other necessities must be sacrificed. “I am very pleased that the Bush Administration responded to the calls of Congress to release emergency funding under the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). The $2.4 million in funds dedicated to Maryland will provide critical help to seniors and working families trying to keep warm this winter. “Our economy is in a crisis, and we must continue working together to help families address the serious challenges presented as a result. I will continue working with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to take all necessary measures to help Marylanders keep their heads above water.” ###
01.17.2008	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, joined his colleagues in a vote of 271-130 to reauthorize and improve the valuable HOPE VI program that revitalizes severely distressed and obsolete public housing projects. The HOPE VI program allows Public Housing Associations (PHA) to apply for funds to demolish or renovate housing complexes. In addition to reauthorizing the program for an additional eight years, the HOPE VI Improvement and Reauthorization Act, H.R. 3524, increases funding and offers improvements to ensure the most effective use of funds. “In my hometown of Baltimore, we have six HOPE VI projects, including two within four blocks of my house,” Congressman Cummings said. “I can tell you first-hand that these housing projects truly do offer the hope of a wonderful life to hardworking families.” The reauthorization includes the following provisions recommended by Congressman Cummings to address potential weaknesses in the program: Redefining the scope of the requirement that all public housing units proposed for demolition be replaced on a one-for-one basis to include all units that have been demolished since January 1, 2005. More than 30,000 public housing units have been lost as a direct result of HOPE VI grants made under previous rules that do not require one-for-one replacement. Enhancing tenant involvement in the HOPE VI process by granting a tenant the authority to seek a voucher extension or wait for the next available unit. Under the current program, this decision is determined by the PHA. Providing PHAs in limited low-poverty areas the flexibility to take advantage of opportunities in the housing market and meet local housing needs by allowing them the option to build mixed income housing up to 25 miles outside of the original site. Current language requires mixed income housing to be constructed in low-poverty areas, which is difficult in many urban areas with highly concentrated areas of poverty. “HOPE VI projects offer members of our community the opportunity to work toward achieving the American Dream in a safe environment and promote a sense of community that is critical to growth and empowerment,” Congressman Cummings said. “The improvements made under this legislation will enrich the lives of even more Maryland families.” ###
01.15.2008	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement regarding today’s Committee hearing on Senator George Mitchell’s report on the use of steroids in Major League Baseball (MLB): “Following the release of Senator Mitchell’s report, we found ourselves at a critical point calling for immediate, decisive action. We have learned very significant things from the Mitchell Report, and we must now use it as a tool to move forward, rather than reach back. We have entered the home stretch. “Both MLB and the Players’ Union have made great strides toward moving away from what can sadly be referred to as “The Steroids Era” of baseball. I look forward to the continuing efforts of both parties to saving the integrity of America’s favorite pastime—and, more importantly, to saving the lives of the young athletes who aspire to one day join them. “This is not about a witch hunt, and it is critical that we shift the attitude from one of ‘Who will be caught next?’ to the more essential ‘How can we move forward from here to protect our children?’ It is vital that we engage all parties involved in this—from MLB to the individual players—to become part of the solution. Unfortunately, this will be a futile effort as long as professional athletes feel that they are being victimized. In this vein, I encourage Commissioner Selig to implement Senator Mitchell’s recommendation to forego disciplining former steroid users. “It is my hope that Mr. Donald Fehr’s statement that players should take a role in preventing young people from using steroids will resonate beyond baseball to every professional athlete in every sport. I further hope that every owner of every professional sports team will follow the example of Orioles owner Peter Angelos, who has agreed to partner with Powered by ME!—a unique Baltimore program comprised of professional athletes, coaches, and medical professionals committed to educating student athletes and their parents about the dangers of steroid use. It is only by working together and staying focused on the goal of protecting our children that we will be able to turn this page on baseball history.” ###
01.11.2008	Washington, D.C. — I startwidainctext n a meeting with staff from the Maryland congressional delegation, U.S. Army representatives today reiterated the Army's commitment to the successful implementation of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) recommendation to close Fort Monmouth in Monmouth County, New Jersey, and create a C4ISR Center of Excellence at Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) in Harford County, Maryland. Army representatives briefed staff members on the Army's recent report to Congress on their implementation efforts. This is the Army's second meeting with Team Maryland to express their commitment to APG; Army representatives met with Team Maryland staff in August last year. Army Materiel Command has developed a step-by-step timeline for moving assets into Maryland and a detailed funding plan to support these moves while ensuring no disruption in support for the warfighter. Maryland's federal delegation, working closely with state and local officials as Team Maryland, stands ready to provide whatever support the Army requires to ensure that this transition is completed successfully and on-time. "The objective of the Army is to further enhance the evolution of its net-centric warfare capabilities by combining these missions at Aberdeen," said Keith E. Eastin, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations and Environment. "The Army is committed to this realignment while ensuring continued seamless support to the warfighter during these challenging times." "This report tells us what we already know: the Army and the Department of Defense (DoD) have a detailed and comprehensive plan to ensure the successful implementation of the BRAC recommendation that creates a new Joint Center of Excellence at APG," said Senator Mikulski, chair of the Maryland delegation. "As a member of Team Maryland, I am committed to providing the Army and DoD whatever support and resources are required to provide the warfighter with the tools and equipment they need to fight and win on the battlefields of today - and tomorrow." "I have full confidence in the recommendations of the BRAC Commission and the Army, which have both stated that moving the Communications Electronics Command from Fort Monmouth to Aberdeen Proving Ground will enhance our country's military readiness and ability to effectively counter threats around the globe," said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin. "The Army reports unequivocally that it can accomplish this move without disrupting support to our troops and I stand ready, along with the full Maryland delegation, to do whatever it takes to make the move a success." "This report reaffirms what the independent 2005 BRAC Commission already determined - that Maryland's Aberdeen Proving Ground is the best strategic location to house these operations," stated Congressman Steny Hoyer. "Moving forward, our focus continues to be on making this transition as smooth and efficient as possible in order to serve current residents and accommodate the thousands of new jobs and families we will be welcoming to our State." "I have never doubted the decision of the BRAC Commission when it comes to achieving the important goals of maximizing military value and creating synergy and efficiency within the Department of Defense. Today's Army briefing further confirms that the Fort Monmouth move is a good move, both for the State of Maryland and for the brave men and women in the military who are protecting our nation," said Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. "The State continues to do an outstanding job in its preparations for this decision, and we must continue moving forward from this point to ensure that the transition is carried out in a manner that is beneficial to all parties involved." "We must move forward and officials in Harford County and surrounding counties need to be reassured that this move is going to happen and we better be prepared for it," said Congressman Wayne T. Gilchrest. "I appreciate the Army's commitment to the BRAC process and we stand ready to assist in whatever way we can to make that transition as smooth as possible." "The 2005 BRAC recommendations are intended to make our military operations more efficient and effective," said Congressman Albert Wynn. "Not only will the 2005 BRAC realignment streamline our military services, and allow them to be better prepared to protect our country's interests, the realignment will save the taxpayer money, and increase jobs and economic opportunity for Marylanders and Maryland businesses. I applaud the outcome of the 2005 realignment and look forward to continuing the integration of these new workers and jobs into the Maryland community." "This latest Army briefing reconfirmed that continued vigorous oversight of the BRAC process will ensure the smoothest possible transition of the missions and jobs from Fort Monmouth to Aberdeen Proving Ground," said Congressman Roscoe Bartlett, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. "I have never doubted the decision of the BRAC Commission when it comes to achieving the important goals of maximizing military value and creating synergy and efficiency within the Department of Defense. Today's Army briefing further confirms that the Fort Monmouth move is a good move, both for the State of Maryland and for the brave men and women in the military who are protecting our nation," said Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. "The State continues to do an outstanding job in its preparations for this decision, and we must continue moving forward from this point to ensure that the transition is carried out in a manner that is beneficial to all parties involved." "The 2005 BRAC recommendations will bring both opportunities and challenges to our state, but will ultimately make both our military and our region stronger," said Congressman Chris Van Hollen. "Maryland stands at the ready for these new jobs and new residents. The whole purpose of BRAC is to consolidate functions to enhance efficiency and make sure the war fighter and intelligence workers have the latest in technology to do their jobs. This finding shows that the move to Aberdeen Proving Ground is in the best interest of the war fighter and intelligence worker as we continue to fight the global war on terror," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Chairman of the Technical and Tactical Intelligence Subcommittee. "This report again confirms the BRAC Commission's sound logic for this move and the Army's commitment to Aberdeen Proving Ground and Maryland," said Congressman John Sarbanes. "We continue to work diligently at the federal, state, and local levels to help the Army complete this transition, with a focus on maintaining the environmental integrity and quality of life of Maryland's communities." The 2005 BRAC recommendations will bring thousands of new employees to the state. This includes 10,000 new jobs that will never leave the country, in addition to 85,000 existing jobs on bases and up to 40,000 non-direct jobs. ###
01.09.2008	Baltimore, Md.—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation (CGMT), was joined today by the Honorable Donald C. Winter, U.S. Secretary of the Navy, as part of a guest lecture series initiated by the Congressman at the Maritime Industries Academy, a Baltimore public school. “This school has always boasted an amazing group of students with a great potential to excel at any opportunity presented to them,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is my honor to be here today with the Secretary of the U.S. Navy to show these young people just how far their dreams can lead them.” During his address, Dr. Winter highlighted the opportunities presented by a career in the U.S. Navy, ranging from a chance to travel the world to the character development resulting from the discipline and structure provided by the military. He stressed that regardless of students’ personal reasons for joining the Navy, every single future service member would find positive benefits. “If you decide that the Navy might be something that can make a positive difference in your lives, you will be joining an organization that is dedicated to developing the potential of its people,” Dr. Winter said. The Maritime Industries Academy was created in 2004 following the break up of Walbrook High School. Although it was given a maritime-themed name, it lacked the resources necessary to develop maritime programs and coursework. Since learning of the school during the summer of 2007, Congressman Cummings has used his capacity as Chairman of the CGMT Subcommittee to forge strong relationships between the Academy and professionals in the maritime industry. Today’s visit is part of a guest lecture series initiated by the Congressman that has allowed students the opportunity to interact with leaders in the maritime industry—ranging from Port of Baltimore officials to representatives from private companies—and to learn more about career opportunities in the maritime field. Additionally, the Congressman has played a pivotal role in leading the effort to develop a curriculum that is being adopted from a state maritime college for use at the high school level, and he has assisted the Academy in creating a spring internship program that is in its final stages of development. “While this school was once lacking in maritime-related programs, it has never been lacking in student initiative and motivation,” Congressman Cummings said. “I will continue my dedication to assist in creating an environment that allows the Maritime Industries Academy to live up to its name and allow these amazing students to truly flourish.” ###
12.27.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Statement on the Death of Benazir Bhutto Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in the aftermath of the assassination of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto: “Benazir Bhutto was an inspiration and a symbol of democratic hope and courage for a country in the midst of deep political strife. Her assassination this morning is a deep tragedy, and my thoughts and prayers go out to her family as well as the families of other victims in this morning’s attack. I am hopeful that her leadership and the achievements she was able to attain as a woman will continue to encourage and inspire people around the world. “This tragic event deals a serious blow to the political atmosphere within Pakistan, with elections just around the corner. It is my hope that despite this setback, the upcoming elections will be conducted fairly and legitimately. “It is critical that we ensure that the Pakistani government is receiving proper guidance on how to move forward from this point, particularly with regard to conserving the stable, democratically led government that is key to succeeding in the fight against terrorism. Additionally, I encourage the Bush Administration to conduct better oversight of our continued financial assistance to Pakistan during this tumultuous time to achieve the intended results of better education, health, and security systems for the country.” ###
12.20.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Holds Press Conference on Toxic Toys Congressman Calls on Mattel to Stop Using Lead, Discusses New Legislation to Protect Children Baltimore, Md.— Today, as parents head into the final weekend of holiday shopping, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, was joined by Baltimore City Health Department Assistant Commissioner Olivia Farrow and Ruth Ann Norton, Executive Director of the Coalition to End Childhood Lead Poisoning, for a press conference addressing increased concerns about high levels of lead in children’s toys. “More than twenty million dangerous imported toys managed to slip through the cracks and onto the shelves of our stores—and of our children’s bedrooms—before being recalled this year,” Congressman Cummings said. “With a figure that high, we are not talking about a few cracks, however. We are talking about a major chasm in our system that absolutely must be addressed by every party involved.” The press conference was prompted by a letter that Congressman Cummings sent to Robert Eckert, CEO and Board Chairman of Mattel, requesting that the company stop using lead in the production of its toys. Congressman Cummings became alarmed when Fisher Price, a subsidiary of Mattel, neglected to recall a toy medical kit despite findings of dangerously high levels of lead in a red blood pressure cuff contained in the kit. “We have long known the harm that lead has brought to generations of our children. Any failure to stem the tide of more poisonings is unacceptable,” said Ruth Ann Norton. “The message Congressman Cummings is sending is the right one—it is our duty to protect ALL children.” One way Congressman Cummings is addressing the problem is through federal legislation. Yesterday, the House passed H.R. 4040, a bill co-sponsored by the Congressman, which strengthens regulations of lead in toys and expands the authority of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). The bill creates the toughest lead standard in the world for children’s products and bans the importation of children’s products that have not been tested and do not conform to U.S. standards. “While we have taken action against lead in children’s jewelry on a local level here in Baltimore, we support a strong federal standard that protects children everywhere,” said Olivia Farrow. “Even one child poisoned is one child too many.” H.R. 4040 strengthens the ability of the CPSC to notify consumers about dangerous products more quickly and more widely. It also provides much-needed supplemental funding to the Commission, which has seen drastic budget cuts in recent years. The CPSC has only 85 percent of the employees it had in 2004 and only half of the employees it had thirty years ago. Currently, only fifteen inspectors are policing the hundreds of points of entry for imported toys; 80 percent of all toys in the U.S. are imported from China. “At this point, there is no single action that can be taken to ensure that this holiday season brings our children joy instead of tragedy,” Congressman Cummings said. “However, we will continue to work together at all levels to do everything within our power to make sure that we do not see another year defined by toxic toys.” ### Remarks of Congressman Elijah E. Cummings Press Conference on Toxic Toys December 20, 2007 Thank you, Corey (Bowden, Jr.), for that very impressive introduction. I thank Corey’s teacher, Ms. Doreen Omisore, as well, for allowing her class to join us this morning. I also thank Ms. Gayle Headen, the Director of this amazing Head Start Center. You need only talk to Ms. Headen for a brief moment to feel her passion for these children. I understand that one of the reasons she is so dedicated to her students and realizes the profound impact Head Start has on a child’s life is because she was once a Head Start student at this very center. Ladies and gentlemen, like all of the children here today, Corey’s smile, and the glimmer of hope for the future in his eyes, are what bring us all together. I was honored to speak to this young man just before we started, and I’ve got to tell you, he has the potential to be somebody great. A future of endless opportunities is before him—lawyer, teacher, firefighter, doctor—his dreams are the limit. That is why I was so disturbed last week when I heard about a toy medical kit containing a blood pressure cuff—this blood pressure cuff right here in my hand—with enough accessible surface lead that it could potentially put this future doctor’s health at risk. Here is a toy encouraging a child to play doctor while at the same time potentially sending that child to the doctor him or herself. Even more disturbing, though, was finding out that this medical kit is manufactured by Fisher Price. These are not just random toys being picked up at the dime store; they are being produced by popular, long-established companies—like Fisher Price—whose names parents trust. When Fisher Price was notified of the high lead content in this toy—in levels at nearly 500 percent of the federal standard for paint—the company did nothing. In fact, it was not until Fisher Price was notified that the toy was in violation of Illinois state lead regulations that it took any action at all—it pulled the toy off the shelves in Illinois and continues to sell it everywhere else. Yesterday, I sent a letter to Robert Eckert, the CEO of Mattel—of which Fisher Price is a subsidiary—encouraging him to stop using lead entirely in all of the toys produced by his company. I sincerely hope that he takes my request to heart. Unfortunately, while this scenario with the medical kit is shocking, it is by no means an exceptional case. In fact, earlier this month the Associated Press reported a very alarming study. In more than 1,200 toys purchased from major retail stores, 35 percent contained lead—many with levels far above the federal recall standard used for paint. Only 20 percent of the toys tested had no trace of lead or harmful chemicals. These numbers are unacceptable and frightening. We simply cannot afford to allow this to continue, jeopardizing our most valuable resource: our children. 2007 has undoubtedly been the Year of the Toy Recall. Twenty million imported toys were recalled this year, some of them containing nearly 200 times the legal limit for lead. It seemed like every day this summer we heard another report of a toxic toy imported from overseas—Thomas the Tank Engine cars with toxic levels of lead in the paint, Aqua Dots containing the ‘date rape drug’ GHB in levels so high that several children went into comas, Hannah Montana card cases, Spongebob Squarepants journals—the list of atrocities lining the shelves of our toy stores—and of our children’s bedrooms—is seemingly endless. Many people are wondering how these products managed to slip through the cracks and into the stores…because with twenty MILLION toys, we are not just talking about some cracks—we are talking about a pretty enormous chasm in our system. Perhaps one of the largest cracks comes from the Consumer Product Safety Commission, whose name alone suggests protection against hazardous products. Under the current administration, the CPSC’s oversight of safety can best be described as lax. Only fifteen inspectors are policing the hundreds of points of entry for our imported toys—and I might add that EIGHTY PERCENT of toys in the U.S. are imported from China. The CPSC has only 85 percent of the employees it had in 2004, and only HALF of the employees it had thirty years ago. There is currently one man—ONE MAN—testing all of our nation’s toys to make sure they are safe for our children, and he is about to retire. And yet, even in the face of everything I have just told you, CPSC Chairwoman Nancy Nord has voiced OPPOSITION to increased funding or authority. Well, I have to tell you something, if the CPSC is not going to step up and do its job—if Ms. Nord is not going to fight for the funding and authority to help this agency live up to its name—we are going to do it for them. I am joined today by Ms. Olivia Farrow, the Assistant Commissioner of Environmental Health at the Baltimore City Health Department, who is actively testing children’s products in Baltimore for lead. I am also joined by Ms. Ruth Ann Norton, the Executive Director of the Coalition to End Childhood Lead Poisoning, an organization that has been instrumental in keeping lead out of our children’s lives. Just yesterday I joined my colleagues in passing H.R. 4040, which creates the toughest lead standard in the WORLD for children’s products. It bans the importation of children’s products that have not been tested and do not conform to U.S. standards—meaning no more toys containing the date rape drug. It strengthens the CPSC’s ability to notify consumers about dangerous products more quickly and more widely. And, although Ms. Nord has said she is okay with the continually slashed funding of the agency, we will be stuffing the CPSC’s stocking with much-needed supplemental funding this holiday season. While there is no single solution to ensure that this Christmas period will be one of celebration and not one of tragedy due to unsafe toys, we must all come together to do what we can. We must ensure that 2008 is the Year of the Safe Consumerism.
12.19.2007	Baltimore, Md.—Following the admission of steroid use by Baltimore Orioles second baseman Brian Roberts, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), Co-Founder and Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Drug Policy and a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter requesting that Mr. Roberts partner with him in Powered by ME!, an awareness campaign aimed at teaching youth about the dangers of anabolic steroids and performance-enhancing substances (text of the letter below). “While we are all guilty of making mistakes, what distinguishes a hero is the acknowledgment of those mistakes and the commitment to learn from them,” Congressman Cummings said. “The courage and integrity demonstrated by Brian Roberts in his admission to his past steroid use speaks volumes about his character, and I am hopeful that he will use the lesson from this mistake to prevent his young fans from making a similar error that could put their health at serious risk.” According to a national survey sponsored by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 1 in 16 high school students reported ever using illegal steroids in 2003, a nearly three-fold increase from 1 in 45 who reported steroid use in 1993. Experts have estimated that more than 500,000 high school students in the U.S. have used steroids. Anabolic steroids pose special medical risks to youth; by interrupting normal hormone levels, the drugs can send a signal to the bones to stop growing, stunting growth and leading to serious psychiatric disorders. Steroid use among teenagers is also associated with a range of potentially dangerous behaviors, including risky sexual activities, carrying a weapon, and driving under the influence of alcohol. “The ripple effect caused by steroid abuse in professional sports extends far beyond the individual user and questions of fairness in the game,” Congressman Cummings said. “When the issue of steroid abuse is kept quiet, it is our young people—trying to emulate these professional athletes—who suffer. Brian Roberts has a great opportunity to put an end to the perpetuation of the myth in baseball that steroids are not only acceptable, but also safe, and it is my hope that he will join me in this effort.” Powered by ME! is a unique campaign in the Baltimore area developed by St. Joseph Medical Center in conjunction with Congressman Cummings with a number of partners and volunteer experts—including athletes, coaches, and medical professionals—focused on educating middle and high school students, parents, coaches, and teachers about the serious side effects, dangers, and alternatives to anabolic steroids and supplements. The text of the letter: Dear Mr. Roberts: In light of your recent acknowledgement that you used steroids in the past, I believe you are in a unique position to send a strong message out to our young people that they should refrain from using performance enhancing substances. As such, I would like to partner with you to seize this opportunity. Specifically, I want you to be aware of a unique campaign in our area that has the potential to serve as a national model. In conjunction with St. Joseph Medical Center, I have been involved with the development of Powered By ME!™—an awareness campaign aimed at teaching youth about the dangers of anabolic steroids and performance enhancing supplements. The campaign’s goal is to educate Maryland middle and high school students, parents, coaches and teachers about the side effects, dangers and alternatives to anabolic steroids and supplements. We have partnered with Orthopaedic Associates, Towson Sports Medicine, Sheppard Pratt Health System, The Center for Eating Disorders at Sheppard Pratt, and St. Agnes HealthCare to achieve this goal. In addition, a blue ribbon panel of volunteer experts who represent coaches, teachers, parents, athletes and medical professionals has been established to support the public service campaign. I believe that you are in a powerful position to effect change because young people continue to look up to you and want to emulate you as well. I understand that you are already active in the community. Your participation in the Powered By ME!™ campaign, and other efforts like it, would be an extension of your current commitment to community service and would result in positive outcomes for all parties involved. I look forward to hearing from you on this matter at your earliest convenience. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress ###
12.18.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman Cummings Applauds Fed for Plan to Protect Homeowners Encourages Bernanke to Assist Those Already in Trouble Washington, DC—Following this morning’s announcement by the Federal Reserve Board of a plan to protect homeowners from predatory lending practices, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, applauded Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke for taking new steps in addressing the subprime mortgage crisis and encouraged him not to neglect those who have already been victimized. “This is a very good plan, taking many of the common sense steps that are necessary to protect new families from falling prey to abusive lending practices and helping to prevent the mess within the subprime industry from continuing to drag down our economy,” Congressman Cummings said. “However, we must be sure to approach this beast from all necessary angles—which means not turning our backs on the nightmare being faced by the millions of hardworking families already in danger of losing their homes as the result of past predatory lending.” The Fed’s proposal will use its authority under the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act of 1994 (HOEPA) to enact several safeguards to protect the riskiest borrowers. These safeguards include the following measures recommended by Congressman Cummings in a letter sent to the Federal Reserve Chairman on May 15th: Requiring lenders to establish a borrower’s ability to make payments over the life of a loan prior to making a mortgage loan Restricting the use of low- and no-documentation loans Reducing or eliminating initial fees and prepayment penalties Designating the failure to escrow taxes and insurance as an unfair and deceptive practice Additionally, the plan includes a provision from a resolution introduced by Congressman Cummings that was passed in the House this summer, prohibiting payments to brokers without certain disclosures being provided to borrowers in a timely fashion (H.Res.526). “The effects of the subprime mortgage crisis are rippling throughout our entire economy—most recently visible in the release of figures showing the construction of new homes to be at its lowest level in 16 years,” Congressman Cummings said. “People are losing not only their jobs and their homes, but their hopes and dreams as well. We must continue working together at all levels of government to save American families and as well as our economy.” ###
12.18.2007	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) joined his colleagues in passing the final version of the Energy Independence and Security Act (H.R. 6) to increase our energy independence, respond to global warming, and grow our economy. The bill has already passed in the Senate, and the President is expected to sign it into law. “After years of obstruction from the GOP-led Congress on energy efficiency, we will finally be able to send the White House legislation to address serious energy concerns—saving money for American families rather than the big oil companies,” Congressman Cummings said. “This bill makes historic investments in our future at a critical moment.” The bill, which passed by a vote of 314-100, strengthens national security by decreasing U.S. dependence on foreign oil and slashing U.S. oil consumption by more than 4 million barrels per day—more than twice our daily imports from the Persian Gulf. It implements the first congressional increase in fuel efficiency standards in more than three decades, which will have the equivalent effect of taking nearly 30 million vehicles off the roads and save American families $700 to $1,000 annually at the gas pump. Additionally, the legislation cuts greenhouse emissions by 24 percent of what experts say is needed to save the planet, reducing emissions through increases in the efficiency of buildings, homes, appliances, and lighting. Its landmark commitment to American homegrown renewable energy and the expansion of American-grown biofuels will create hundreds of thousands of new jobs. “The Energy Independence Act sends an important message to our children and the rest of the world that we will not continue to turn a blind eye to the environmental and security consequences of the poor energy policies that have been implemented in recent years,” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation is a win-win for American families, who will realize its benefits through savings at the pump, the creation of new jobs, and the reduction of global warming.” ###
12.13.2007	Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and the Co-Founder and Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Drug Policy, released the following statement regarding the release of the Mitchell report highlighting an investigation into the use of performance-enhancing drugs in professional baseball. The report, which was released this afternoon, concludes that the use of performance-enhancing drugs and human growth hormone are widespread in Major League Baseball (MLB). It also makes recommendations to improve the MLB drug-testing program. “Baseball, the great American pastime, has historically embodied our nation’s hopes, dreams, values, and ideals. We cannot afford to sit on the sidelines while some players destroy the integrity of this sport by engaging in the culture of cheating fostered by the use of performance-enhancing drugs—breaking both the law and the public’s trust. “It is my hope that Major League Baseball will approach the findings of the Mitchell Report with the seriousness that is warranted, and I urge the baseball players and players’ union to cooperate with MLB management to implement the recommendations set forward in this report. Furthermore, it is my hope that all of the players who have received awards for performances that were enhanced by the use of drugs will immediately return the awards to MLB. The first step in restoring the reputation of baseball is taking all necessary actions to show players and fans that cheating will no longer be tolerated. “The most devastating impact of steroid abuse has been on our nation’s most valuable resource: our children. Young athletes, emulating their professional role models with the use of performance-enhancing drugs, have paid for this poor judgment with their lives. Our children are the living messages we send to a future we will never see, and we need to ensure that they make it to that future. “I am hopeful that MLB will implement all of the recommendations in the report as well as initiate its own investigation on amphetamine use. I will be closely monitoring the response to the Mitchell report, and I am prepared to proceed with a legislative response or recommend future oversight hearings if necessary. We must ensure that when our children trade baseball cards of their heroes, they are trading players who embody the characteristics inherent in good role models rather than trading players who succeed by cheating.” ###
12.13.2007	Washington, DC— Following a meeting with Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Congressman John Sarbanes (Md.-03), and CSX Corporation to discuss recent train derailments in Baltimore City and possible measures to improve the safety of the shipment of hazardous materials, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, released the following statement: “The derailments of trains carrying hazardous materials through Baltimore in recent weeks have underscored the need to take every necessary precaution to ensure the safety of our community—including putting in place the most effective and efficient mechanisms for response and prevention. “The meeting yesterday between members of the Maryland Congressional Delegation and CSX provided us the opportunity to renew a relationship focused on achieving the important goal of finding the balance between the necessity of transporting hazardous materials and the obligation to guard the safety of the men, women, and children of Maryland. This was a positive discussion, and CSX has agreed to work closely with us as we continue to explore all options in striking this balance. “CSX has committed to enrolling the State of Maryland in a pilot program through which the State can obtain virtually real-time information on the cargo being carried by trains throughout Maryland. During our meeting yesterday, CSX suggested that enrollment could even be completed by the end of the year. This is welcome news, and my colleagues and I will be watching closely to see that this commitment is kept. “At the same time, it is imperative to ensure that the arrangements in place between CSX and the State include the flow of data directly to the City so that the first responders arriving at the scene of any train incident know the extent of the situation with which they are dealing. The difference in time between the City’s immediate preparedness and the amount of time it takes to obtain this information from the State or CSX could be the difference between the life and death of our families. “I look forward to continuing discussions with CSX to guarantee that all of its tracks are structurally sound, that all of its trains are operating at the safest capacity, and that every possible precaution is taken to prevent and adequately respond to any potential derailments. I am hopeful that CSX will demonstrate their commitment to safety by immediately taking action to achieve these goals.” ###
12.12.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Introduces Resolution Honoring UMD School of Medicine Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) introduced a resolution to congratulate the 200th Anniversary of the University of Maryland School of Medicine and recognize its outstanding achievements both in the medical community and the community at large. “Through its excellence in education, research, patient care, and services, the UMD Medical School has been good for our health—our physical health, the health of our medical profession, the health of our community livelihood, and the health of our state’s economy,” Congressman Cummings said. “For 200 years, the Medical School has been a pillar upon which our community rests, and it is my honor to introduce a resolution to honor its achievements.” The University of Maryland School of Medicine was the first public school of medicine established in the United States. As one of the country’s fastest-growing research institutions, it ranks in the top twenty for research grants awarded to medical schools nationwide—receiving more than $344 million in research awards last year alone. In the last fiscal year, the School of Medicine generated $676.3 million in revenue, and the spending for the school and its faculty practice plan last year amounted to $1.5 billion, or about five percent of the total state economy. In addition to its outstanding work in research and medicine, the school also boasts 250,000 hours of community service contributed by faculty and staff annually. “There is no arguing that the School of Medicine brings a vitality to our City and our State through its contributions to the economy, the community, and the healthcare system overall,” Congressman Cummings said. “While those of us in the City of Baltimore and the State of Maryland recognize its importance to our community, the resolution that I introduced today will raise that recognition to the higher level that is deserved.” ###
12.12.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman Cummings Urges Colleagues to Support Our Troops NDAA will restore military readiness, provide for service members Washington, DC— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, urged his colleagues to support the FY 2008 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), H.R. 1585, scheduled for a vote tonight. “Although we may be divided on the war in Iraq, we must be united in our effort to ensure that every single member of the armed forces has the equipment necessary to succeed in battle and the first-rate and uncompromised benefits they deserve upon returning home,” Congressman Cummings said. “The National Defense Authorization sets the course to achieve this goal in a fiscally responsible manner that has been absent in recent years.” The bill includes the Wounded Warrior Act, which responds to the problems and deficits in care raised by the Walter Reed Army Medical Center scandal through such measures as the establishment of an oversight board to conduct annual evaluations of the quality and integrity of medical care provided to our veterans. This includes an amendment authored by Congressman Cummings giving the Secretary of Veterans Affairs the power to appoint two members to this oversight board to ensure that veterans have a voice. Also included in the bill is an amendment from Congressman Cummings requiring Defense Secretary Robert Gates, General David Petraeus, and Ambassador Ryan Crocker to provide reports to Congress about the status of the war, as well as additional recommendations from Congressman Cummings regarding the Iraq war. These include addressing the need for proper oversight in the reconstruction effort, ending no-bid contracts, and distributing oil revenues to the Iraqi people. “The men and women who are risking their lives for us should not be given first-class weapons in battle only to receive third-class benefits when it comes to their health,” Congressman Cummings said. “The NDAA is critical in easing the strain that has been put on our troops and restoring our military readiness. I am hopeful that my colleagues will join me in supporting our troops by passing this bill and that the President will quickly sign it into law.” Other key highlights of the bill include: Restoring our nation’s military readiness through the creation of a Strategic Readiness Fund to address equipment shortfalls Supporting our troops and their families through a military pay raise exceeding what President Bush requested and prohibiting fee increases in TRICARE Improving accountability and eliminating waste, fraud, and abuse in contracting, including the requirement of new steps to manage and oversee contracts in Afghanistan and Iraq Addressing the increasing prevalence of mental health disorders such as Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder by requiring the Defense Department to develop a prevention plan ###
12.12.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: BRAC Is About More Than Costs and Savings Washington, DC— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Readiness, released the following statement in response to the Subcommittee’s hearing today regarding the implementation of the 2005 Department of Defense Base Re-alignment and Closure (BRAC) decision: “Today’s Military Readiness Subcommittee hearing was important because it offered the opportunity to fully examine the BRAC process and ensure that the implementation of the 2005 BRAC decision—including the move of Fort Monmouth to Aberdeen Proving Ground—is being carried out in the most effective and efficient manner. It also offered an important opportunity for all parties involved to share their concerns or reassurances about the base closures and realignments resulting from this important decision. “There is no doubt that Maryland will benefit tremendously from the decision to move Fort Monmouth to Aberdeen Proving Ground. This move will bring us tens of thousands of new jobs and increase revenue for our local businesses. Furthermore, the evidence has shown that the cost savings of this realignment will ultimately outweigh the expenses. “What is more important, however—and what was strikingly clear in today’s hearing—is that this decision is about far more than costs and savings. This is about providing the foundation to create an environment that is conducive to maximizing military value and creating synergy and efficiency within the Department of Defense, two tasks that are critical for us to adequately support our troops on the ground and protect our nation. “I have never doubted the decision of the BRAC Commission when it comes to achieving these important goals. Following the testimony of DOD Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Installations and Environment Philip Grone reaffirming that the Fort Monmouth move is essential to this end, I am further assured that the 2005 BRAC decision was—and continues to be—the right decision. “From the beginning, I have believed in the ability of our state and its leaders to adequately sustain the move from Fort Monmouth. Lt. Governor Brown substantiated those beliefs today through his testimony about the State’s BRAC Action Plan to accommodate the population increase resulting from the BRAC decision through fortifying our education and transportation systems and infrastructure and streamlining occupational licensing requirements.” ###
12.11.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Joins Coast Guard Chief of Staff, Police Department, BSAS for Press Conference on Illicit Drugs Baltimore, Md.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation and Co-Founder and Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Drug Policy, was joined by Vice Admiral Robert J. Papp, Chief of Staff of the United States Coast Guard, Baltimore City Police Department Deputy Commissioner Anthony Barksdale, and Baltimore City Substance Abuse Systems Public Affairs Officer Hirsh Goldberg for a press conference to commend the Coast Guard for a record-breaking year of cocaine interdiction. This year, the Coast Guard has seized or removed more than 356,000 pounds of cocaine at sea, which has been credited with a decrease in the supply and purity of cocaine in more than 35 cities throughout the U.S., including Baltimore. Congressman Cummings has long been a leader in the fight to end illicit drug use in Baltimore, and supply reduction—along with treatment, prevention, and law enforcement—is one of the key elements in his strategy to achieve this goal. Remarks of Congressman Cummings at the press conference: Statement of Congressman Elijah E. Cummings Regarding the Coast Guard’s Record Drug Seizures in 2007 December 11, 2007 ______________ As the Representative of Maryland’s 7th Congressional District, as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, and as Co-Founder and Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Drug Policy, it is an honor and a privilege to commend the Coast Guard – represented in the person of Vice Admiral Robert Papp, Chief of Staff of the United States Coast Guard – for making 2007 a record year for cocaine interdictions. This year, the Coast Guard has removed 355,755 pounds of cocaine with an estimated street value of more than $4.7 billion from circulation – either by directly seizing the drugs or by causing those who were attempting to smuggle the drugs to the United States to destroy them before the Coast Guard could seize them. This impressive record has included several seizures that were truly staggering in their size. For example, on March 18, the Coast Guard cutters SHERMAN and HAMILTON seized nearly 43,000 pounds – or some two tons – of cocaine from a Panamanian flagged vessel off the coast of Panama. More importantly, however, this record is a stunning testament to the effectiveness of the 41,000 men and women of the Coast Guard who patrol our nation’s shores and who gather and process intelligence from around the world every single day of the year. I commend these dedicated individuals for their service to our nation. Though our fellow citizens may not often see the Coast Guard at work along America’s 95,000 miles of coastline, be sure that the effects of the service’s essential work ripple down even to our local neighborhoods in Baltimore. Put simply, every ounce of cocaine seized at sea is an ounce that cannot reach our nation’s – or our City’s – streets. Sadly, of course, every ounce that does reach our community threatens to destroy a life. It is estimated that 60,000 of Baltimore’s 650,000 residents are currently drug dependent, mostly abusing heroin and cocaine. However, in 2006, The Washington Post reported that the number of drug-overdose deaths in Baltimore had fallen to the lowest level in 10 years. These drops have been made possible by on-going efforts at the federal level and at all levels of government to interdict drugs as well as by the enormous efforts undertaken by our City to make many types of drug treatment readily available to those who need it. Our City’s efforts are essential components of the continuum of interventions that must be in place to fight the scourge of drug addiction that threatens the success of our community. I am honored to commend the City of Baltimore – represented by Deputy Commissioner Anthony Barksdale, who is here from the Baltimore City Police Department, and by Hirsh Goldberg, Public Affairs Officer with the Baltimore Substance Abuse Systems – for its outstanding efforts to combat drug abuse. I’m sure that everyone here remembers the terrible lows we reached in 1996, when Baltimore had the highest rate of drug-related ER visits in the nation and when AIDS became the leading cause of death among Black men and the second-leading cause of death among Black women. In the past decade, our City has mounted a truly remarkable effort against the crisis that drugs have created in our community. Funding for drug treatment nearly tripled, from $18 million in 1996 to $53 million last year. As a result, the City’s drug treatment slots for the uninsured or under-insured residents rose 62 percent, from 5,136 to 8,295. In 2005 alone, 23,000 people received drug treatment in publicly supported clinics through approximately 28,000 “treatment episodes.” At the same time, the Baltimore City Police Department has increased cocaine seizures in 2007 by 38 percent over last year and has made 6,856 felony drug arrests this year. However, our fight against drugs is far from over. We have made progress – but much work remains ahead to keep drugs off our streets and to break the terrible cycle of addiction that threatens yet another generation. Be sure that winning this fight remains my highest priority – and I will continue to support all of the complementary efforts that are needed to rid our communities of this affliction. We cannot effectively eradicate this problem simply by locking away drug dealers and users or by only targeting supplies. Rather, we must tackle this issue from all fronts – including prevention, treatment, supply reduction, and law enforcement – in order to be successful. As Subcommittee Chairman, I will continue to support the Coast Guard’s essential efforts to keep drugs from ever reaching our shores. Like so many of the agencies of the federal government, the Coast Guard is undergoing profound changes and it has added significant new responsibilities for port and maritime security after the terrible events of 9/11. Our Subcommittee is committed to being a strong partner to help the Coast Guard, under the capable leadership of its Commandant, Admiral Thad Allen, make the transformations it needs to balance these critical missions – so that the service is fully prepared to defend us from all of the threats that approach us from the sea, including the continuing threat of illicit drugs. I will also continue to support expanded funding for treatment and to support efforts that facilitate the re-integration of ex-offenders into our community. Put simply, while we celebrate an important victory today, we must continue to fight the battle of illegal drugs from every angle. ###
12.07.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Krongard Resignation Washington, DC— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement in response to State Department Inspector General Howard “Cookie” Krongard’s announcement of resignation. Mr. Krongard has been at the center of controversy in recent months following Congressional investigations into allegations involving his motives in various aspects of his position. This controversy came to a head last month at a Committee hearing when Congressman Cummings produced evidence contradicting Mr. Krongard’s testimony about his brother A.B. “Buzzy” Krongard’s position on the Board of Blackwater USA, a private contracting company under investigation by the State Department. In response, Mr. Krongard recused himself from the investigation. “Although his tenure has been defined by a myriad of poor decisions, Inspector General Howard Krongard is finally demonstrating sound judgment through his decision to step down. “The allegations that have been raised against Mr. Krongard in recent months are very serious and have severely weakened the credibility and appearance of impartiality in the office assigned the critical task of preventing and detecting fraud and abuse within the State Department. With Mr. Krongard’s resignation, we can now begin the process of restoring credibility to the office of the Inspector General, in turn restoring the effectiveness and efficiency of the U.S. Department of State. “It is my hope that, in choosing a new appointee to fill this position, President Bush will look for a candidate who encompasses the essential qualities of impartiality and objectivity toward the institution he or she is entrusted to monitor. The President must move quickly in replacing Mr. Krongard with a highly qualified candidate who will immediately look into ongoing investigations of corruption and the wasteful spending of billions of taxpayer dollars that have been allegedly blocked and impeded during Mr. Krongard’s time in this position. This entails taking the appropriate actions to ensure that these investigations are being conducted in a manner consistent with proper protocol and that those who are guilty of violating the law be held to account for their actions. The new IG must also fully cooperate with the Department of Justice and other federal agencies in the investigations of wrongdoing by entities operating under the State Department.” ###
12.07.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Honors Those Who Sacrificed Their Lives at Pearl Harbor Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation and a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement in remembrance of Pearl Harbor: “Today, we again pause to remember that terrible moment when Americans at Pearl Harbor were attacked. In gratitude and respect, we stand together to honor the 2,400 human beings who died during those devastating hours 66 years ago, as well as those who were seriously wounded in the attack. “To all of the families who have bravely borne the scars of this sacrifice over the years, we pledge that this nation will never forget the heroes claimed by history on December 7, 1941. In humility, we acknowledge that no words can adequately express our gratitude for the legacy of freedom purchased with their suffering. “All across this great country, there are people who continue to bear memories of those devastating hours at Pearl Harbor, captured in aging photographs mounted with care on their walls. To them and their families, we offer the most eloquent words of respect that we know: “‘Thank you for our freedom. We who are blessed to live in America will never forget your sacrifice. Know also that we will defend and exercise forever the freedom for which so many have paid the ultimate price.’” ###
12.07.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Bus Beating in Baltimore Baltimore, Md.— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) released the following statement today following the assault of a 26-year-old woman, her male companion, a third passenger, and the bus operator who came to his assistance on a Maryland Transit Administration (MTA) city bus: “The physical assault of any human being, regardless of motivation, is conduct that is unacceptable. As police continue to investigate the circumstances surrounding this terrible crime, we must rise together as a community to take a stand against violence on any of our neighbors. “We must also use this incident to examine the safety of our public transit system. While the rate of crime occurring on or near MTA property is low, we must continue to work with transit authorities to strive toward making it even safer for our families to travel throughout the city—including exploring alternative methods for transporting children to and from school.” ###
12.07.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: Today’s Derailment Renews Safety Concerns Washington, DC— Today, following the announcement that a tank car moving as part of a CSX train derailed in Locust Point, Congressman Elijah E. Cumming (Md.-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, released the following statement: “Today’s derailment of a CSX tank car in Locust Point – coming on the heels of the derailment of 12 CSX cars near the M&T Bank Stadium in late November – renews my deep concern about the safety of rail operations in Baltimore. “While we are fortunate that today’s derailment did not involve any injuries or the release of a toxic material, next time we may not be so lucky. Many of the trains that move through our City do carry hazardous materials – and the pictures of this derailed car lying on its side near an office complex only underscore why I am so concerned about the very real risks that the rails bring to our doors everyday. “I look forward to the opportunity next week to join my colleagues in the Maryland Delegation in a meeting with CSX officials to reiterate the commonsense measures that we believe will help improve the safety of rail operations in Baltimore – including the suspension of hazardous materials shipments during major events in our City and the provision of real-time information on train contents to Baltimore’s first responders. We are also eager to learn the steps that CSX is taking to ensure that its rail operations are as safe as possible.” ###
12.06.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Calls on Bush to Assist All Who Are in Danger of Foreclosure Says plan is a good start but excludes too many families Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a member of the Joint Economic Committee released the following statement today in response to President Bush’s plan to freeze a small selection of subprime interest rates over a period of five years: “The subprime lending crisis and its subsequent effects on our overall economy is a very complex problem that requires some level of government intervention. There are 1.4 million families who lost their homes to foreclosure this year, and another 2 million families are at risk. In that its very conception acknowledges these facts, the President’s plan should be applauded. However, we must not mistake this for anything more than it is: not enough. “The President’s plan will help only one small group of the millions of families who are in danger of losing their homes, leaving the remaining 80 percent of people—many of whom are minorities—literally out in the cold. We need to enact a permanent solution that will help everyone who is struggling through this crisis—not just a five year plan assisting a select few. “To truly help all of the families in this bind, we need a plan that includes help for those unfortunate enough to have found themselves a month behind on their mortgages. We need to protect our neighbors from losing their homes due to the unforeseen doubling of payments caused by adjustable rate mortgages that are occurring right now—not just those whose ARMs reset next year. We need a clear definition of what constitutes an ability to continue making mortgage payments at higher rates. Will young families continue to be trapped making skyrocketing mortgage payments at the expense of paying off credit card bills or student loans because they are deemed able to afford the higher payments? The President’s plan does not seem to address these essential needs. “Furthermore, I am concerned that the vast majority of the President’s address to discuss his plan was nothing more than another grossly misleading speech taking a cheap shot at Congress. This unnecessary partisan pettiness is illustrative of the stubbornness and refusal to compromise that is preventing America from getting back on the right track. It upsets me greatly that President Bush would try to play politics with millions of hardworking families who are helplessly standing by watching their American dreams of homeownership crumble into nightmares. It is my hope that he will immediately revisit this issue to expand the assistance to all who are suffering, and I look forward to working with him when he does.” Congressman Cummings encourages any constituents struggling with mortgage problems to call the NeighborWorks Hopeline at 1-888-995-HOPE. ###
12.05.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Statement on Resolution Against Nooses Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in response to the House passing H.Res.826, recognizing the noose as a symbol of oppression, hate, and intimidation: “As a fifty-six-year-old African American man and the grandson of a former slave, I have learned through personal experience more about the devastating impact of racial hatred than anyone should ever learn. Racism is an evil that seeks to destroy the possibility that exists in every human being, and the placement of a noose—like the burning of a cross—is an act of hatred intended to threaten and intimidate. “Over 4,700 people were lynched in the United States between 1882 and 1959, the majority of whom were African American. In the past forty years, we have come miles as a nation and a society to reach the goal of equality for all people, regardless of race, gender, religion, sexual orientation, or any other characteristic. It is difficult to fathom how, in the 21st century, there can still exist such blind ignorance in attitudes toward race. “Yet, in recent months we have witnessed such ignorance in action as people, driven by intolerance and hatred, have placed nooses among the effects of African Americans. Despite all of the accomplishments of the African American community—and of our society as a whole—it takes just one action to remind us that racial tension and discrimination are not the distant memories that we may think. “In this time of integration and prosperity, some have regretfully forgotten the devastating pain and hatred that are tied in every noose and why it cannot be displayed in jest. Today’s resolution is the first step in responding to recent incidents with the determination and clarity that they deserve, and I applaud my colleagues for joining me in taking a stand against blatant acts of oppression, hate, and intimidation.” ###
12.03.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Bush Can and Must Do Better Washington, DC— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in response to President Bush’s remarks this morning at the White House Rose Garden: “I am deeply disappointed in President Bush’s remarks this morning, although I am—as usual—not surprised that he would try to mislead the American people by attempting to cast Congress as ineffective and failing to act on critical legislation. “The truth is, this Congress has passed more legislation than any other Congress in the same period of time, with a quality exceeding anything we have seen in years. From landmark investments in education to innovative energy policy to providing millions of underprivileged children with health insurance, the House of Representatives has continuously fought to bring America back on the right track, a path from which President Bush and the Republican Congress have recklessly deviated. “If President Bush were truly concerned about progress in America, about funding our government and troops, and about helping save American taxpayers from hardship, he would cooperate with Congress in lieu of vetoing Americans’ priorities and coming on national television to broadcast more of his unfounded rhetoric in an attempt to shift the blame for his refusal to act. “It is time to stop the deception and blame-shifting and start working together to protect our families. President Bush can, and in fact must, do better. Americans deserve more.” ###
12.02.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings: Winfield’s Pursuit of Excellence will be Missed Baltimore, Md.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md-07) released the following statement in response to the death of George Winfield, the director of Baltimore City’s public works department: “George Winfield, who graduated from Howard University a year before I did, fully encompassed what it means to be a true public servant. As the director of public works, he faced some of the City’s most difficult infrastructure problems head-on and effectively solved them using the people’s best interests as his guide. For three decades, Mr. Winfield consistently synchronized his high standards and constant pursuit of excellence with his conduct. “Although many of the vital tasks undertaken by Mr. Winfield were not always readily seen by the public, they were essential to the health and safety of every member of our community. His relentless service and dedication has improved the very essence of this great City, and he will truly be missed. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, and it is my hope that they will be offered some comfort in the knowledge that the character and work of this great man will have a lasting impact on us all.” ###
11.30.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on World AIDS Day Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in recognition of World AIDS Day on Saturday, December 1, 2007: “Since beginning my career of public service in 1983, I have been an outspoken advocate for addressing the devastation wrought by AIDS both here in the United States and around the world. During the past two decades, the climate surrounding this deadly disease has changed significantly. We have come miles with regard to understanding and treating this disease as well as with attitudes regarding its victims. However, our journey is nowhere near complete. “The world cannot hide from the reality of HIV and AIDS, and we must continue the movement to educate people on these diseases and to dispel the myths surrounding their contraction. While it is difficult to believe in this day and age that the AIDS epidemic could possibly still be fueled by homophobia, racism, and sexism, the reality is that such blind ignorance still exists. “More than 32 million people worldwide are suffering from AIDS this year—including 2.5 million people who were newly diagnosed. For these people, and their loved ones, every day is AIDS Day. It is for their struggle, as well as for the memory and honor of those who have already lost their lives, that we must renew our commitment tomorrow on World AIDS Day to battle this disease. “I am dedicated to continuing my fight against this epidemic by spreading awareness and allocating funds for its treatment and prevention. It is only by continuing to actively speak out about and act against AIDS that we will be able to find victory in our cause.” ###
11.29.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Maryland Legislators Urge CSX to Suspend Transportation of Hazardous Materials during Games Baltimore, Md.—Following an apparent stalemate in negotiations between the City of Baltimore and CSX Corporation, Senator Barbara Mikulski, Senator Benjamin Cardin, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), Congressman C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger (Md.-02), and Congressman John Sarbanes (Md.-03) sent a letter to CSX today encouraging the company to take additional measures in ensuring safety with the transportation of hazardous materials (text of the letter is attached). The letter comes in the wake of renewed safety concerns about the transportation of hazmats through Baltimore, particularly in such close proximity to M&T Bank Stadium. The stadium, expected to fill its capacity of 71,000 people for this weekend’s Army-Navy game, is only 35 feet from the rail line and is located near the site of the CSX train derailment that occurred last Saturday. Following news that President Bush may be in attendance at the game, CSX agreed to several previously denied requests for safety measures. While commending CSX for taking such efforts, Senators Mikulski and Cardin and Congressmen Cummings, Ruppersberger, and Sarbanes have requested that the company commit to suspending the shipment of hazardous materials during all major events at M&T Stadium as well as at Oriole Park at Camden Yard. Additionally, they have requested CSX to begin sharing real-time information directly with City officials regarding the transportation of hazmats. “It is simply unconscionable that a company would take any safety precautions for a Presidential visit the day after refusing to take precautions for tens of thousands of Marylanders,” Congressman Cummings said. “Having seventy thousand people gathered just thirty-five feet from toxic trains is like painting a giant bulls eye on our community. Maryland families should always be able to attend a football or baseball game without the fear of inhaling toxic chemicals—not just when the President is visiting. It is critical that CSX fulfill these simple, common sense requests that can easily be implemented without significantly affecting the flow of commerce.” The text of the letter: November 29, 2007 Mr. Michael J. Ward Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer CSX Corporation, Inc. 500 Water Street, 15th Floor Jacksonville, FL 32202 Dear Mr. Ward: We write today to urge CSX Corporation, Inc. (CSX) to take additional actions to improve the safety and security of its train operations through the City of Baltimore. We appreciate your willingness to implement some actions for the upcoming sporting events at the M&T Bank Stadium. However, we feel strongly that more needs to be done in both the short and long term to protect our constituents from the threat of future hazardous train accidents. For this weekend’s events, we urge CSX to suspend hazardous materials shipments through the City of Baltimore from 12:00 p.m., Friday, November 30, 2007, through 6:00 a.m., Saturday, December 1, 2007, during preparatory events that will lead up to the Army-Navy football game to be held at the M&T Bank Stadium. We further urge that all rail traffic be suspended from 6:00 a.m. through 10:00 p.m. on Saturday, December 1, 2007 during the Army-Navy football game. We also urge that hazardous materials shipments again be suspended from 12:00 p.m. through 1:00 a.m. on Monday, December 3, 2007, during the Baltimore Ravens’ home football game. We also believe that CSX should commit to suspending the shipment of hazardous materials – and particularly materials that are known to be toxic when inhaled by humans – during all major events at M&T Bank Stadium and at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. Finally, we also urge CSX to begin sharing information with officials of the City of Baltimore on hazardous materials shipped through the City – and particularly through the Howard Street Tunnel – on a real-time basis. As you know, on November 24, 2007, twelve cars of a CSX train derailed near the M&T Bank Stadium – including several cars carrying hazardous materials. Fortunately, this derailment did not result in the leak of any hazardous materials or any injuries. However, this derailment comes just six years after a tank car carrying tripropylene derailed on July 18, 2001, in the Howard Street Tunnel. This tank car was subsequently punctured, leading to the ignition of this flammable liquid and creating a fire fed by materials from other derailed cars. The fire in turn led to a major water main break. The total cost of responding to and cleaning up after this accident was approximately $12 million. These derailments demonstrate in stark terms the significant risks that the transportation of hazardous materials through Baltimore bring to all of the residents of the City and to those who may be attending events at facilities located near CSX rail operations. While the cause of the most recent derailment is still under investigation, this derailment also renews concern about the safety of CSX rail operations in and around the Howard Street Tunnel. The M&T Bank Stadium seats more than 70,000 people. The Army-Navy game is expected to attract a capacity crowd – as have all of the Ravens’ home football games during the 2007 football season. Given the risks associated with hazardous materials transportation and the obvious terror targets that the Army-Navy football game and the Baltimore Ravens’ Monday night football game present, we believe that the most prudent course of action at this time is for CSX to suspend rail traffic during the Army-Navy game and, at a minimum, to suspend hazardous materials shipments during the preparatory events preceding the Army-Navy game and during the Ravens’ game. Additionally, we believe that CSX should, at a minimum, commit to suspending hazardous materials shipments during all Ravens’ games played at M&T Bank Stadium and during all baseball games held at Oriole Park at Camden Yards – at least until a detailed plan to improve rail safety and security in Baltimore is concluded between CSX and City officials. We note that Oriole Park has capacity seating exceeding 48,000 and during the 2007 season, the Baltimore Orioles’ 80 home games were regularly attended by between 20,000 and 30,000 individuals. CSX should commit to providing real-time information on all hazardous materials shipments through the City of Baltimore and particularly through the Howard Street Tunnel. Such information would enable first responders in the City of Baltimore to put adequate preparations in place to respond effectively to any accident that may occur and specifically to any chemical spills. We are encouraged that CSX has announced that Baltimore is to be included in a pilot program through which such real-time data on hazardous materials shipments will be provided – but believe that initiation of the program should begin immediately and that information should flow directly to the City of Baltimore. We are confident that the common sense measures outlined in this letter will not unduly impede the flow of commerce – including hazardous materials – through the City of Baltimore, but will ensure that hazardous materials are not available during events that present obvious terror targets and that the City of Baltimore is fully prepared to respond to any future derailments involving hazardous materials that may occur in our City. Thank you for your immediate consideration of this matter. Sincerely, Barbara A. Mikulski United States Senator Benjamin L. Cardin United States Senator Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Member of Congress John Sarbanes Member of Congress ###
11.27.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman Cummings Honors His Time with Congresswoman Carson Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement today in response to Representative Julia Carson’s announcement that she is suffering from lung cancer and will not be seeking re-election: “For over a decade, Julia Carson has ardently fought to represent the interests of Indiana’s 7th Congressional District, and I am confident that she will use that same courage and determination as she begins this new battle against terminal lung cancer. My deepest prayers go out to my beloved friend and colleague and her loved ones. “As the first woman and the first African American to represent the City of Indianapolis, Congresswoman Carson has served as both an inspiration and a symbol of the progress of our nation’s journey toward civil rights for all. Her dedication to serving her constituents and our nation has been unrelenting, and her legacy will be remembered for years to come. “The time I have spent serving with Congresswoman Carson, including on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, has been marked by her compassion and selfless service, and I have been truly honored to work with this great leader. There is no doubt that in her decision to leave Congress she is also leaving behind a very large pair of shoes to fill.” ###
11.27.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Middle East Peace Summit Baltimore, Md.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md-07), released the following statement regarding today’s Middle East Peace Summit at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland: “Today is an historic day for Maryland, as our State offers the setting for what could bring the solution to decades of devastating conflict in the Middle East. The Peace Summit in Annapolis is symbolic of the hope and courage being exercised by Israelis and Palestinians. I commend all parties who have gathered today to offer their support to this very important cause. “When President Bush assumed the presidency, he introduced a ‘Road Map for Peace’ in the Middle East. Unfortunately, he neglected to assume the critical position of driving the region to the final destination on the map. In fact, he never even got into the car. This peace process has been stalled for seven long years, in part because the Bush Administration neglected to give it the high priority that was deserved. “It is encouraging that at this late hour the U.S. is taking the lead in bringing about a fair and lasting peace, a move that may help begin the restoration of the moral authority of our nation that has been greatly diminished in recent years. I hope that when a new President assumes office in 2009, the continuation of these efforts will begin on the first day, not the eleventh hour.” ###
11.20.2007	Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, announced the introduction of the Community and Healthcare-Associated Infections Reduction (CHAIR) Act of 2007, H.R. 4214, legislation to improve the prevention, detection and treatment of deadly infectious disease. “Those of us responsible for the public’s health have been spurred to action, developing a comprehensive response to ward off infections, while working to arm individuals with the best information available to keep themselves safe,” Congressman Cummings said. H.R. 4214 specifically addresses the growing concern surrounding the drug-resistant staph infection known as MRSA, or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), nearly 19,000 patients with invasive MRSA died in 2005—more than the number who died from HIV/AIDS, Parkinson's, emphysema or homicide. Eighty-five percent of those MRSA cases originated from hospitals. “I find it unconscionable that individuals are going into our hospitals for often routine procedures and acquiring painful, disfiguring, and sometimes fatal infections,” Congressman Cummings said. “Our health care systems must be held to account for addressing this critical issue.” H.R. 4214 not only addresses the threat of MRSA in hospitals, but also its prevalence in the community, which has become a growing concern. A recent study published by the Journal of American Medical Association found that Baltimore City in particular has unusually high rates of community-acquired infections. "We must do all in our power to identify what is causing the spread of community-acquired infections, and to determine how we can stymie this trend before it grows out of control," Congressman Cummings said. "The message must get out that our schools, gyms, and even the criminal justice system are all necessary partners in the effort to stamp out MRSA." The bill would implement the following reforms: • Develop best practices guidelines for hospital infection control plans through the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and CDC, and update current surveying of infection control plans to incorporate these best practices; • Require hospitals to report infection data to the CDC and make that data available to researchers, states, health care providers, and the public; • Require a feasibility study on the use of quality improvement payments to reward hospitals for reducing hospital-acquired infection rates; • Create a grant program through CDC for states to carry out public awareness campaigns; • Expand research into community and healthcare-associated infections at the National Institutes of Health (NIH); and • Create an interagency working group to coordinate federal efforts to reduce and prevent infections. “We have a national responsibility to redouble our efforts to combat the emergence of infections,” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation achieves this goal by using a solid, multi-faceted approach.” ###
11.15.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Calls on Security Administrator to Stop Downplaying Serious Security Breaches WashingtonIn response to testimony received today during the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform hearing on the effectiveness of airport security checkpoints, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the committee, called on the Department of Homeland Security’s Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to immediately attend to critical weaknesses in airport security., DC— “Next week, as Americans travel to spend Thanksgiving with their loved ones, they deserve the assurance that the hours spent standing in security lines will be effective in protecting them from becoming victims in terrorist attacks,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is unfathomable to me that TSA does not seem to comprehend the urgency in immediately addressing these serious security breaches.” This morning’s hearing was held in response to a 2006 report released by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) evaluating the effectiveness of security checkpoints in 21 airports. According to the report, undercover investigators in all instances were successful at smuggling liquid materials to make improvised explosive devices (IED) strong enough to blow up a plane through security checkpoints. In a recent follow-up investigation, the GAO was still able to pass through security with these materials. In response to questioning by Congressman Cummings, TSA Administrator Edmund “Kip” Hawley testified this morning that security checkpoints are only one small component of nineteen layers of security that he compared to a combination lock. “When a person is able to bypass one layer of security and embark a plane with the materials necessary to destroy the aircraft, all other layers of security become completely irrelevant,” Congressman Cummings said. “It makes no difference how complex a combination lock is when the lock is broken.” The GAO reports are just two in a series of tests and evaluations by Congress, government auditors, outside security experts, and TSA itself. These investigations have often concluded that checkpoints are performing below expectations. Congressman Cummings has called upon TSA to immediately address these substandard security measures. “It is absolutely critical that Administrator Hawley stop downplaying the importance of these reports,” Congressman Cummings said. “His low expectations offer the potential of extremely dangerous ramifications for the American people.” ###
11.15.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Statement in Support of Mortgage Reform Act Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement in support of the bipartisan Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act, H.R. 3915: “Every day, hardworking families are forced into homelessness due to predatory lending in the subprime mortgage industry—being robbed not only of their money, but also of their hopes and dreams. The Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act is another effort in a series of steps by the 110th Congress to turn our housing market and economy in a new direction. “This comprehensive, anti-predatory lending legislation will protect potential homeowners from abusive practices within the mortgage lending industry, restoring integrity and giving hardworking families the ability to seek redress. These common sense proposals aggressively address the subprime mortgage crisis that is hurting the American people and economy, helping people at risk of foreclosure to stay in their homes and increasing the supply of affordable housing across the country. “My home state of Maryland has seen first-hand the perilous effects of foreclosures that are rippling throughout the country. Fifteen thousand Maryland houses are expected to be foreclosed in 2007 and 2008, costing families their primary asset. In the past year, we dropped from ranking 40th in the nation with foreclosures to ranking 22nd. This is not a list on which we want to be number one, yet we seem to be on a steady course in that direction. I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 3915 and protect the American Dream of home ownership from continuing to become a nightmare.” ###
11.15.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Urges Colleagues to Override President’s Veto Labor-HHS Bill Provides Hundreds of Thousands to Maryland Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md-07) encouraged his colleagues in the House of Representatives to vote tonight in support of overriding President Bush’s veto of H.R. 3043, the FY 2008 Labor, Health, Human Services and Education Appropriations Bill (Labor-HHS) and support critical investments in education, health care, and vital scientific research. “Important domestic priorities of the American people were neglected far too long under the reckless and irresponsible policies of the Republican-led Congress,” Congressman Cummings said. “This bill offers the opportunity to put every Maryland child on the path to success by providing quality health care and education.” The bill, which was vetoed earlier this week by President Bush, increases the maximum Pell Grant, increases funding to No Child Left Behind, expands access to health care for more than 2 million uninsured Americans, and invests in life-saving medical research for the National Institutes of Health. In addition to investing in essential national programs, the bill also provides funding to the following projects in the 7th Congressional District requested by Congressman Cummings: $750,000 to the University of Maryland School of Nursing $425,000 to the LifeBridge Health Computerized Physician Order Entry Initiative $750,000 to the St. Agnes Hospital CARES Program for cardiac programs $500,000 to the Park Heights Redevelopment Workforce Development Initiative $300,000 to the Howard Community College Radiologic Technology Program $225,000 to the Coppin State University School of Nursing $450,000 to the International Center for Spinal Cord Injury at Kennedy Kreiger Institute “This bill makes critical investments in the future of Maryland and the country at large,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is imperative that we overturn the President’s veto and send a clear message that Congress will no longer rubber stamp the President’s misplaced priorities in Iraq while ignoring the health care and education of our children here at home.” ###
11.14.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Joins Colleagues in Expanding Head Start Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) joined a majority of his colleagues, in a vote of 381-36, to approve final passage of H.R. 1429, the Improving Head Start Act of 2007, authorizing nearly $23 billion to improve the Head Start program and expand access to tens of thousands of children. “The Head Start program is critical in closing the achievement gap by providing early education to underserved children and ensuring that these children arrive at Kindergarten ready to succeed,” Congressman Cummings said. “The Head Start re-authorization makes fundamental improvements to this already successful program to further guarantee that all Americans have the opportunity to thrive.” Head Start has been the premiere early childhood education program in the U.S. for more than 40 years and has served more than 20 million children and families. The re-authorization improves classroom quality, strengthens Head Start’s focus on school readiness, expands access to more children, and improves comprehensive services that help children by helping their families. Highlights of the bill include: Targeting new funding toward improving teacher salaries and supporting professional development. Increasing funding to help more programs operate full day and year-round. Ensuring increased participation of homeless children and enhancing opportunities for children with disabilities. Providing greater flexibility to serve children whose family income is just above the federal poverty line. “Head Start is a cornerstone of our communities, providing comprehensive education, health, nutrition, and parent-involvement services to low-income children and families who may otherwise not have it,” Congressman Cummings said. “Today is a great victory for our children.” ###
11.14.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Urges Colleagues to Support Bridge Act Bill would protect U.S. troops, require re-deployment Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today encouraged his colleagues to support H.R. 4156, the Orderly and Responsible Iraq Redeployment Appropriations Act (Bridge Act), to change the direction of President Bush’s failed policy in Iraq. A vote is expected on the bill this evening. “It is time for my colleagues in the House to stop rubber stamping the President’s poor policies with regard to this war while at the same time voting against funding health care for our nation’s children,” Congressman Cummings said. “American families have paid an average of over $46,000 each to fund this mismanaged war. This is unacceptable.” The Bridge Act requires the responsible redeployment of American troops within thirty days of enactment with a set goal of completion by December 15, 2008. Moreover, it provides these troops with the resources needed for continued protection from improvised explosive devices (IED) and car bombs, the leading causes of more than 3,800 U.S. combat deaths and tens of thousands of injuries. Additionally, the bill prohibits the deployment of U.S. troops who are not fully trained and equipped. “Our military is being stretched increasingly thin, resulting in the deployment of troops with insufficient training and equipment and putting their lives at risk,” Congressman Cummings said. “Our armed services are only as strong as their weakest links, and the Bridge Act makes critical repairs to our troop readiness to ensure these links are unbreakable.” The Bridge Act comes on the heels of a report released yesterday by the Joint Economic Committee, on which Congressman Cummings sits, revealing high hidden costs of $1.6 trillion for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan—a total that nearly doubles that requested directly by the Bush Administration. Additionally, the report forecasts an additional cost of $3.5 trillion if the course in Iraq is not changed. “This ten-year, trillion dollar war has already cost Americans too much in terms of lives, dollars, and our reputation around the world,” Congressman Cummings said. “The Bridge Act sends a very clear message to the White House from the American people: enough is enough.” ###
11.14.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Doubles HBCU Funding Defense Appropriations Bill Makes Landmark HBCU Investments Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, applauded President Bush for signing the FY08 Defense Appropriations Bill, H.R. 3222, which includes a landmark investment in Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions (HBCU/MI). The majority of this $37 million investment—more than doubling what HBCU/MI currently receives—comes at the behest of Congressman Cummings. “For too long, our minority institutions have been overlooked in the allocation of funds that will strengthen the critical fields of technology and defense,” Congressman Cummings said. “I promised to be unrelenting in my fight to secure these funds, and I am pleased to have played a role in advancing the futures of our minority students.” The money will be allocated to the Infrastructural Support Program for Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions, which is not indexed for inflation and has not seen an increase in its original $15 million funding in over a decade. Under this program, HBCU/MI students compete for grants and contracts through the Department of Defense (DOD). As the number of minority students eligible for these grants and contracts has continued to increase, the funds have spread increasingly thin. Congressman Cummings began fighting for the increased HBCU/MI funding following a meeting with officials from Morgan State University and the DOD to determine methods of improving minority contracting opportunities. The increase is expected to expand opportunities for minorities entering the fields of math, science, and engineering. “We must ensure that our next generation is adequately trained to protect our homeland and remain on the forefront of science and technological development,” Congressman Cummings said. “This funding is vital in helping us to achieve this important priority—and in ensuring that no American is left behind.” ###
11.11.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Veterans Day Washington, DC —Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement in honor of Veterans' Day: "Today is a day to honor all of the brave men and women who have risked their lives—the ultimate sacrifice—to protect our nation. This Veteran's Day, I encourage all Americans to reach out to veterans and thank them and their families for this sacrifice. While we may be divided on the war in Iraq, we must be united in seeing that every single member of the armed forces is welcomed back with all the compassion this grateful nation can bestow. "Veterans have kept their promise to serve our nation, and we must keep our promises to protect our veterans. With my support, the Democratic Congress this year has made great strides in providing a new direction for funding these promises. We have passed landmark legislation to care for our veterans, such as an increase in the VA budget by $6.7 billion—the largest single increase in veterans' funding in the 77-year history of the Department of Veterans Affairs. This proposed increase will strengthen veterans' health programs, including mental health care. It also increases the VA's maintenance and repair budget to prevent another Walter Reed scandal from occurring. "Our men and women should not get first-class weapons in battle only to receive third-class benefits when they return home from war. I will continue to demand that President Bush provide adequate funding for our warriors—not just for the war. We must ensure that our veterans receive benefits that are first-rate and uncompromised." ###
11.09.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Congressman Cummings Provides Tax Relief to Millions of Middle Class Families Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, joined a majority of his colleagues today in the House of Representatives to pass H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act. The bill, which will provide 23 million middle-class families with over $50 billion in tax relief without increasing the national debt, passed by a vote of 216-193. “For nearly a decade, President Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress have mortgaged our grandchildren’s futures in order to provide tax cuts and loopholes to the wealthiest Americans,” Congressman Cummings said. “Today, we took a stand to reverse these failed, unfair policies to provide real tax relief to millions of hardworking families.” The major component of the bill provides a patch that will protect 23 million families from being hit by the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). The AMT was created in 1969 to stop the wealthiest Americans from paying little to no income tax by exploiting tax loopholes. While it initially succeeded at this goal, impacting less than 1 percent of taxpayers in any year before 2000, it was not indexed for inflation like regular income tax—meaning that an increasing number of middle class families will face significantly higher taxes, despite their real incomes remaining the same. This year in the State of Maryland, 613,000 families would be forced to pay the AMT—a 471% increase from the 117,000 households who paid it in 2005. The AMT patch in H.R. 3996 will protect 552,000 households statewide from paying the AMT, including nearly 45,000 in the 7th Congressional District. “Today is a victory for millions of Americans who will be spared another year from unfairly paying the AMT,” Congressman Cummings said. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass future legislation that will permanently eliminate the AMT from threatening the families who were never meant to be affected by it.” The legislation also cracks down on special interest tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans by stopping hedge fund managers and CEO’s from escaping income taxes by using offshore tax havens as unlimited retirement accounts and by closing loopholes that allow the privileged few on Wall Street to pay a lower tax rate on their income than other hardworking Americans, such as teachers and firefighters. Additionally, it provides 30 million homeowners with property tax relief, saves money for 3.4 million teachers with a classroom expense deduction, and helps make college more affordable for 4.5 million families through the tuition deduction. “Republican mis-priorities, fiscal irresponsibility, and tax cuts for the wealthy have resulted in $9 trillion of national debt,” Congressman Cummings said. “Today, Congress was finally able to pass responsible tax relief to help move our economy in a new, healthy direction.” ###
11.09.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Statement on Hearing to Examine San Francisco Oil Spill Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the following statement announcing his intention to convene a hearing by the Subcommittee to address procedures for dealing with oil spills. The hearing comes in response to the oil spill in the San Francisco Bay that occurred on Wednesday after a cargo ship bumped into the Bay Bridge. “The consequences of the oil spill in the San Francisco Bay have been devastating to the marine environment, and I am deeply troubled by the reports and pictures of dead and oil-covered birds, seals, and porpoises. “I am very concerned that the Coast Guard was apparently unaware of the extent of this disaster and that they were not adequately prepared to handle a spill of this magnitude. There is an extreme difference between the 140 gallons of spilled oil initially reported by the Coast Guard and the nearly 60,000 gallons that we now hear have been spilled. “For this reason, the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation will hold a hearing as soon as the Congressional schedule permits. This hearing will examine the adequacy of the system for reporting oil spills and the effectiveness of the Coast Guard response. We must determine how to best prevent such devastation from occurring in the future.” ###
11.08.2007	Washington, DC—Today, while questioning Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke at a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee regarding the nation’s economic outlook, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) heatedly called on him to increase efforts to assist families who are losing their homes due to foreclosures resulting from the subprime mortgage crisis. “Anyone who walks through my district will see family after hard-working family losing their homes because they were victimized by predatory subprime lenders,” Congressman Cummings said. “I have a difficult time buying the picture of potential economic growth being painted this morning by Chairman Bernanke when I see people who may have lost their only chance in a lifetime at home ownership.” The effects of the subprime lending crisis are rippling throughout the economy, reflected in everything from the accelerating slump in housing markets across the country to the summer’s global financial crises driven almost entirely by fears about the collapsing subprime mortgage market. While continuing to jeopardize the overall economy, the subprime crisis also continues to drive tens of thousands of families out of their homes and is constricting the flow of credit to millions of Americans. Approximately 1 in 5 of the subprime loans issued in the past two years is expected to go into default, costing 2.2 million families their homes. Effects have been particularly noticeable in Maryland, which currently ranks 22nd nationally in home foreclosures—compared to last year’s ranking of 40th. Additionally, over the past two years, foreclosures have cost the City of Baltimore approximately $1.8 billion in reduced property value. The Fed has made some efforts to alleviate the negative effects of the subprime crisis, such as issuing guidelines to be followed by lenders and participating in programs like NeighborWorks America, a nonprofit organization that helps thousands of borrowers who are facing current or potential distress in obtaining assistance from their lenders. Congressman Cummings applauds these measures as a good start, but insists that more needs to be done. “We have a serious crisis facing millions of families whose American Dream of homeownership is—on a daily basis—turning into an utter nightmare,” Congressman Cummings said. “The Federal Reserve must begin putting pressure on financial institutions to help these families on the brink of foreclosure and work more closely with the states to ensure effective enforcement of the regulations designed to protect consumers. We cannot curtail this crisis without strong efforts to assist the borrowers who are suffering from predatory lending practices.” Congressman Cummings has been a leader in addressing the subprime lending crisis. He introduced the House resolution (H.Res.526) passed over the summer to support responsible lending practices and has co-sponsored numerous bills to revitalize the housing market and assist at-risk borrowers. He is currently putting together a forum to bring together lenders and borrowers in an effort to assist families in keeping their homes. ### end text
11.08.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 Cummings Calls on Bernanke to Do More to Prevent Foreclosures Urges Federal Reserve Chairman to Help Families Who are Losing Their Homes Washington, DC—Today, while questioning Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke at a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee regarding the nation’s economic outlook, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) heatedly called on him to increase efforts to assist families who are losing their homes due to foreclosures resulting from the subprime mortgage crisis. “Anyone who walks through my district will see family after hard-working family losing their homes because they were victimized by predatory subprime lenders,” Congressman Cummings said. “I have a difficult time buying the picture of potential economic growth being painted this morning by Chairman Bernanke when I see people who may have lost their only chance in a lifetime at home ownership.” The effects of the subprime lending crisis are rippling throughout the economy, reflected in everything from the accelerating slump in housing markets across the country to the summer’s global financial crises driven almost entirely by fears about the collapsing subprime mortgage market. While continuing to jeopardize the overall economy, the subprime crisis also continues to drive tens of thousands of families out of their homes and is constricting the flow of credit to millions of Americans. Approximately 1 in 5 of the subprime loans issued in the past two years is expected to go into default, costing 2.2 million families their homes. Effects have been particularly noticeable in Maryland, which currently ranks 22nd nationally in home foreclosures—compared to last year’s ranking of 40th. Additionally, over the past two years, foreclosures have cost the City of Baltimore approximately $1.8 billion in reduced property value. The Fed has made some efforts to alleviate the negative effects of the subprime crisis, such as issuing guidelines to be followed by lenders and participating in programs like NeighborWorks America, a nonprofit organization that helps thousands of borrowers who are facing current or potential distress in obtaining assistance from their lenders. Congressman Cummings applauds these measures as a good start, but insists that more needs to be done. “We have a serious crisis facing millions of families whose American Dream of homeownership is—on a daily basis—turning into an utter nightmare,” Congressman Cummings said. “The Federal Reserve must begin putting pressure on financial institutions to help these families on the brink of foreclosure and work more closely with the states to ensure effective enforcement of the regulations designed to protect consumers. We cannot curtail this crisis without strong efforts to assist the borrowers who are suffering from predatory lending practices.” Congressman Cummings has been a leader in addressing the subprime lending crisis. He introduced the House resolution (H.Res.526) passed over the summer to support responsible lending practices and has co-sponsored numerous bills to revitalize the housing market and assist at-risk borrowers. He is currently putting together a forum to bring together lenders and borrowers in an effort to assist families in keeping their homes. ###
11.06.2007	Contact:Jennifer Kohl202.225.4289 or 202.225.4025Trudy Perkins410.685.9199 or 202.225.4641 House Passes Legislation from Cummings to Eliminate Bureaucratic Bungling Kendell Frederick Bill removes obstacles for non-citizens in the military seeking naturalization Washington, DC—The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation today introduced by Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, member of the House Armed Services Committee, which will expedite the citizenship process for over 45,000 non-citizens serving in the U.S. military. “Taking up arms to defend our nation and help secure freedom is an act of service made even more meaningful when this great sacrifice is made by soldiers not born in the United States,” Congressman Cummings said. “When people are willing to fight relentlessly on the battlefield to protect our great nation, they should not also be forced to battle through a drawn-out citizenship process full of unnecessary red tape.” The Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act of 2007, H.R. 2884, enacts the following common sense guidelines to eliminate bureaucratic obstacles for obtaining citizenship while serving in the U.S. military: Directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to use fingerprints provided by individuals at the time of enlistment to satisfy any fingerprint requirements as part of an application for naturalization. Ensures that enlistment fingerprints are provided in an acceptable form for the naturalization process once the application for citizenship is submitted. Requires DHS to update any applications, instructions and guidebooks, and the DHS website when naturalization procedures pertaining to members of the military are changed. Importantly, the bill does not change any existing safeguards in the naturalization process that prevent abuse of the process by those seeking to harm our country. “When non-citizens embrace our nation by risking their lives to protect it, we should fully embrace them in return by ensuring that the citizenship process is one of ease—not of bureaucratic bungling,” Congressman Cummings said. “There is absolutely no excuse for allowing men and women to risk their lives without also allowing their requests for citizenship to be processed expeditiously.” Congressman Cummings introduced H.R. 2884 to honor the memory of Army Reserve Specialist Kendell K. Frederick, a 21-year-old resident of Baltimore County and native of Trinidad who was derailed in obtaining his citizenship due to a number of bureaucratic errors. For more than a year, Spc. Frederick was victim to government misinformation and miscommunication, resulting in his naturalization application being delayed multiple times. On October 19, 2005, he was killed by a roadside bomb in Baghdad while traveling to be re-fingerprinted for his application. “Losing our soldiers is a consequence of war that none of us wants to face. What makes this loss especially painful is that it should never have happened,” Congressman Cummings said. “Spc. Frederick gave his life while showing his gratitude to this country by trying to become one of its own. Today, the House of Representatives sent a clear message that when people take it upon themselves to perform heroic acts for our country before becoming citizens, we will do everything in our power to ensure they can attain citizenship in an expeditious fashion.” ###
10.30.2007	start text Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a member of the Joint Economic Committee, joined his colleagues in a vote of 334-80 to pass H.R. 3867, the Small Business Contracting Improvements Act, which amends key sections of the Small Business Act to allow for a more competitive procurement marketplace by expanding opportunities for small businesses. “Small business is a big business in America, creating half of our gross domestic product and driving our entire economy,” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation takes steps to assist small business participation and prevent fraud, encouraging small businesses to flourish—particularly in distressed areas. Key highlights of the bill include: Expanding contracting opportunities for small businesses owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, who currently only receive a fraction of their contracting goal Adopting a roadmap to provide information, advice, and training to veterans and creating penalties for businesses misrepresenting themselves with service-disabled veteran classifications Strengthening opportunities for women entrepreneurs by requiring the Small Business Administration to immediately implement a procurement program that has been stalled for nearly seven years, costing women tens of billions of dollars in contracting opportunities Additionally, the legislation strengthens the HUBZone Empowerment Contracting program, which provides federal contracting opportunities for qualified small businesses in distressed areas and requires that contracts be performed within a reasonable distance of the particular area the contract is to benefit. It also revises the qualification requirements and modernizes the 8(a) program, which offers a broad scope of assistance to socially and economically disadvantaged firms. “The Small Business Contracting Improvements Act takes one more step toward restoring the American Dream for our families by creating a chance for prosperity for all Americans—including women and veterans,” Congressman Cummings said. “In the process of expanding opportunities for small business and eliminating fraud and abuse of taxpayer dollars, it strengthens our community development, offering a positive benefit for everyone.” end text
10.30.2007	Washington, DC— Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement in response to reports that the U.S. Department of State granted immunity to the guards involved in the September 16 shooting that killed 17 Iraqi civilians: “We cannot continue to risk the lives of hundreds of thousands of American troops and spend billions of taxpayer dollars on a mission in Iraq while undermining this same mission through the sanctioning of a shadow military of mercenary forces who operate in a vacuum of any kind of law or accountability. The questionable and careless practices of Blackwater USA and other private security firms are endangering the credibility of U.S. troops during a time when cooperation with the Iraqi people and government is critical for our success. The extent of this threat cannot be underscored enough—a senior U.S. military official has even asserted that the impact of the actions of Blackwater on Iraqi attitudes toward our troops will ‘hurt us badly.’ “During a recent hearing of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, I questioned Eric Prince, CEO of Blackwater USA, about his company’s policy of ‘shoot first—and sometimes kill—and then ask questions later.’ I found his responses to my questions, as well as to those posed by my colleagues, to be very unsettling. At that same hearing, I called upon officials of the State Department to start holding these private security firms accountable. “I was initially encouraged by the actions taken by the State Department in response to the controversy surrounding the shooting of 17 Iraqi civilians last month by Blackwater employees, including inviting the FBI to investigate the shooting and enacting new policies—such as installing cameras on vehicles—to help ensure responsible behavior. “It is unfortunate that these actions now appear to be nothing more than thinly-veiled steps to avoid a PR scandal, rather than the substantive actions needed to ensure the safety of U.S. troops and the integrity of our mission. I sincerely hope that this is not the case. It has come to light that the State Department granted limited immunity to the Blackwater guards involved in the September 16th shooting, complicating any possibility that the guards will be subjected to prosecution under U.S. law or—once again—any kind of accountability. “I am deeply concerned that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who appeared before the Committee last week, did not mention that Blackwater personnel were refusing to speak with the FBI under the immunity deal offered by the State Department. It does not bode well that in such a high-profile case, the Secretary of State would omit these details, implying that she was either unaware of the circumstances or was intentionally withholding this information from Congress. “I once again call upon the State Department to enact real standards of accountability for private security contractors in Iraq. For the sake of the lives of our troops and of Iraqi civilians, we cannot continue to allow these companies to slip through the cracks of Justice.” ### end text
10.25.2007	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) joined a majority of his colleagues in the House of Representatives to pass H.R. 3963, a revised version of the bipartisan re-authorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) that was vetoed by President Bush earlier this month. “The President blatantly misled the American people when he vetoed the original CHIP bill by falsely claiming that it would cover illegal immigrants, adults, and high-income children,” Congressman Cummings said. “Now we are sending him a new bill with even more provisions to address his alleged concerns, and I encourage him to stand with the majority of Congress by signing this bill. Ten million of our neediest children are depending on him.” The new version of the bill still provides coverage to 10 million children and still contains critical improvements to the existing program, including guaranteed dental benefits authored by Congressman Cummings in response to the death of Deamonte Driver, a 12-year-old Maryland boy who died when a tooth infection spread to his brain. However, it also contains new provisions to address the four main concerns raised by the President and several Republican members of Congress. It passed by a vote of 265-142. The additional provisions included in the bill include: Further clarifying that CHIP is targeted on enrolling low-income children first. While the vetoed bill provided states with financial incentives for covering low-income children and financial disincentives for covering children beyond 300% of the poverty level, new provisions were added capping enrollment at 300% of poverty and limiting states’ eligibility for bonus payments to covering additional Medicaid children. Further clarifying that CHIP does not cover illegal immigrants. While the vetoed bill established a requirement that states establish beneficiaries’ citizenship to enroll and allowed states to verify citizenship through the Social Security Administration (SSA), a new provision was added requiring states to obtain further documentation of citizenship if SSA cannot confirm it. Further clarifying that CHIP is focused on phasing out adults. While the vetoed bill phased out coverage of adults over two years, a new provision was added speeding up this process to occur over one year instead of two. Further clarifying that CHIP minimizes crowd-out from private insurance plans. While the original bill created new options for states to develop and expand premium assistance programs that would keep children in their parents’ employer-sponsored plan, the new bill contains a provision adding premium assistance programs to the list of things a state can do to receive bonuses. It will also now require all states to develop plans and implement recommended best practices for minimizing crowd-out. “Today, my colleagues were offered the opportunity to put the health of ten million children over political maneuvering, and the overwhelmingly voted to protect our children,” Congressman Cummings said. “I now encourage President Bush to take the same road.” ### end text
10.25.2007	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement in response to this morning’s hearing with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice regarding issues relating to Iraq: “After receiving substantial testimony from witnesses at previous hearings, I was delighted that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice finally found the time to appear before the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. It was my hope that she would use this opportunity to address the severe corruption in Iraq, which has had the effect of undermining not only the Iraqi government, but also our efforts to assist them in standing on their own. “President Bush has repeatedly told us ‘when the Iraqis stand up, we can stand down,’ but I do not see much possibility of reaching this objective when the Iraqi people do not have a leg on which to stand. It is evident that we need to make significant efforts to eradicate this corruption that is crippling the Iraqi government, and Ms. Rice’s testimony this morning did not instill much confidence that such actions are a priority. “The State Department and the Bush Administration are not doing enough to manage the Iraq War, but they are doing everything in their power to hide this mismanagement. In light of yesterday’s report from the independent Congressional Budget Office stating that the American people will pay a projected $1.7 trillion for the Iraq War through the next decade, I do not think it is asking too much that we be offered a candid, public assessment of the administration’s failed policy, failed oversight, and failed diplomatic efforts. “Four years after we toppled Saddam Hussein’s regime, Iraq is still the third most corrupt country in the world. We are hearing endless reports, from both State Department officials and independent entities, that that this corruption in Iraq—including corruption of the Maliki government—is funding terrorists and undermining our troops. The Special Inspector General for Iraq recently testified before the Committee that the corruption in Iraq is a ‘second insurgency.’ “Furthermore, it would appear that the State Department is neglecting to make any substantive efforts at battling this corruption. The former head of the Office of Accountability and Transparency—an organization established by the State Department—testified that he was not aware of any coordinated U.S. strategy to fight corruption in Iraq. The head of the Government Accountability Office testified that State Department efforts are ‘fragmented, duplicative, and disorganized.’ “It is increasingly clear that no amount of military surges or blank checks written for this war will resolve the complex ethnic and religious conflicts that plague Iraq and its neighboring countries. It is time for the Bush Administration to stop covering up its failures and mismanagement and begin a new course in Iraq. This policy must include a multilateral and bilateral diplomatic initiative involving the international community and the countries neighboring Iraq.” ### end text
10.22.2007	Baltimore, Md.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) hosted an event for children of the St. Francis Xavier Head Start Center and their families offering free dental screenings, toothbrushes, toothpaste, and educational materials regarding dental care. “It is imperative that we get the word out about the importance of early dental care, particularly among low-income families,” Congressman Cummings said. “I wanted to ensure that these children are of sound health so they can get a head start by focusing on learning—not on a chronic toothache.” Today’s event originated from the tragic death of Deamonte Driver, a 12-year-old Maryland boy who died when a tooth infection spread to his brain, and was intended to raise awareness about the importance of pediatric dental care. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, dental disease is the single most common chronic childhood disease in the country, disproportionately affecting low-income children. Low-income children suffer twice as much from tooth decay than their more affluent counterparts, and they experience nearly 12 times more restricted activity days than wealthier children. “What happened to Deamonte Driver was tragic, and I am committed to ensuring that we bring life from his death,” Congressman Cummings said. “We must not allow this young man to have died in vain.” The event today is just one of Congressman Cummings’ efforts in a multi-faceted approach to increasing pediatric dental care. He also introduced Deamonte’s Law, H.R. 2371, to increase dental services in community health centers and train more individuals in pediatric dentistry, and he fought to include guaranteed dental benefits—including provisions he authored—in the re-authorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which was vetoed by President Bush. Additionally, he worked to establish a partnership between UnitedHealth, the Driver family’s insurance provider, and the University of Maryland Dental School to increase the number of dentists trained in pediatrics. “In the wealthiest state of the wealthiest country in the world, there is absolutely no excuse for tooth decay to be plaguing our children,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am personally committed to doing everything in my power to increase children’s access to dentists and raise awareness about the importance of dental care.” ### end text
10.18.2007	Washington, DC—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement today regarding the failure of the House of Representatives to override President Bush’s veto on the reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP): “Children are our living messages that we send to a future we will never see. Today, Congress was faced with the opportunity to send a message of responsibility and compassion. Unfortunately, some of my colleagues chose instead to send a message of political maneuvering—at the expense of our children. It is unconscionable that anyone would stand against the bipartisan, successful Children’s Health Insurance Program, and the President and those members of Congress who voted to support his veto should all be ashamed. I was truly disgusted by those members who actually cheered when today’s veto override was defeated. “I can think of ten million reasons for the American people to join me in expressing disappointment with President Bush and those who chose to join him in playing politics with the lives of one of our most vulnerable populations. Each one of these reasons is a child whose ability to see a doctor when he or she is sick has now been put in jeopardy. “For the people in my home state of Maryland, these 10 million children all have a face and a name: Deamonte Driver. Deamonte was a young boy who died when a tooth infection spread to his brain. Although a simple $80 procedure could have saved Deamonte’s life, he was poor and never made it to the dentist. The re-authorization of CHIP included critical provisions to guarantee dental benefits to the children who rely on this program for their health care. We had the opportunity to bring life from Deamonte’s death and ensure that his suffering was not in vain. Unfortunately, there were some who joined the President in choosing politics over our children. “It is shocking to the conscience that a President who brags about being a compassionate conservative would in one breath ask Congress for an additional $190 billion to spend in Iraq and then turn around in the next breath to strip away the health care coverage for millions of our children that would only cost a mere fraction of that amount. “President Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress spent six years exercising reckless spending, turning a record surplus into a record deficit. Now, while trying to play the part of fiscal conservative, Mr. Bush has targeted our children while blatantly misstating the facts in an attempt to excuse this unjustifiable veto—even as members of his own party have taken a stand against him. “While today has been a setback for the well-being of our children, I will not be deterred from my fight to fulfill our moral obligation to protect and provide for them. I will work with Speaker Pelosi and my colleagues to ensure that we send this legislation back to the President’s desk—without making any medically and socially irresponsible concessions.” ### end text
10.17.2007	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, joined his colleagues in passing landmark legislation to improve railroad safety, including a provision addressing problems outlined in the National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) report on the 2001 Howard Street Tunnel fire in Baltimore. The Federal Railroad Safety Improvement Act of 2007, H.R. 2095, of which Cummings is a co-sponsor, passed today by a vote of 377-38. “The Howard Street Tunnel fire was a catastrophic eye-opener to the need for a safety overhaul of our nation’s railway systems, particularly where tunnels and bridges are concerned,” Congressman Cummings said. “This legislation establishes a strong foundation to help prevent and respond to future events, protecting us from experiencing such a devastating disaster on such a large scale again.” Following an investigation of the massive fire caused in 2001 when a train derailed in the Howard Street Tunnel, puncturing several tank cars and igniting flammable liquid, the NTSB reported that first responders were lacking adequate information on hazardous discharge procedures in the tunnel. H.R. 2095 includes language authored by Congressman Cummings to address these findings by requiring railroads to provide information to local jurisdictions regarding the entry and exit pathways and types of cargo transported through rail tunnels. The Federal Railroad Safety Improvement Act is the first significant rail safety legislation to come before the House since the most recent authorization of federal safety programs expired nearly ten years ago. In addition to the provision authored by Congressman Cummings, key highlights of the bill to prevent the deterioration of track and reduce human casualties include: Limiting the amount of hours and providing additional rest for rail workers to prevent fatigue Requiring railroads to conduct integrity inspections to ensure that tracks are free from defects Establishing minimum training standards for rail workers and requiring certification of conductors and carmen. “These improvements to the safety precautions of our railroad tunnels and bridges are long overdue,” Congressman Cummings said. “This bill strikes the critical balance between ensuring that our railways are both safe and conducive to our growing commerce industry.” ### startwidainctext end text
10.16.2007	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, joined the Committee in introducing H.Res.734, to express dismay at the Bush Administration’s cover-up of information regarding Iraqi corruption. A vote is expected this afternoon. “The President has requested an additional $150 billion for his War in Iraq to ‘spread democracy,’ but it appears that we’re only spreading the corruption, deception, and cover-ups that have come to define this Administration,” Congressman Cummings said. “I encourage all of my colleagues to support this measure and send a clear message that we will not tolerate these actions from the Iraqi government or from our own.” The resolution comes in response to actions by the U.S. Department of State to retroactively classify reports and portions of reports detailing problems with Iraqi corruption following an October 4 hearing by the Oversight and Government Reform Committee investigating the extent of these problems. According to the non-partisan organization Transparency International, Iraq is currently the third most corrupt country in the world. During the hearing, Stuart Bowen, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, and David Walker, the Comptroller General of the U.S., testified that the increasing corruption in Iraq is undermining efforts to construct and maintain the country’s infrastructure, depriving people of goods and services and instead diverting embezzled funds to insurgency groups. “Success in our mission in Iraq is dependent on the maintenance of a transparent, honest Iraqi government,” Congressman Cummings said. “We cannot allow the Bush Administration to cover-up the reality of the situation in Iraq while continuing to spend billions of taxpayer dollars a month and risk the lives of our troops.” The Committee also heard testimony from Judge Radhi Hamza al-Radhi, the former Commissioner of the Iraqi Commission on Public Integrity, who uncovered up to $18 billion in funds lost to corruption. In response to his investigation, he, his family, and his staff became the targets of retaliation. A total of thirty-one people from his office and twelve of their family members were killed, his home was struck by rockets, and he was forced to flee the country. “President Bush is fond of invoking a free and democratic Iraqi society, but the reports of whistleblowers being hung on meat hooks and tortured does not strike me to be an atmosphere consistent with being either free or democratic,” Congressman Cummings said. “If the President were serious about spreading democracy, he would not condone withholding this information from the American people. I encourage my colleagues not to condone it, either, by voting today in support of H.Res.734.” ### end text
10.15.2007	Baltimore, Md.— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released a new report on the Medicare Part D drug program revealing that high administrative costs of the private Part D insurers, combined with their inability to negotiate significant drug savings, will cost taxpayers and seniors almost $15 billion this year. “President Bush and some of my colleagues in Congress have been robbing the federal treasury to line the pockets of big business—at the expense of our families and seniors,” Congressman Cummings said. “This corporate welfare must be put to an end.” The investigation by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee is the first independent analysis to incorporate proprietary data about drug plan costs and drug prices. Key findings include: · High administrative expenses. Part D private insurers report administrative expenses, sales costs, and profits of almost $5 billion in 2007—including $1 billion in profits alone. The administrative costs of the privatized Part D program are almost six times higher than the administrative costs of the traditional Medicare program. · Failure to negotiate significant drug manufacturer rebates. The drug price rebates negotiated by the Part D insurers reduce Medicare drug spending by just 8.1%, compared to a 26% decrease in drug spending from rebates in the Medicaid program. Because of the difference in the size of the rebates, the transfer of low-income seniors from Medicaid drug coverage to Medicare drug coverage will result in a $2.8 billion windfall for drug manufacturers in 2007. · Failure to pass through rebates to seniors. Although private insurers are required to give Medicare beneficiaries access to negotiated prices, including all discounts and rebates, the insurers do not pass rebates through to beneficiaries with gaps in coverage like the “donut hole.” This year alone, private insurers will receive $1 billion in rebates on purchases that seniors with coverage gaps will pay for out of their own pockets. “This report is consistent with my early criticisms of the Medicare Part D program’s corporate handouts and failures,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am committed to ensuring that we shed light on these failures and uphold our obligation to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars.” Attached: Copy of the Medicare Part D Report ### end text
10.11.2007	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, released the following statement in response to the announcement of an agreement between Baltimore City and CSX Transportation to repair the Sinclair Lane Bridge and the Fort Avenue Bridge, both of which have been deemed structurally deficient: “I am very pleased that Baltimore City and CSX were able to reach this agreement, and I am looking forward to the day that reconstruction of these bridges will begin. The Sinclair Lane and Fort Avenue bridges are among the most structurally deficient of all the bridges in Baltimore. Their replacement has been long overdue. “I have been working closely with Mayor Sheila Dixon and CSX to help facilitate an arrangement to repair these bridges that are the shared responsibility of the City and CSX. Today’s announcement signifies an effective agreement that demonstrates a commitment by CSX to be a strong partner to both Baltimore City and the State of Maryland. “I am committed to fighting to secure the investments necessary to ensure that our nation’s infrastructure is safe and able to meet our growing mobility needs. There is absolutely no reason why—in the wealthiest state of the wealthiest country in the world—parents should be afraid to drive their children to school because the infrastructure is crumbling and collapsing around them. I will continue working to ensure that every road, bridge, tunnel, and railway is safe for our families.” ### end text
10.10.2007	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), member of the Joint Economic Committee, joined his colleagues to pass H.R. 2895, the National Affordable Housing Trust Fund Act of 2007, establishing a national affordable housing trust fund to build or preserve 1.5 million homes over the next ten years, without increasing the federal deficit. “Since the beginning of the year, we have watched predatory subprime lending practices employ a negative ripple effect on our entire economy, forcing hardworking families into homelessness every day,” Congressman Cummings said. “Today’s bill is just one of many efforts to help ease the fallout of the subprime crisis by offering affordable housing and helping these families save the American Dream of home ownership from becoming a nightmare.” There are currently approximately 750,000 people homeless on any given night, and one in seven (17 million) households is spending more than 50 percent of its income on housing. H.R. 2895 addresses the need for increased affordable housing by establishing a trust fund to allocate between $800 million and $1 billion annually directly to states and local communities, without increasing government spending or the federal deficit. The fund targets lower-income families facing the greatest housing affordability challenges, requiring all monies to be used for families with incomes below 80 percent of state or local median income. Additionally, at least 75 percent of the funds must be allocated to families with incomes below 30 percent of the state or local median. The fund also allows monies to be used for construction, rehabilitation, acquisition, preservation incentives, and operating assistance to facilitate affordability. “Today, the 110th Congress has continued working to fulfill its promise to move America in a new direction by assuring that adequate affordable housing is available for families who have lost their homes,” Congressman Cummings said. “The Affordable Housing Trust Fund will help reduce homelessness and provide more Americans with the opportunity to live in safe housing conditions.” ### end text
10.04.2007	New London, Ct.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, was joined by United States Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thad Allen in addressing the student body, faculty, and staff of the Coast Guard Academy in response to the placement of nooses in the bag of a student and the office of an officer conducting diversity training (text of speech below). “These cadets are a group of extraordinary young men and women who represent the very best of the best,” Congressman Cummings said. “However, it is important for them to understand that a service as noble as the United States Coast Guard has no place for hatred and disrespect for others, and they will only be as strong as their weakest link.” The trip to the Academy came following reports a noose was found in the bag of an African-American student in July, and that another was found in August in the office of a white female officer conducting diversity training in response to the first incident. Upon learning of the nooses last week, Congressman Cummings called upon Admiral Allen to initiate a full criminal investigation and to address the entire student body. “Honor plays an extremely important role service-wide in the Coast Guard, and I wanted to make it clear that these racist, threatening acts were dishonorable. I also wanted these cadets to understand that they themselves should not tolerate one among them who will bring dishonor to the service,” Congressman Cummings said. “I knew this was a message that needed to come from the very top, so I called upon Admiral Allen, who reacted immediately—as I knew he would.” Following his speech, Congressman Cummings will be touring the Academy as well as dining with cadets. “The Coast Guard is a great service, best exemplified during Hurricane Katrina. When all other systems broke down and failed, the Coast Guard stood strong, and its members risked their lives to save everyone, not just those whose skin color matched their own,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am confident that our message today resonated with these students, and I have hope that they will ensure that this service remains the shield of freedom it has been for more than 200 years.” The text of the Congressman’s Speech: Congressman Elijah E. Cummings Remarks to the United States Coast Guard Academy October 4, 2007 ___________ I. WELCOME Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an honor and a privilege to stand before you today. On behalf of the United States Congress, I have come to express my gratitude – and the gratitude of our nation – for your service. Since assuming the Chairmanship of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation at the beginning of this year, I have had the privilege to observe, first-hand, the essential missions that the Coast Guard performs. And I have seen how your commitment to service is translated into the courageous actions that protect our nation each day and save thousands of lives each year. In fact, even before I became Chairman of the Coast Guard Subcommittee, I had the honor of witnessing one of the great acts of heroism in our nation’s history – and that was the rescue of the victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The numbers still amaze me. During those terrible days in the late summer of 2005, the Coast Guard rescued more than 24,200 lives – and evacuated an additional 9,400 patients and medical personnel – from the Gulf Coast. I am truly humbled by – and immensely proud of – the nearly 41,000 men and women who comprise our nation’s “shield of freedom.” **** I. AN UNBROKEN CHAIN The Coast Guard’s annals are filled with individual acts of heroism. Yet, your training also stresses another essential truth: Of necessity, protecting America must be a team effort. Each of you is an important link in a chain of defenders that stretches back to the formation of our Republic. And as a Service, the Coast Guard has succeeded because you never forget that you must depend upon each other, trust each other and protect each other, even as you defend the rest of us. Any attack upon any link in this chain of defenders that guards our nation has the potential to endanger us all. And while it may seem unfair, organizations are judged by their weakest link. The importance of these simple facts is the reason that I have traveled here from Washington to have this conversation with you today. I firmly believe that America’s greatest strength derives not from our advanced weaponry – as awesome as those instruments of war are. Our greatest strength as a free people is the respect we have for the dignity and value of every human being. And it is this commitment, this fundamental principal upon which our nation was founded, that we are now once again fighting to uphold. If we were to lose this essential aspect of our shared citizenship, we would in fact lose the essence on which our experiment in democracy rests. When each of you chose to put on the uniform of the Coast Guard, you undertook the duty to defend and uphold this right of every person in our nation to live in freedom, security and respect. And it is to this duty above all else that any one who wears our nation’s uniform must always – always – remain faithful. **** II. THE THREAT TO OUR UNITY Commandant Allen is a man of the highest honor and integrity – a true leader who upholds our nation’s commitment to human dignity everyday. And I have seen this same expression of character, honor and commitment in the eyes of every member of the Coast Guard whom I have been privileged to meet. You know all of this. And that is why I know that there were very many people who, like me, were not only outraged but also deeply saddened when it was revealed that nooses had been placed among the effects of an African American cadet – and in the office of an officer conducting diversity training. Now, I hope that you will remember what I was saying to you a few moments ago about the unity that is so essential to the defense of our country – and about the strength that arises from our mutual respect for each other and that comprises the chain of liberty and freedom of which each of you is an essential link. Any attack upon any link in this chain of our nation’s defenders weakens and endangers us all. The placement of a noose – like the burning of a cross – is an act of hatred intended to threaten and intimidate. In a very real sense, it is an act of terrorism – an action intended to deprive a fellow human being of his or her own sense of the personal freedom and security that we, as Americans, hold to be every person’s right. It is a heinous attack calculated to make it far more difficult for you – as a Service – to achieve the strength of unity that your essential mission for the people of our country requires. This is why we all must respond to these incidents with determination and clarity. We must speak with one mind and one voice to declare that there is no place for such terror in the Coast Guard or anywhere in our nation. **** III. THE STRENGTH TO FIGHT DIVISION Ladies and gentlemen, 950 individuals – representing all 50 states in our union together with Guam, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia – attend our Coast Guard Academy. Sixteen international students also attend this institution. Approximately 14.5 percent of the student body is comprised of ethnic minorities and just over 27 percent of students are female. This student body – and our future officer corps – represents the great diversity of our nation. I suggest to you that this diversity is not a “problem” or a “challenge” that must be “managed.” Diversity – and our mutual respect for each other – are our greatest strengths as a nation. Diversity is a promise that exists in every single individual – a promise that can only be cultivated and fully realized through our collective commitment to assure fair treatment to everyone. In my own life, I have learned through personal experience more about the devastating impact of racial hatred than anyone should learn. And this is what I know. Racism is an evil that seeks to destroy the possibility that exists in every human being. Racial hatred and intolerance can damage our service academies – and indeed our nation’s armed forces – more severely than any wound our enemies could inflict. And those forces that can weaken and divide us leave us vulnerable to defeat. The United States Coast Guard is rightfully celebrated as our “shield of freedom.” Protection of that right begins here with each one of you through your treatment of those who, like you, have committed themselves to our nation’s service. And the day will come when each of you will be an officer in the United States Coast Guard, and it will be your duty to cultivate the promise that exists in each of the individuals whom you will be called to lead. If you cannot accept this responsibility, you must question whether you are truly prepared to lead. And that brings me to another critical point. Those who stand against injustice, intolerance or even incompetence are not disloyal to the Coast Guard or to their brothers and sisters in arms. Our Coast Guard must never allow an atmosphere to exist that condones complicity in a conspiracy of silence about actions that are wrong. There is no loyalty, no honor, and no dignity in silence. And so I call upon you to cooperate in the investigation of the incidents that occurred here – and to commit yourselves to always speak the truth – even to power. In short, I ask you to synchronize your conduct with your conscience. Those men and women of the Coast Guard who rescued more than 33,600 individuals from the rising flood waters of the Gulf Coast did not ask whether the person to be saved was black or white, Asian or Hispanic. They simply saw Americans suffering – and without hesitation, and at risk of their own lives – they reached their hands to lift their fellow human beings from harm’s way. The example of these Coast Guardsmen and women speaks louder than any words I can say today. **** CLOSING Ladies and gentlemen, when I look at you, I see the promise of our nation. I can see your commitment to the vital mission of defending our country. Let nothing stand between you and the fulfillment of that duty. Each of you is a member of a Service that is as old as America. You carry on your shoulders the proud legacy of a Coast Guard that has saved more than one million lives. In so many ways, you embody the best of America. And we must work together to assure that this Academy and this proud Service always fulfills this destiny. Only in so doing can you truly fulfill the Coast Guard’s core values for which you must stand: Honor, Respect, and Devotion to Duty. There is no place in any of these values for the degradation of any human being. Remember this, ladies and gentlemen, and the Coast Guard will always be strong, always be unified. And it will always be a place where every individual is free to fulfill the promise of their God given potential. Stand up for the values that called you to serve your country. Semper Paratus. Always Ready. As I close, I want to leave you with the thoughts of Marianne Williamson, who has given voice to the duty that you all have to be true to your own values and your own potential. # # # # “Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness, that most frightens us. We ask ourselves, ‘Who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, and fabulous?’ Actually, who are you NOT to be? You are a child of God. Your playing small doesn't serve the world. There’s nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won't feel insecure around you. We are all meant to shine, as children do. We were born to make manifest the glory of God that is within us. It’s not just in some of us; it’s in everyone. And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. As we’re liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others.” -Marianne Williamson, 1992 ### end text
10.03.2007	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement following President Bush’s veto of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP): “Access to quality health care is not a privilege—it is a right. Today, President Bush took away that right from millions of our nation’s children. Although I am deeply disappointed in the President, I am not surprised. It is simply unconscionable that he requested another $190 billion from Congress to spend in Iraq and then turned around to strip away the healthcare coverage of millions of our children. “It is a very sad time when the President of our country—elected to represent the interests of everyday people—chooses his own interests instead, vetoing legislation to reauthorize a successful program with broad bipartisan support. I expect more of the President’s misleading rhetoric in an attempt to excuse this unjustifiable move. While I am confident that the majority of Americans will not fall for his charade, such confidence sadly offers no solace to the millions of children who will no longer be able to see their doctors. “I agree strongly with Republican Senator Charles Grassley when he said this is not the time for the President to be playing ‘catch-up’ on failing to veto spending bills in the past six years. I will work hard with Speaker Pelosi and the Democratic leadership to convince my colleagues in the House to override the President’s veto on our children’s well-being, and I ask the public to join us in urging their representatives to join us in this fight.” ### end text
10.02.2007	Washington, DC—At a hearing today before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform examining private military contracting, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), a senior member of the Committee, released the following statement: “Blackwater and similar private security companies have created a shadow military of mercenary troops in Iraq that are not accountable to the U.S. government or to anyone else. The questionable and careless practices of these companies, which have in the past mistakenly been attributed to U.S. military, are endangering the credibility of our troops during a time when cooperation with the Iraqi people and government is critical for the success of our mission. “We have received numerous reports showing controversial actions taken by the company—independent of the September 16 shooting incident in Baghdad that killed 11 Iraqi civilians, wounded 14 others, and resulted in efforts by the Iraqi government to ban the company from operating in Iraq—including attempting to cover-up a shooting that killed an innocent Iraqi bystander. Furthermore, despite a contract with the State Department permitting them to use force only for defensive purposes, Blackwater reports firing the first shot in over 80 percent of the 195 ‘escalation of force’ incidents. I find these reports very troubling. “I am equally troubled by the vacuum of legal accountability in which these contractors are operating. This is perhaps best illustrated by the incident on Christmas Eve, 2006, when an intoxicated Blackwater contractor shot the Iraqi Vice President’s security guard—the equivalent of shooting a Secret Service member here—and walked away with nothing but a slap on the wrist: a small fine, the termination of his contract with the company, and a paid plane ticket home. Even more disturbing, when the U.S. military was blamed for the incident in the Iraqi press, Blackwater did nothing to clarify the record. “We cannot afford such carelessness and misplaced blame, particularly when we are trying to win the trust and cooperation of the Iraqi people. This undermines the ability of the U.S. military to complete its mission in Iraq—a war it should not even have entered. While it is encouraging that the FBI will be investigating the September 16 incident, it is too little, too late. The State Department must step up its accountability efforts by setting standards by which these private contractors must operate and implementing just penalties for misconduct by contractors.” ### end text
10.01.2007	Baltimore, Md.—Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), member of the House Domestic Policy Subcommittee of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, joined Chairman Dennis Kucinich (Oh.-10), for a field hearing entitled “Combating Drug Abuse and Drug-Related Crime: What is Working in Baltimore?” to examine innovative approaches and best practices to combat drug use and drug-related violence. “Drug abuse and drug-related violence have destroyed whole generations in our community and in too many other communities across the nation,” Congressman Cummings said. “These destructive forces know no bounds, and it is critical that we do everything possible to prevent them from causing any additional harm.” The hearing, held at the University of Maryland School of Law, contained testimony from experts regarding Baltimore City’s innovative drug treatment and prevention strategies, including: The Baltimore Substance Abuse Systems, a groundbreaking effort that has been in the forefront of drug abuse reduction efforts, through such measures as the distribution of the highly effective, low-risk opiate dependency treatment buprenorphine. The State of Maryland’s drug treatment court model, whose comprehensive drug treatment services to non-violent offenders has been shown to stop drug-related violence before it starts. The emergence of other problem-solving courts, such as truancy and teen courts that aim to address the needs of at-risk youth. Additionally, the hearing addressed the difficulties in combating drug use and drug-related violence without proper funding from the federal government. “Today’s hearing showed us, as we have seen in the past, that inadequate and inconsistent federal funding has negatively impacted Baltimore’s ability to provide comprehensive services and treatment on request,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is absolutely unconscionable that we are spending billions of taxpayer dollars a month fighting terrorism overseas while neglecting to address the terrorism in our own backyards.” Congressman Cummings is a founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Drug Policy and served as the Ranking Democrat on the former House Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy, and Human Resources. He has been a leader in the battle against gang violence and drug-related crimes, including through the introduction of such legislation as the Witness Security and Protection Act, H.R. 933. ### end text
10.01.2007	Ellicott City, Md.—Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) joined Howard County Executive Ken Ulman at a press conference today to announce the County’s purchase of the U.S. Post Office in historic Ellicott City, which houses the Congressman’s District Office. “Today is the dawning of a new era in Ellicott City and Howard County, and I look forward to what the future holds for this wonderful historic site,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am excited to be entering this partnership with the County and serving our mutual constituency out of this beautiful building.” The County plans to use the post office to expand the Visitor Information Center, which is currently located in the building’s basement. The new space will allow for larger historical interpretation displays and ample space for brochures, maps, and books that reflect Howard County. It will also allow the center to showcase information for special events. Additionally, the County plans to make structural improvements to the building, including the installment of a new roof. “I am happy that the Howard County Visitor Information Center will be relocated to a beautiful new space that is a testament to the magnificent county it serves,” Congressman Cummings said. “I anticipate that the improvements to this building and the expansion of the tourist center will be beneficial to both the livelihood of our community and the overall tourism industry in Howard County.” The settlement date for the purchase is April 1, 2008, to allow Howard County Government to do its due diligence on the site. ### end text
09.26.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) addressed America’s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), calling on them to step up to the plate and re-evaluate their priorities when assessing the benefits provided to patients versus benefits provided to shareholders. “Like everyone in this room, I appreciate the benefits of our capitalist system, and I acknowledge its positive impact on innovation and technological development,” Congressman Cummings said in his address. “At some point, however, American taxpayers are going to fight back against companies that protect profits over people, and you do not need me to tell you that your companies are headed for a public relations disaster.” AHIP, the national association representing the majority of America’s health insurance providers, is holding its annual Medicaid and Medicare conferences in Washington, D.C., this week. Congressman Cummings, who has been a leader on improving children’s access to dental care following the tragic death of a 12-year-old Maryland boy named Deamonte Driver who died when a tooth infection spread to his brain, requested the opportunity to address the conferees on bridging the gap of dental access in Medicaid. “I made it my personal mission to ensure that from the death of Deamonte Driver we are able to bring life, and I have launched a multi-faceted approach to tackle the barriers to dental access for children at all levels,” Congressman Cummings said. “We have made great progress in this effort, but nothing we do will be successful without the participation of the insurance industry.” Congressman Cummings worked with his colleagues to ensure the inclusion of guaranteed dental benefits in the recently-passed Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) re-authorization, H.R. 976. He also introduced H.R. 2371, Deamonte’s Law, which ensures pediatric dental services to underserved populations. In addition, he has reached out to Governor Martin O’Malley and the Maryland state legislature, offering suggestions on ways to improve children’s dental access at the state level. He has also been working with UnitedHealth Group, the Driver family’s health provider, to address ways that the private insurance industry can improve the problem. In response, UnitedHealth recently formed a partnership with the University of Maryland’s Dental School. Under this agreement, UnitedHealth will provide over $170,000 annually to establish programs that will expand the number of dentists trained in pediatrics as well as ease the difficulties of children covered by Medicaid seeking dental appointments. “I did not come to AHIP’s conference today to place blame for the problems that exist in our healthcare system; however, the industry’s role is critical in improving the problem,” Congressman Cummings said. “UnitedHealth has taken a step in addressing this issue, and it is my hope that the rest of the industry will join our fight and begin caring about these children as if they were their own.” ### end text
09.26.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, issued the following statement in response to Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thad Allen’s plans to address the U.S. Coast Guard Academy next Thursday, October 4, and to launch a criminal investigation into the discovery of two nooses. The Commandant’s actions come at the request of Congressman Cummings in response to controversy surrounding these incidents. “I had no doubts that Admiral Allen would act immediately to address the issues of racism that have arisen at the Coast Guard Academy. I am very pleased to be accompanying him next week when he addresses the entire student body to convey the message that hateful, threatening behavior such as placing nooses among the personal effects of students and officers is both unacceptable and intolerable. “I am confident that the Admiral will be forceful in sending this message as he discusses the importance of respect and integrity that are expected from these students who are being trained to lead the United States Coast Guard. “Diversity and tolerance are two of the most important values that we must be instilling in these cadets, and I anticipate Admiral Allen continuing efforts to ensure that these values are a promise—not a problem.” ### end text
09.25.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Following the discovery of two nooses placed among the personal effects of a student and officer at the United States Coast Guard Academy, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, called upon Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thad Allen to address the full Academy and thoroughly investigate the incidents (text of letter below). “The U.S. Coast Guard Academy is an institution that is tasked with preparing the next generation of officers for one of our most noble services, and I was utterly shocked when I heard about these implicit threats on both a student and an officer,” Congressman Cummings said. “Racial discrimination and intolerance have no place in either the Academy or the Coast Guard, and these incidents run directly against the efforts being made to increase diversity throughout the Coast Guard.” The Academy announced that it will be expanding training on race relations following the discovery of the two hangman’s nooses—one found in the bag of an African-American cadet, and the second in the office of a white female officer who led a training on race relations in response to the first incident. While Congressman Cummings applauds the efforts of the Academy to expand training, he feels this is not enough. “It is absolutely unacceptable that such ignorant and hateful behavior would occur in today’s society—particularly in an institution such as the Coast Guard Academy,” Congressman Cummings said. “I have asked Admiral Allen not only to conduct a thorough investigation into the incidents, but also to address the entire Academy to convey that such behavior will not be tolerated in the Service.” Earlier this year, a task force convened by the Coast Guard examining the diversity of the Academy’s student body and faculty found that minorities comprised only 13.5 percent of the Coast Guard’s student body, compared to 16 percent in 1991. Additionally, minorities comprised only 7 percent of the faculty and staff. Because of the low number of African Americans recruited into the Coast Guard Academy and retained in the Coast Guard, less than one percent of Captains on active duty are African American. “The Coast Guard must redouble its effort to ensure that students and faculty at the Coast Guard Academy and throughout the Service—including at its highest officer levels—reflect the diversity of the American society,” Congressman Cummings said. “I will be working closely with Admiral Allen to ensure that this is the case.” Text of the letter: Dear Admiral Allen: I write today because I am extremely alarmed to learn about the two incidents involving the placement of nooses among the personal effects of an African American student at the United States Coast Guard Academy and later among the personal effects of an officer who was conducting a training session on race relations in response to the discovery of the first noose. These terrible incidents at the Academy – which were clearly intended to threaten and intimidate – directly contravene our efforts to increase diversity throughout the Coast Guard and they demand an immediate and forceful response from the highest levels of the Coast Guard’s leadership. I urge you to personally address the entire Academy community at the earliest possible date to make it clear that actions like those that occurred at the Academy will not be tolerated and to explain your views on diversity and tolerance, which I know to be consistent with my own. I believe it is also imperative that these incidents be thoroughly investigated – and that you make it clear that those who do not support the values of diversity and tolerance and those who would so purposefully incite fear among their fellow students and officers will not be permitted to remain in the service of the United States Coast Guard. Sincerely, Elijah E. CummingsMember of CongressChairman, Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation ### end text
09.25.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, in anticipation of the House of Representatives voting to pass H.R.976, the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) released the following statement: “CHIP has been an extremely successful, bipartisan program that has changed the lives of millions of children who would otherwise be left without health coverage. Voting to pass today’s bill sends a very strong, clear message to Americans that Congress will not abide by the President’s foolhardy policy of spending billions of dollars a month in Iraq while ignoring the needs of children right here in our own backyard. “While I prefer having a bill with more funding to cover more children, I am pleased that we were able to take this critical step today. This bill makes fundamental improvements to CHIP—which provides health coverage to children whose parents earn too much money to qualify for Medicaid but cannot afford private health insurance plans—including the expansion of the program to 3.8 million children who are currently eligible for the program but not already enrolled. “Furthermore, the reauthorization of CHIP includes a guaranteed dental benefit, quality assurance measures regarding access to dental care, and two specific provisions that I authored which significantly improve children’s access to dental care in the CHIP program. These provisions would educate new mothers on the importance of oral health and streamline state contracting practices. “I cannot stress enough the importance of these dental benefits; one need only look to the tragic story of Deamonte Driver, a twelve-year-old Maryland boy who died earlier this year when a tooth infection spread to his brain. A simple $80 procedure could have saved Deamonte’s life, but he was poor and never made it into a dental chair. “While Deamonte’s case was extreme, he was by no means alone in his suffering. It is unacceptable for the wealthiest country in the world, with our level of technology and medical advancements, to allow such gross negligence to occur. “The support for CHIP goes beyond the 6.6 million children currently enrolled in the program who are in danger of losing their health coverage. It goes beyond the 3.8 million children who will benefit from the improvements included in CHIP’s reauthorization. This is a program that is supported by a broad majority in the Senate. It is supported by 43 governors. It is supported by hundreds of organizations representing millions of Americans. “I call upon President Bush to stop trying to mislead the American people by manipulating the truth about CHIP, and I encourage my Republican colleagues in the House to stop playing the President’s game of Politics while putting the health of millions of children at risk.” ### end text
09.25.2007	Baltimore, MD — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md-07) sent a letter to Mr. Paul Graziano, Commissioner of the Housing Authority of Baltimore City, in response to a news report in the Baltimore Sun that the Housing Authority plans to use a significant majority of its affordable housing fund to demolish housing units without concrete redevelopment plans for the demolished areas. “Baltimore City is facing a serious housing crisis that most adversely affects low-income citizens,” Congressman Cummings said. “Before any more funds are spent on a short-term demolition plan, there must be a comprehensive strategy in place to develop quality, affordable housing in Baltimore—and that plan must be made available to the public.” In his letter, Congressman Cummings requested that Commissioner Graziano place a moratorium on additional demolition until a plan is developed to address the need for affordable housing in Baltimore; that a measurable commitment be made to assist Baltimore families with renovating and improving their existing homes; and that a report be provided to him by November 15, 2007 that details the past and planned future expenditure of monies from the affordable housing fund. “We need to address this problem with a sense of urgency,” Congressman Cummings said. “This includes setting a goal to ensure that every available resource will be used to move as quickly as possible for the development of quality, affordable housing in Baltimore.” The text of the letter follows:Dear Mr. Graziano: I was gravely concerned to learn about the Housing Authority of Baltimore City’s plan to use a significant majority of its affordable housing fund to demolish housing units when no concrete redevelopment plans are in place for the areas where the demolition is to occur. It is also troubling that I became aware of this decision through news reports and not directly from your office. As you know, the affordable housing fund includes federal funds from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Community Development Block Grant Program. At a time when these federal funds are being slashed by record amounts, it is unacceptable that they would be allocated on a short-term demolition project that would only exacerbate the lack of affordable housing in Baltimore City. We are facing a serious housing crisis in Baltimore that most adversely affects low-income citizens who have the greatest needs. Everyday, my office receives calls from constituents who have exhausted all efforts to find affordable housing in Baltimore City. Many of these people simply have nowhere to live. We need to address this problem with a sense of urgency by setting a goal of ensuring that every available resource will be used to move as quickly as possible to develop quality, affordable housing in Baltimore. The strategy must include public input. To that end, the Housing Authority should place a moratorium on additional demolition until demonstrable progress is made in constructing new housing. To assist those people who already have homes in Baltimore and who have made a commitment to stay in the City, the Housing Authority should develop a measurable plan to maximize the number of families it assists in renovating and improving their existing homes. Finally, I request that you develop a report detailing the expenditure of monies from the affordable housing fund by November 15, 2007, and I request that such report be made available to the public. Our City needs to undertake a city-wide discussion of how we will resolve our growing need for affordable housing. The data in the report I am requesting are critical to informing that discussion. I look forward to hearing from you soon. Sincerely, Elijah E. CummingsMember of Congress ### end text
09.24.2007	Baltimore, MD — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) announced the award of a $2 million grant from the Economic Development Administration (EDA) to East Baltimore Development, Inc. (EBDI) and the East Baltimore Incubator Corporation. “We cannot underscore the importance of ensuring that Maryland is on the forefront of scientific and technological development,” Congressman Cummings said. “This money will not only help us to succeed with this important priority, but it will also provide hundreds of new jobs within our community.” The EDA grant will contribute nearly half of the cost for the build-out of a life sciences facility which will house the training and incubator programs for the BioTechnical Institute of Maryland. The incubator will provide office space and wet labs for start-up businesses as part of Baltimore’s emerging life sciences industry. In addition to creating 400 jobs, this investment is also expected to leverage $8 million in private investment. “The Life Sciences Building is an anchor in the East Baltimore Development Project, which has brought with it the promise of thousands of new jobs and homes for our community,” Congressman Cummings said. “This grant is more than just an investment in East Baltimore, though; it is a major investment in the people of Baltimore City and of our great state.” ### end text
09.20.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), former Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, released the following statement regarding today’s Jena 6 rally in Jena, Louisiana: “The circumstances surrounding the events taking place in Jena, Louisiana, have evoked a sense of outrage, sadness, and utter shock. This tragic incident has created a movement across our nation, calling people—particularly our young people—to action. “This case brings to light the need to re-evaluate and question the balance of justice in our country when six young African-American boys are charged as adults for a school fight while the white children involved are walking free, receiving no punishment at all. “Young people across our country have repeatedly been accused of being disengaged. Today, gathering by the thousands from all parts of the nation to attend a rally voicing demands for justice and civil rights—two of the fundamental threads in the very fabric of our nation—they are proving that this is not the case. “While we cannot yet know the final outcome of this situation, we can offer our hopes that the principles that drew the attention and presence of so many today will shine justice on the resolution.” ### end text
09.20.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the Congressional Caucus on Drug Policy, called on John P. Walters, Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), to fix a failing drug interdiction plan in Mexico. “We cannot afford to spend hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars on a program that will not produce results,” Congressman Cummings said. “People across the country are suffering from the scourge of illegal drugs that have found their way to our streets from Mexico.” A new plan, known as the Southwest Border Counternarcotics Strategy, was designed in 2006 in response to a congressional mandate. According to a report released today by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), despite spending nearly $400 million in taxpayer dollars since 2000 to cut off the flow of illicit drugs from Mexico, importation of cocaine, heroin, marijuana and methamphetamines continue to rise. Furthermore, the GAO reports that corruption persists in Mexico, and ONDCP has failed to consult with the Mexican government regarding certain proposals that would require the cooperation of the government. “Mexico is the main thoroughfare for drugs produced in South and Central America to enter our country, and we are seeing a continual increase in the amount of illegal narcotics gaining entry in this manner,” Congressman Cummings said. “We cannot have a successful counternarcotics strategy without enlisting the cooperation and participation of Mexican authorities—and the Drug Czar must recognize this fact.” While the number of seizures of illegal drugs has generally increased, it has not increased proportionately with supply. Additionally, concerns have been raised about the number of seizures of methamphetamine, increasing five-fold in the past six years, indicating a significant increase in supply. “Mexico serves as a major hub for the drug trafficking industry, and the statistics showing such significant increases in the amount of narcotics making it past the border are a major cause for concern,” Congressman Cummings said. “While it is encouraging that we have seen some successes in combating this problem, our progress has not kept pace with the growing flow of drugs into our country.” Problems highlighted in the GAO report include the inability of U.S. law enforcement officers to board Mexican-flagged vessels suspected of transporting illicit drugs without specific permission, the suspension of an aerial monitoring program along the U.S. border due to personnel status issues, and the difficulty in delivering and maintaining helicopters for surveillance. The report also highlights concerns about increased power of Mexican Drug Trafficking Organizations (DTO’s), which have expanded illicit activities throughout Mexico and to almost every region of the U.S. The DTO’s, which have developed increasingly sophisticated drug trafficking methods and become more violent, have raised additional challenges for Mexico’s efforts to curb the problem. “We cannot underplay the importance of decreasing the ease with which drug traffickers are able to bring narcotics into our country,” Congressman Cummings said. “I urge Mr. Walters to act now to work with Mexico to create an effective plan to fight against this problem.” Congressman Cummings is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Drug Policy. He formerly served as Ranking Democrat on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy and Human Resources, which had oversight authority over the Office of National Drug Control Policy. As such, he led investigations into the effectiveness of ONDCP’s National Drug Control Strategy. ### end text
09.20.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), member of the House Armed Services Committee, announced the award of a grant exceeding $4 million to the State of Maryland from the Department of Defense’s Office of Economic Adjustment to assist in addressing issues arising from the implementation of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Commission. “This is great news for Maryland,” Congressman Cummings said. “While BRAC brings with it many opportunities for our State, we must ensure that we have the resources and infrastructure in place for a smooth implementation and adjustment.” The BRAC process will bring thousands of new jobs to the state, and the grant from the Department of Defense will help the state assist communities, businesses, and workers respond to the impact of BRAC. Additionally, it will stimulate cooperation between statewide and local adjustment activity in response to current defense downsizing and mission growth activity. “I have been fighting for resources to help prepare Maryland communities and military bases for the BRAC process,” Congressman Cummings said. “This grant is one of numerous realizations of that ongoing effort.” ### end text
09.19.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), member of the Joint Economic Committee, announced plans to develop legislation that will ease the subprime mortgage crisis following a committee hearing examining the spillover effects of subprime lending on the overall economy. “Following today’s Joint Economic Committee hearing, one thing became starkly clear: we have an immediate crisis on our hands, and we must take prompt legislative action to prevent the subprime crisis from further wreaking havoc on our overall economy,” Congressman Cummings said. “I will be working closely with Senator Schumer to develop legislation that offers a simple but long-term solution to this utter disaster.” Recent economic developments, including the summer’s credit crises in global financial markets driven almost entirely by fears about the collapsing subprime mortgage market, the accelerating slump in housing markets across the country, and the startling August jobs report, are evidence of the dramatic effect that the subprime disaster can have on the overall economy. Yesterday, to help address market fears, the Federal Reserve lowered the federal funds interest rate by .50%. Subprime loans—which are geared toward borrowers with low credit scores—are not inherently dangerous; however, some abusive practices within the quickly-growing industry have resulted in a dramatic increase in foreclosures. Approximately 1 in 5 of the subprime loans issued in the past two years will go into default, costing 2.2 million families their homes over the next two years. With an estimated 40 percent of current subprime borrowers eligible for fixed-rate loans, strong efforts to assist borrowers could curtail the subprime crisis. “Yesterday I joined my colleagues in passing H.R. 1852, the Expanding American Home Ownership Act of 2007, which will revitalize the Federal Housing Administration, allowing it to offer more services to borrowers—including those who are forced to take out subprime loans,” Congressman Cummings said. “Today’s hearing showed that, if this market trend continues at its current speed and direction, we will enter a recession. We must not allow this to happen.” Congressman Cummings is looking into development of legislation that would provide a one-page, user-friendly document during home sale closings providing essential information that outlines the terms of the buyer’s mortgage. This would help prevent users with adjustable rate mortgages from unexpected ballooning payments. Additionally, he is examining an option to amend Chapter 13 bankruptcy proceedings to allow judges the ability to reset mortgages of primary residences to current market value. The law currently only allows adjustment of vacation homes. “Every day, hardworking families are being forced into homelessness due to fallout from predatory lending—hurting not only those being driven out of their homes, but our entire economy as well,” Congressman Cummings said. “We must implement the necessary measures to prevent the American Dream of homeownership from continuing to become a nightmare.” ### end text
09.19.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, during a House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation hearing regarding cruise ship safety practices and procedures, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the Subcommittee, called on the Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA) to work directly with the Federal Bureau of Investigation to train personnel in the handling of crimes committed on cruise ships. “When people take a cruise, they are expecting an experience that will be a highlight of their lives,” Congressman Cummings said. “In the unfortunate event that a crime is committed against one of these people, we need to ensure that the proper foundation is in place to process the incident effectively and preserve the evidence needed to support criminal prosecutions.” Following a related hearing in March that examined the handling of cases of sexual assault aboard cruise ships, today’s hearing provided an update on the status of a voluntary agreement outlining the steps CLIA members follow to report alleged crimes to the FBI and Coast Guard. The agreement also identifies the FBI as the U.S. agency responsible for determining whether to investigate or respond to these allegations. “It became clear during today’s testimony that the FBI simply does not have the resources necessary to provide the type of support necessary to maximize safety and security on cruise ships,” Congressman Cummings said. “I have called upon CLIA to work directly with the FBI to train cruise personnel—particularly with regards to the preservation of evidence protocol. It is especiallly important to ensure that cruise lines are prepared to handle the unique challenge of responding to sexual assaults, and that they are prepared to meet all of the physical and mental health needs of victims.” Additionally, at the March hearing, Congressman Cummings asked CLIA to collaborate with victims of crimes on cruises to discuss specific measures that can be implemented to improve the safety and security of passengers on ships. After receiving a progress report at today’s hearing regarding these discussions, Congressman Cummings requested that CLIA and the victims provide a report within 90 days providing details on specific improvements that will be adopted. The Congressman also applauded actions taken by Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines to improve security and encouraged all members of CLIA to follow suit. These improvements include the ongoing installation of peep holes in ship doors, the expansion of security cameras—including in corridors around cabins, increased numbers of security personnel, and expanded background checks on these personnel. “In order to effectively improve the safety of cruise ships, all parties involved must approach this issue with a pragmatic and reasonable attitude,” Congressman Cummings said. “I believe that significant progress is being made to improve cruise lines, and I will continue to hold these parties accountable to ensure that this progress continues.” ### end text
09.18.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), member of the Joint Economic Committee, joined his colleagues today to pass H.R. 1852, the Expanding American Home Ownership Act of 2007, which will revitalize the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) by enabling it to serve more subprime borrowers at affordable rates and terms, attract borrowers who have turned to predatory loans, and offer refinancing options to struggling homeowners. “Since the beginning of the year, we have watched predatory subprime lending practices have a negative ripple effect on our entire economy,” Congressman Cummings said. “This bill takes a historic step not only in halting the negative impact of the subprime crisis, but also in saving the American Dream of home ownership from becoming a nightmare for millions of families.” Because of current restrictions on the FHA, increasing numbers of borrowers have turned to the subprime mortgage market for loans. However, approximately 1 in 5 of the subprime loans issued in the past two years will go into default, costing 2.2 million families their homes over the next two years. With an estimated 40 percent of current subprime borrowers eligible for fixed-rate loans, strong efforts to assist borrowers could curtail the subprime crisis. H.R. 1852, which passed by a vote of 348-72, aids borrower assistance by: Reforming the FHA to serve more families seeking to buy a home, including those currently forced to borrow from subprime lenders Strengthening protections for higher-risk FHA borrowers Extending FHA-backed loans for homeowners struggling with mortgage payments Increasing affordable housing Enhancing the FHA’s reverse mortgage program for seniors to get cash out of their homes “Every day, hardworking families are being forced into homelessness due to fallout from predatory lending,” Congressman Cummings said. “We must all continue to come together at all levels to protect these families from the parties who are robbing them—not just of their money and homes—but of their hopes and dreams. Today’s bill is just one more step toward achieving that goal.” Congressman Cummings has been a leader in addressing the subprime lending crisis. He introduced the recently-passed House resolution (H.Res.526) to support responsible lending practices and has issued letters encouraging other parties to join his efforts—one to the General Assembly in his home state of Maryland urging them to take action in the upcoming legislative session and one to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke urging him to exercise the Fed’s authority under the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act. The Federal Reserve recently issued guidelines to lenders that encompassed many of the ideals expressed by the Congressman. ### end text
09.17.2007	Baltimore, MD — startwidainctext Today Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) presented the Coppin State University Helene Fuld School of Nursing with a check amounting to nearly $638,000 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Resources and Services Administration. “The Coppin State University School of Nursing is a stalwart in our community, arming our future healthcare leaders with the knowledge and expertise they need to excel in the nursing field,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is my hope that this grant will open the doors of opportunity for many more deserving young people to build fulfilling, rewarding nursing careers.” Today’s check was the first installment of two 3-year grants totaling over $1.7 million. The Advanced Education Nursing Grant will expand the Baccalaureate Nursing Program by 29%, and the Nurse Education Practice and Retention Grant will help continue the expansion of the school’s Family Nurse Practitioner Program from 32 to 52 students and nearly double the annual number of graduates. The Coppin State University Helene Fuld School of Nursing was established in 1974 and offers undergraduate and graduate programs in nursing. It also manages the Community Health Clinic in Baltimore. Graduates of the program are prepared to deliver culturally sensitive health care to diverse populations within an urban environment. Due to limited resources and a faculty shortage, the Nursing School has been forced to turn away hundreds of qualified students in recent years. “As our nation becomes more ethnically and culturally diverse, the need for diversity in the nursing field will be critical,” Congressman Cummings said. “Coppin State University has one of the best nursing programs in the State of Maryland. This funding will enable the school to help more young people fulfill their dreams of becoming nurses and providing care and healing to those in need.” ### end text
09.13.2007	Baltimore, MD — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07) applauded the Maryland Dental Action Committee for the recommendations set forth in its report, Access to Dental Services for Medicaid Children in Maryland, and encouraged Governor Martin O’Malley to fully implement the recommendations presented. “This report gives Maryland the opportunity to become a model for the rest of the country and ensure that every child, regardless of race or economic background, will have access to quality dental care,” Congressman Cummings said. “I am confident that Governor O’Malley will see how critical these recommendations are to protecting the health of our children—one of the most vulnerable groups of our society.” Many of the recommendations made by the committee echoed suggestions from a letter Congressman Cummings sent to Governor O’Malley earlier this year outlining steps that should be taken at the state level to improve access to pediatric dental care. Recommendations from the Congressman with which the Dental Action Committee agreed include: Creating a public education campaign about the importance of dental care Strengthening the dental safety net to ensure that every child has access to a dentist Allowing the state to contract directly with a dental provider, eliminating barriers to dental care Enhancing the dental workforce trained in pediatric dentistry “I am very pleased that the Dental Action Committee was able to provide such comprehensive recommendations,” Congressman Cummings said. “However, I cannot emphasize enough the importance of targeting reimbursement rates toward desired services such as early care and prevention.” Congressman Cummings has been an active leader in the fight to provide pediatric dental access, prompted by the tragic death of Deamonte Driver, a 12-year-old boy from Maryland who died this February when a tooth infection spread to his brain. In addition to reaching out to Governor O’Malley to foster improvement at the state level, Congressman Cummings has also been actively working at the federal level to find a solution to the children’s dental crisis. He introduced Deamonte’s Law, H.R. 2731, to increase dental services in community health centers and train more individuals in pediatric dentistry, and he authored provisions in the re-authorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), part of the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection Act, H.R. 3162. These provisions will expand CHIP by providing critical access to dental care, which is not currently mandated. He has also been working closely with UnitedHealth Group, the insurance company that provided Medicaid coverage to the Driver family. Last month, at the suggestion of Congressman Cummings, UnitedHealth teamed up with the University of Maryland Dental School, providing more than $170,000 annually to enact new services and programs to enhance pediatric dental services in Maryland. “The lack of access to dental care among children cannot be solved with any one action,” Congressman Cummings said. “I have made it my personal mission to tackle this problem on multiple fronts and guarantee that we do everything necessary to produce a solution.” ### end text
09.11.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) released the following statement today regarding the 6th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks: “It is with great sadness that I join our nation today in mourning the lives lost in the horrific attacks on our nation 6 years ago. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families and friends of those who were killed in these attacks, as well as to the heroic first responders who sacrificed their own lives to save the lives of others. “The events that happened on this day in 2001 have altered our daily lives and how we view the world. Not a day passes that we are not reminded of this great tragedy, and as we continue to heal from the pain of losing our loved ones, we must also continue to ensure that such an assault on our nation never occurs again. “I am proud to have worked with this Congress to pass H.R. 1, the bipartisan bill implementing the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. This landmark legislation works to further secure our cities and ports from future terrorist attacks by enacting common sense solutions to address the major security vulnerabilities identified by the Commission. “We must remain vigilant and focused on allocating resources to effectively safeguard our country against future attacks. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to be certain that we are maintaining the proper priorities in this War on Terror.” ### end text
09.10.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined his colleagues to pass H.Res.257, highlighting the need for improved investment in pancreatic cancer research. Congressman Cummings was the lead Democratic sponsor of the resolution. “With people dying an average of three to six months after diagnosis, pancreatic cancer is not just a disease; it is a death sentence,” Congressman Cummings said. “This is simply unacceptable in a society with our level of technology and medical services, and I am proud to have joined my colleagues today calling on an improved investment in research to help give our loved ones a fighting chance.” Pancreatic cancer, which recently took the life of operatic icon Luciano Pavarotti, is the fourth leading cause of cancer death in the United States and the third leading cause of death among 40-59 year-old men; this particularly affects African Americans, whose incidence rate of pancreatic cancer is 40 to 50 percent higher than other ethnic groups. No significant improvement in survival rates has been made in the last twenty-five years, and there are currently no early detection methods and only minimal treatment options available for pancreatic cancer. Only 1.5 percent of the National Cancer Institute’s nearly $4.75 billion cancer research budget for 2006 went toward pancreatic cancer. “It is unfortunate that our commitment to pancreatic cancer research does not match the cancer’s impact,” Congressman Cummings said. “Today’s resolution is the first step in helping the estimated 33,000 Americans who will die of pancreatic cancer this year.” ### end text
09.10.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement regarding today’s joint hearing of the House Armed Services and Foreign Affairs committees on the status of Iraq with General David Petraeus and Ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker: “At today’s hearing on the progress of Iraq, I was disappointed—but not surprised—to spend more than six hours hearing more of the same: ‘there has been some success, but we need more time.’ We have been dealing with moving target deadlines for far too long. Enough is enough. “The purpose of the troop surge was to clear the way for political reconciliation in Iraq. With the GAO reporting that the Iraqi government has met only 3 of the 18 benchmarks to gauge success and reports that overall violence in Iraq has increased since the surge, it is clear that our strategy is not working. This war has cost us more than 3,750 lives and 450 billion taxpayer dollars too many. “While General Petraeus did mention a troop draw down, he offered no guarantees or specific timetables. I find it difficult to regard this as anything more than a symbolic motion to garner public support and justify asking for even more time. “I am further alarmed by Ambassador Crocker seeking support for two significant proposals to create permanent jobs for thousands of Iraqi people. While it is important to help re-stabilize the Iraq economy, it is unfathomable that American people would be asked to spend more tax dollars to employ the Iraqi people while our own unemployment rate in the U.S. is rising. “I cannot comprehend why this Administration is working so hard to create the appearance of success in Iraq, especially as the American people continue to pay heavily. It is time for a new strategy focusing on responsibly redeploying our troops and implementing diplomatic measures to bring about political reconciliation as a foundation for military security. We must begin putting pressure on the Iraqi government to stand on their own. We cannot afford to continuously support an unstable and ineffective government while depriving the American people of their needs here at home.” ### end text
09.07.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) joined his colleagues in supporting the final passage of H.R. 2669, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act, the single largest investment in college financial aid in over 60 years, by a vote of 292-97 in the House and 79-12 in the Senate. The bill will now go to the President for his signature. “This is a landmark investment in our children, our workforce, and our economy,” Congressman Cummings said. “Each year, more than 200,000 students miss out on college because it is unaffordable. Education is a right, not a luxury. We cannot afford to allow the high cost of college to act as a roadblock to our children’s futures any longer.” H.R. 2669 combines key elements from the House and Senate bills passed in July, investing more than $20 billion in college financial aid over the next five years—over $370 million of which will be allocated to Maryland families—at no new cost to taxpayers by reducing excessive federal subsidies to student loan lenders while simultaneously reducing the federal budget deficit by $750 million. Adjusting for inflation, tuition at four-year colleges has increased by nearly 40 percent in the last five years, making it increasingly difficult for families to afford college for their children. H.R. 2669 will reduce interest rates by 50 percent for nearly 70,000 Maryland students and 6.8 million students nationwide who take out need-based student loans—a savings of nearly $5,000 for the typical borrower. Additionally, the bill will increase individual Pell Grant awards by more than $1,000 over the next five years while also increasing the number of eligible students. “This legislation helps clear the path for our nation’s neediest families to achieve the American Dream of receiving a college education,” Congressman Cummings said. “We need to ensure that every child has the opportunity to make this dream a reality.” The bill will also increase federal loan limits, make loan payments more manageable by guaranteeing that borrowers will not have to pay more than 15 percent of their discretionary income on loan repayments, and provide up-front tuition assistance to qualified undergraduate students who commit to teaching in public schools located in high-poverty areas. It also makes a new landmark investment of $510 million over five years in Historically Black Colleges and Universities and other minority institutions. ### end text
09.05.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, following a hearing on structurally deficient bridges in the United States, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, renewed his support for Chairman Oberstar’s National Bridge Plan and called on colleagues to address all of the issues facing the country’s infrastructure. “The National Bridge Plan lays a strong foundation for addressing the infrastructure problems currently plaguing our country, targeting the more than 6,000 structurally deficient bridges on the National Highway System,” Congressman Cummings said. “However, this is just a start. We must address the full backlog of the 70,000 structurally deficient bridges in our country and set in place policies that will bring these critical parts of our infrastructure back into good repair.” Testimony at today’s hearing, scheduled after the collapse of the I-35W Mississippi River bridge in Minneapolis last month, highlighted the problems with structurally deficient highway bridges as well as the inspection process for bridges. The National Bridge Plan, proposed by Chairman Oberstar last month, would provide funding to repair bridges on the National Highway System, which carries 45 percent of our nation’s traffic. Additionally, the plan would improve the bridge inspection regime on the NHS. “There is absolutely no reason why—in the richest country in the world—parents should be afraid to drive their children to school because the infrastructure is crumbling and collapsing around them,” Congressman Cummings said. “It is time for us to address the serious challenges facing our infrastructure, not just with NHS bridges, but with all bridges, tunnels, and roads.” In addition to adequate maintenance of our existing infrastructure, these challenges also include ensuring that our nation’s transportation network meets our nation’s mobility needs. The total number of vehicles on our roadways is projected to increase from 246 million at present to an estimated 400 million by 2055 – and these vehicles are expected to travel some 7 trillion miles in that year. “I urge my colleagues to recommit to investing in our nation’s infrastructure to ensure that a tragedy like the one we saw in Minneapolis never occurs again.” ### end text
09.05.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the statement below following the Committee’s hearing on the United States Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) report on the assessment of the Iraqi government’s record of performance: “Today’s testimony on the GAO’s report showing that only 3 of 18 benchmarks have been met in Iraq has demonstrated that we need more than ever to fully scrutinize our policies and progress in Iraq, as well as our overall strategy in the Global War on Terror. “In particular, during next Monday’s hearing we need to thoroughly question General Petraeus on the different types and variances in the Defense Department’s reporting of sectarian violence in the region. In addition, we must pay close attention to whether or not the success we are seeing in Anbar is transferable to the rest of the country and, if so, to what extent. Furthermore, we must call upon General Petraeus to establish milestones for reaching the eighteen benchmarks, including what needs to be accomplished to meet these goals and how long this process could realistically take. “Mr. Walker’s testimony today posed serious questions about the role of the U.S. in Iraq and the surrounding region, as well as to our overall homeland security and foreign policy goals. These are areas where we cannot afford to be misled by skewed information issued to promote a political agenda. We must recognize the objectivity of the GAO in ascertaining an unbiased assessment of Iraq. “Having received this report, we must now proceed in asking the right questions in order to responsibly re-deploy our troops from a war that should never have been started.” ### end text
09.05.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), joined his colleagues in supporting legislation he co-sponsored, H.R. 3218, to designate part of I-395 in Baltimore as “Cal Ripken Way.” “Cal Ripken, Jr., represents the very best that we have ever seen in the game of baseball and has come to represent the very best of our community by building in our young people the same dedication to excellence that he brought to his career,” Congressman Cummings said. “I can think of no more fitting way to honor the Iron Man than naming the Interstate that passes Camden Yards, where he played his entire career.” Cal Ripken, Jr., played 21 seasons with the Baltimore Orioles, during which time he broke Lou Gehrig’s record for consecutive appearances by playing in 2,632 consecutive games. He finished his career with more than 3,000 hits, including 431 homeruns, and was recently elected to baseball’s Hall of Fame. Since leaving baseball, Ripken has continued to motivate and inspire, dedicating himself to the community. He established and manages the Cal Ripken Baseball Division, and he joined his brother in establishing the Cal Ripken Senior Foundation to give underprivileged youth the opportunity to participate in baseball. “Cal has synchronized his personal character with his physical abilities and has consistently used his extraordinary gifts to make a difference in the lives of others,” Congressman Cummings said. “I thank Congressman John Sarbanes for introducing this legislation, and I thank my colleagues for recognizing the incredible legacy of service on and off the field that Cal Ripken has given not only to the City of Baltimore, but to our nation as well.” ### end text
09.03.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, following President Bush's speech to troops in Iraq, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md) released the following statement: "When he is not trying to distract the American people with scare tactics to divert attention from his failed policies in Iraq, President Bush is taken to staging photo opportunities. This morning's trip to Iraq is no exception. Enough is enough. "As we approach yet another deadline for progress that will not be met on benchmarks that for the most part were established by the President himself during his January address this year, we should expect nothing less from an Administration that has repeatedly tried to avoid acknowledging the truth. "I call upon the President today to stop the games. No more moving target deadlines. No more scare tactics. No more photo opportunities. No more denying the truth. It is time to face the facts and stop spending $10 billion a month on a war we should never have started. It is time to responsibly re-deploy our troops." ### end text
08.31.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement today applauding President Bush’s proposals to ease the country’s mortgage crisis: “Today, President Bush stepped forward to join the fight in easing the mortgage crisis facing our country. The effects of this crisis are not only placing a serious strain on our housing market and overall economy; they are also placing communities at risk as the dreams of millions of families who are facing foreclosure are ripped away. “Every day, hardworking families are being forced into homelessness due to predatory lending in the subprime mortgage industry. We must all come together and protect these families from the parties who are robbing them—not just of their money and homes—but of their hopes and dreams. It is time to save the American Dream from this utter nightmare. “In addition to the common sense proposals introduced today by the President to establish a safety net for families in danger of losing their homes, we must also strengthen safeguards against unscrupulous brokers, including increasing the penalty on brokers who are practicing without a license and imposing a fiduciary duty upon brokers to their customers. Everyone involved in this is getting a chunk of money—the lenders and the brokers—while the owners of these homes are left with nothing. This must come to an end. “Rectifying the subprime lending crisis requires a collaborative effort between the Federal Government, state governments, the Federal Reserve, and other federal regulators, and I look forward to joining my colleagues in Congress as we work closely with President Bush to enact legislation that will help put an end to abuse in the subprime market and ease the effects we are currently witnessing as a result of predatory practices.” Congressman Cummings has been a leader in addressing the subprime lending crisis. He introduced the recently-passed House resolution (H.Res.526) to support responsible lending practices and has issued letters encouraging other parties to join his efforts—one to the General Assembly in his home state of Maryland urging them to take action in the upcoming legislative session and one to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke urging him to exercise the Fed’s authority under the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act. The Federal Reserve recently issued guidelines to lenders that encompassed many of the ideals expressed by the Congressman. end text
08.27.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, following the announcement of the resignation of U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md), released the following statement: "Today we take a step in the right direction toward justice in America. With the resignation of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, we begin the process of restoring credibility to the U.S. Department of Justice. "The tenure of Attorney General Gonzales has been one mired with controversy, ranging from the inhumane treatment of detainees in Guantanamo Bay to illegal wiretapping to accusations of politicized firings of federal prosecutors. The allegations that have been raised against Attorney General Gonzales are very serious and have severely impaired the credibility and the appearance of impartiality in the Justice Department. Any system of law must not only ensure equality and impartiality, but also that there is not even an appearance of unfairness in the system. "I encourage President Bush to be very mindful in choosing a new appointee to replace Attorney General Gonzales. It is critical that a nominee for the position of Attorney General have the credibility to restore the public's confidence in our justice system. "It is my hope that with the departure of Attorney General Gonzales we will also see the departure of the distractions that have been occupying the time and attention of the Justice Department. In particular, I look forward to working with the DOJ on H.R. 933, the Witness Security and Protection Act of 2007, legislation I introduced to assist state and local prosecutors in protecting witnesses from intimidation. To date, crucial elements of this bill have been ignored by the Justice Department. "Americans are dying in our streets every day, but when law enforcement tries to investigate the crimes, no one comes forward. Without witnesses, there can be no justice. With this change in leadership, it is my hope that we will begin focusing on improving the lives of our citizens. We must come together at all levels of government to ensure that our prosecutors have the resources necessary to combat this growing trend. "As we continue to see agents and appointees of the Bush Administration depart, we must come together as a nation to ensure that we move forward to recover from poor judgment and harmful decisions that have been exercised. It must be a top priority to restore credibility and faith in the government." end text
08.23.2007	Baltimore, MD — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, joined Bud Nixon, Chairman of the Private Sector Port Coalition, Katrina Jones with the Maryland Port Administration, and Sharon LeGrand of the Maritime Administration to tour Baltimore City's Maritime Industries Academy and discuss new initiatives to ensure that all students enrolled in the school can explore the growing number of opportunities available in the maritime industry. "Today we saw evidence of the success that can be achieved when committed members of the public and private sectors come together for a common goal," Congressman Cummings said. "This is just the beginning of our effort to ensure that our commitment to provide students of Baltimore City with the opportunities they so greatly deserve is fulfilled." While the Maritime Industries Academy can boast of amazing academic accomplishments-including a 99 percent graduation rate with 85 percent of graduates proceeding to college, impressive attendance rates, and increasing test scores-no maritime coursework was being offered in this maritime-themed school. Congressman Cummings has been working closely with the school's principal, Dr. Marco Clark, leaders of Baltimore's maritime industry, and the new Baltimore City Public School District CEO, Dr. Andres Alonso, to develop programs to fix the deficit in curriculum. Among the initiatives this small coalition is working to achieve: Adoption of a maritime curriculum. A curriculum used at a state maritime college is in the process of being adapted for use in 9th grade classes. Creation of programs to introduce students to maritime career opportunities. A guest lecture series is being developed to bring industry leaders to the school to discuss opportunities within the industry. Additionally, a spring internship program is being established for students in their senior year. Realization of a functioning Junior Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (JROTC) program. On September 1, Chief Warrant Officer Wesley Williams of the Marine Corps will join the school's faculty on a full-time basis to fill one of the two necessary positions to implement an effective JROTC program. "We have outlined the steps that need to be taken to transform the Maritime Industries Academy into a true maritime high school, and we are now making headway in achieving these goals," Congressman Cummings said. "I am very excited about the enthusiasm of Chief Warrant Officer Williams, and I commend his eagerness to serve first as a Marine and now in a classroom setting. This sort of dedication and commitment to the futures of our children-shown by everyone who has been working to address this issue-is sure to turn this school into a great maritime success story." ###
08.22.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Washington, D.C. - Today, following President Bush's speech at the Convention of Veterans of Foreign Wars, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Member of the U.S. House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement urging the President to stop his desperate tactics to justify the Iraq War: "Today, as the President spoke of learning from history, he demonstrated the cycle of historical repetition itself. Looking to the past, as the President suggests, we can see one thing: a continued lack of progress in Iraq, and a continued effort by this Administration to mislead the American people, to divert Americans' attention from the President's failures by instilling fear of terrorist attacks, and to needlessly put at risk the lives of our American soldiers and millions of innocent Iraqi civilians. "I am absolutely appalled that President Bush would try to draw parallels between the struggles we fought in Asia and the current fiasco he has initiated in Iraq. This is an insult to the very veterans whom he was addressing, and it is an insult to our troops who are currently in Iraq. "The President led us into this War under false claims of weapons of mass destruction and the vital need to preemptively strike Iraq to prevent a terrorist attack. As a result, more than 3,700 American troops have died, and millions of Iraqi civilians have been killed or displaced from their homes. "We all know, as the Administration did at the time, that there was no threat from al-Qaeda in Iraq preceding the American invasion. While the President has been funneling our resources into Iraq, amounting to over 10 billion taxpayer dollars a month, we have been receiving reports before the House Armed Services Committee that al Qaeda, utilizing Pakistan as a primary hub, is stronger now than it was before the September 11th terrorist attacks on America. The President's repeated lack of sound judgment and his poor policy decisions have needlessly put lives at risk and have diverted our attention and resources from fighting the real War on Terror. "Our National Guard and important resources are being sent abroad, leaving us vulnerable here at home. My home state of Maryland alone has spent nearly $950 million dollars to fund this War. Our military is stretched thin, and our soldiers are being pushed to their absolute limits, having their tours extended and their time at home with their families reduced. The military has been forced to cut back the amount of time spent on training in order to send troops back to Iraq. I cannot fathom how the President would call this 'supporting' our troops. "It is time for the President to truly support our troops by giving up his stubbornness and responsibly re-deploying them. It is time for the President to stop trying to mislead the American people every time we approach another deadline for progress on benchmarks that for the most part he established himself during his January 2007 address. It is time for the President to change the course in Iraq." ###
08.13.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement today following the announcement of Karl Rove's resignation: "Today, on the heels of the announced resignation of Karl Rove, I am hopeful for the future of our country. "Mr. Rove has been a major influence on what have often been negative, polarizing, impulsive, and disparaging policy decisions by the Bush Administration. The trust of the American people in our government-part of the very fabric of our country-has been strained to the point of near-destruction, and now is the time to begin healing these deep wounds. "It is my deepest hope that with the departure of Mr. Rove, the President will listen to the millions of Americans who want to see our country move in a new direction and in turn re-structure his priorities for the policies of our country. "Among this re-prioritization, the President needs to change the course in Iraq. There is still no end in sight for this crisis, as we witness more political turmoil in Iraq and more deaths of American troops. One can only hope that Mr. Rove's resignation will allow the President to stop the stubbornness and responsibly re-deploy our troops. "I also encourage President Bush to re-direct that stubbornness toward protecting the millions of children and seniors who are suffering right here in the U.S. This includes reconsidering his threat to veto the Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act (CHAMP Act), which would provide quality health care to 11 million children and give seniors greater access to preventive care. "For too long, this Administration has turned its back on the people right here in our back yard and instead pursued interests counter to the will and well-being of the majority of our country. This Administration has been marred with many questionable decisions and practices that have been crafted or deeply influenced by Mr. Rove. I urge President Bush to use this opportunity to implement corrective policies that will place our country back on the right track." end text
08.09.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Following yesterday's announcement that the Coast Guard has awarded funds to Integrated Coast Guard Systems (ICGS) for construction of the third national security cutter (NSC) under the Deepwater Procurement Program, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, urged the Service to follow the requirements set by the recently-passed Integrated Deepwater Reform Act, H.R. 2722, to prevent past failures of the program from being repeated. "The errors we have witnessed thus far in the Deepwater program are unacceptable and simply cannot be repeated," Congressman Cummings said. "While it is important to continue moving forward to rectify past failures, it is absolutely imperative that the Coast Guard take the necessary steps to prevent future disappointments." Yesterday's announcement will provide ICGS, a private sector team comprised of Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman, with $337 million for construction of the third NSC, an addition to the Coast Guard's fleet that is crucial in the Service's ability to carry out increasing responsibilities. An additional $255 million will also be provided for continuation of construction for the first two cutters. Management of the Deepwater Program, a $24 billion, 25-year program through which the Coast Guard will replace or rehabilitate all of its cutters and aircraft, was awarded to ICGS in 2002. Several of the procurements in the program have experienced failures-including the failure of the initial design of a new cutter-that have cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars. "While the Deepwater Program has certainly found itself in 'deep water,' I believe we are entering a new phase," Congressman Cummings said. "I am urging Commandant Thad Allen to use the legislation recently passed in the House of Representatives as a blueprint to outline how to proceed without further disappointments or wasted taxpayer dollars. Particular emphasis should be placed on having an independent, third party certification of the design and construction of this new acquisition." The legislation, the Integrated Deepwater Reform Act (H.R. 2722), was introduced by Congressman Cummings and offers a comprehensive package of reforms to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Coast Guard to manage Deepwater as well as future procurements. Last week, it was approved in the House by a unanimous vote of 426-0. The bill includes provisions that would: end text
08.08.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) and Ms. Alyce Driver joined Dr. Norman Tinanoff, Chairman of the University of Maryland Dental School, and Dr. Allen Finkelstein, Chief Dental Officer of AmeriChoice, a UnitedHealth Group company, for the signing of an agreement between the Dental School and UnitedHealth that is intended to enhance pediatric dental services in Maryland as well as increase access to these services for children from low-income families. The agreement is the first implementation of several recommendations made by Congressman Cummings to UnitedHealth Group following the tragic death of Ms. Driver's son, Deamonte, a young Maryland boy who died earlier this year after a tooth infection spread to his brain. Congressman Cummings has been actively working with UnitedHealth to enact multi-faceted solutions to the dental care crisis for children, including expanding the dental safety net to ensure that every child has a dental home. "The lack of access to dental care among children that led to Deamonte's death cannot be solved with any one action," Congressman Cummings said. "I have made it my personal mission, however, to tackle this problem on multiple fronts to ensure that we do everything necessary to produce a solution. That means working in Congress, working with the state legislature, working with government agencies, working with parents, and working with private health companies." According to the agreement signed today, AmeriChoice will provide the Dental School with more than $170,000 annually to enact new services and programs designed to reduce barriers keeping children from receiving dental care; specifically, the agreement will address the shortage of pediatric dentists and help patients more easily gain access to dentists who are covered by Medicaid. A majority of these funds will be used to: Conduct Mini-Pediatric Dentistry residency programs for ten general practitioners seeking to gain advanced skills in Pediatric Dentistry. Hire a Pediatric Dental Fellow who will provide dental care to underserved and handicapped children on a full-time basis. Hire a Pediatric Dentistry Case Manager to provide on-site case management services for Medicaid patients to help reduce barriers for appointment-keeping. Provide a continuing education program provided for Pediatric and Family Medicine Residents "While Deamonte's death was tragic, it does not have to be in vain. We must all come together to ensure that life comes from this death," Congressman Cummings said. "Today we have reached another great milestone in achieving that goal, and I hope that this agreement will serve as a model to be followed around the country." In addition to facilitating discussions between UnitedHealth and the University of Maryland Dental School, Congressman Cummings also led his colleagues in Congress to include provisions in the recently passed Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act (CHAMP Act) that would provide dental care for 11 million low-income children receiving health coverage through the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). President Bush has been vocal in his threats to veto this legislation; if CHIP is not re-authorized, 6 million children, including 136,000 in Maryland, would lose their health coverage. "It is absolutely unconscionable that the President would be threatening to veto the CHAMP Act and leave millions of children without access to healthcare," Congressman Cummings said. "He needs to begin demonstrating the same stubbornness toward making sure that our children have access to the healthcare they need that he has been exhibiting in spending billions upon billions of our taxpayer dollars in Iraq. He should not turn his back to the children in his own back yard." Congressman Cummings also introduced Deamonte's Law, which would increase dental services in community health centers and train more individuals in pediatric dentistry, and he has encouraged both Governor O'Malley and the Maryland General Assembly to make dental legislation a priority during the upcoming legislative session. "Access to quality healthcare, including dental care, is not a privilege; it is a right," Congressman Cummings said. "No child should be refused that right." ###
08.07.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) released the following statement today following the death over the weekend of Oliver Hill: "Today I join the nation in mourning the loss of one of our country's greatest civil rights activists and leaders. "Oliver Hill has been an inspiration to me as well as to the many other African Americans who have followed in his footsteps. He showed steadfast courage to stand up for what he believed in-for what was right-even in the face of adversity that most would find unendurable. "His contributions to the civil rights movement, whether fighting to ensure that African American teachers receive the same pay as white teachers or fighting to ensure that all students have the same access to a quality education, were monumental in the movement to bring our society to a point where we honor the observance that all men are created equal. "My deepest thoughts and prayers are with Mr. Hill's family during this difficult time, and I hope that his legacy as a visionary leader will provide some relief to all those who are suffering from his loss. He will be deeply missed." ###
08.04.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives to pass landmark energy independence legislation that will reduce rising energy costs to consumers, fight global warming, increase our nation's security, and create new American jobs. The Democratic Energy Independence Initiatives, H.R. 3221 and H.R. 2776, passed by a vote of 241-172 and by a vote of 221-189, respectively. "When the Republicans controlled Congress, they gave billions of dollars in subsidies to the big oil companies while doing little to combat global warming or help consumers cope with rising costs of energy," Congressman Cummings said. "Today, under Democratic leadership, Congress voted to repeal billions of dollars in these giveaways to oil companies and instead invest them in new technologies that will help us become more energy independent, create new jobs, and increase our nation's security." The bills approved by the House today make the largest investment in homegrown biofuels in history and support cutting edge research and the development of new technologies that will bring down energy costs and help create new jobs. Today's legislation also works to bring the U.S. to the forefront as a world leader in the fight to end global warming. The efficiency provisions in this bill alone will reduce emissions by as much as 10.4 billion tons through 2030-more than the annual emissions of all cars on the road in the U.S. today. "The legislation that we pass in Congress sends a message to a future we will never see," Congressman Cummings said. "Today's message clearly states that we will not sell out to large oil companies at the expense of our environment and our earth's longevity." Additionally, today's legislation establishes a short sea shipping program that will identify and develop transportation routes that offer a waterborne alternative to landside transportation-helping to reduce the number of large vehicles on the road emitting pollutants. It would also implement Annex VI to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL Convention), which establishes international regulations that set limits on sulfur oxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from ship exhausts. "As the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, I cannot stress enough the importance of these maritime provisions," Congressman Cummings said. "We often get caught up in focusing on the need to limit emissions from land-based vehicles while ships are now among the most polluting vehicles in transportation." The Democratic Energy Independence Initiative capped a term of remarkable accomplishment and progress for the Democratic-led House of Representatives. Under the Democratic Congress, Americans received the first minimum wage increase in ten years, fiscally responsible spending bills that restore deficit reduction discipline have passed the House, and quality health coverage for millions of children. "As we enter our August recess, I cannot help but reflect on all of the truly remarkable legislation we have passed in the House of Representatives to promote the real priorities of the American people," Congressman Cummings said. "Whether it's protecting our environment, protecting our troops, protecting the health of our children and seniors, or protecting our homeland, the Democrats have repeatedly followed through in their promise to take our country in a new direction." end text
08.02.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Yesterday, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, convened the Subcommittee to examine the Coast Guard's marine safety program. He released the following statement at the conclusion of that hearing: "This is the program that the American public trusts to ensure both that the maritime transportation industry is as safe as possible and that our natural resources are protected from the risks associated with waterborne transportation. Our Subcommittee's responsibility is to ensure that the expectations of our nation are being met. "Our hearing on marine safety was meant to spur the Coast Guard to what I believe is a long overdue examination not only of its management of the marine safety program, but of how the service will balance its traditional missions with its growing responsibilities in the area of homeland security. "I am encouraged by the candor that Admiral Thad Allen, Commandant of the United States Coast Guard, showed during our hearing in discussing the strain that the service is under and the challenges it faces in balancing its limited resources among all of its expanding responsibilities. "Without exception, however, those who testified before the Subcommittee from the maritime industry expressed serious concerns about whether Coast Guard personnel can maintain their technical expertise in marine safety, eliminate delays in the issuance of mariners' credentials, and complete dozens of pending rulemakings. "These problems in the marine safety program are very serious - and they demand urgent resolutions to ensure that the program can effectively regulate the maritime industry without impeding the flow of commerce. "I commend Admiral Allen's decision to name Rear Admiral Brian Salerno to serve as the Assistant Commandant for Marine Safety, Security, and Stewardship. I am confident that Rear Admiral Salerno will bring the expertise and focus necessary to lead the marine safety program in effectively resolving the challenges it currently faces. "I also look forward to receiving the report promised by Admiral Allen to the Subcommittee within 60 days laying out the concrete steps he will take to improve the marine safety program. "It is clear that increasing the number of civilians in the marine safety program will likely be key to strengthening the program, and I look forward to learning from Admiral Allen's report exactly how civilians will be effectively incorporated into the program. I also expect continuing candor from Admiral Allen about the resources he needs to implement the marine safety program. "Too often in the past, Congress has taken action to strengthen marine safety regimes only in response to catastrophes. The goal of our Subcommittee is to take the steps needed now to ensure that the Coast Guard can prevent future catastrophes. "For that reason, I will reconvene the Subcommittee after receiving Admiral Allen's report to examine the findings in the report and to assess the specific steps Admiral Allen is taking to make sure the Coast Guard is prepared to ensure the safety of all aspects of America's 21st century maritime transportation industry." ###
08.02.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, released the following statement following the collapse of Minnesota's I-35W highway bridge over the Mississippi River: "My deepest thoughts and prayers are with the victims and the families of the victims of this truly tragic event. Likewise, I am praying for the families of the men and women who are still missing. The images being shown following this catastrophe are absolutely mind-blowing, and my heart goes out to all who are suffering because of it. "This event causes me great concern. I am concerned about the circumstances surrounding the collapse of the bridge, and I am concerned about how we can ensure this tragedy is never repeated. Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty reported that an assessment was made on this bridge last year. The outcome showed that while there was some fatigue in the bridge, it was not serious enough to require that the bridge be replaced immediately; as a result, the bridge was not slotted for replacement until 2020. This is extremely alarming. "My own state of Maryland has more than 5,000 road bridges, and according to 2005 statistics from the U.S. Department of Transportation, nearly 30 percent of these bridges are deemed structurally deficient or functionally obsolete. Nationwide, that number is nearly 27 percent. This is absolutely unacceptable, and we must ensure that no more lives are put at risk due to poor maintenance of basic infrastructure. Parents should be able to drive home from work or take their children to school without worrying about the interstate collapsing into a river beneath them. "I will be working with Chairman James L. Oberstar and my fellow members of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure to address the concerns surrounding this event in Minneapolis. We need to assess the adequacy of current inspection regimes for bridges and investigate why the number of deficient and obsolete bridges is so high. We also need to evaluate the amount of federal funds being allocated for bridge maintenance and ensure that an adequate amount of funding is being distributed and that the funding is being directed to those bridges in most urgent need of repair. "Additionally, I sent a letter today to the Maryland Department of Transportation requesting a list of the bridges both statewide and in the 7th Congressional District that are currently considered to be structurally deficient or functionally obsolete. I also requested information regarding the State's annual expenditures from all sources on bridge maintenance and what steps the State is taking to bring all of the State's bridges into good repair. "What happened last night in Minnesota is a tragedy, and for the sake of those who are suffering because of that tragedy, we must use this opportunity to examine the circumstances surrounding the event to ensure that it is never repeated." end text
08.02.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), member of the House Armed Services Committee and Readiness Subcommittee, joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 3159, the Ensuring Military Readiness Through Stability and Predictability Deployment Act to enhance our national security and support our troops and their families. "In addition to risking their lives in a war into which they should never have been placed, our soldiers are forced to suffer through multiple deployments with little time to rest or re-train," Congressman Cummings said. "This bill takes steps toward ensuring that our troops are guaranteed the same amount of time at home with their loved ones as they spent in Iraq. This is the least that we can do while the President continues his refusal to change the course in Iraq and redeploy our troops." The bill, which passed by a vote of 229-194, requires that active duty forces are guaranteed that their time at home matches the length of their deployment and expresses the sense of the Congress that the goal should be two years at the service members' home stations to match every one year deployed. It also provides that National Guard and reservists be guaranteed that their time at home is three times the length of deployment and expresses the goal that time spent at rest is five times that of deployment - a goal also previously established by the Department of Defense. "When President Bush took office in 2001, our active duty Army divisions were all at their highest readiness levels, complete with full training and equipment," Congressman Cummings said. "Since the President's invasion of Iraq, our men and women are now overburdened and our military stretched nearly to the breaking point." An estimated 250,000 soldiers in the Army and Marine Corps have served more than one tour in Iraq, and the Defense Secretary announced this spring that all active duty Army soldiers would have their tours in Iraq extended from 12 to 15 months. Nearly 80 percent of the National Guard and Reserves have been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, with an average deployment of 18 months. "Our National Guard and much of its essential equipment have been sent to fight the President's war, rendering our country vulnerable" Congressman Cummings said. "In addition, we are sending these brave men and women right back to war before they have a chance to fully rest. This is unacceptable, and I am proud to have voted to pass this legislation to support our troops and our national security." end text
08.01.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Washington, D.C. - Today, by a vote of 225-205, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 3162, the Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act of 2007 (CHAMP Act). The bill, which contains language authored by Congressman Cummings to expand dental coverage for children, will provide 11 million children with health insurance and improve Medicare benefits for our seniors. "I am proud to have cast my vote in favor of this legislation, which works to protect the health of our children and seniors," Congressman Cummings said. "Access to quality, affordable health care is a right, not a privilege. No one should be denied that right-especially not those who are the most vulnerable." In addition to re-authorizing the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) to prevent 6 million children from losing their health coverage, the CHAMP Act also improves the program to expand access to another 5 million children who are currently eligible for CHIP but not enrolled. Since its creation in 1997, CHIP has received broad bipartisan support and has proven to be a successful program. The CHAMP Act also includes provisions to provide critical access to dental care through CHIP. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report that dental disease is the single most common chronic childhood disease in the country, and tooth decay has actually increased among children in the past decade. "Earlier this year, a young boy from Maryland named Deamonte Driver died after a tooth infection spread to his brain. Forty dollars' worth of dental care could have saved his life, but he did not have access to a dentist," Congressman Cummings said. "We would not accept such gross negligence in our treatment of preventable diseases like Tuberculosis or Smallpox, and we must not accept it for dental disease, either." In addition to protecting access to health care for children, the CHAMP Act also includes provisions to strengthen Medicare, control out of pocket costs for seniors and help ensure seniors have access to the doctors of their choice by stopping a scheduled 10 percent payment cut to doctors. The legislation also ends massive overpayments to private health organizations like HMOs and makes a series of preventative screenings free for Medicare beneficiaries. "The CHAMP Act is truly a victory for our children and seniors, and a victory for all Americans by extension," Congressman Cummings said. "I urge the President to refrain from playing politics with the health of our most vulnerable populations. The millions of children and seniors affected by this bill deserve and demand the care to which they are entitled The CHAMP Act will secure the coverage of 136,000 children currently enrolled in Maryland's CHIP program, increasing allotted funds and allowing it room to reach additional eligible but uninsured children. In addition, more than 230,000 Medicare beneficiaries in Maryland-including seniors and people with disabilities-with incomes under 150% of the poverty level will be helped by improvements in the Medicare Savings Program and Low Income Subsidy Program. end text
08.01.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, released the following statement following the testimony of Former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and other top former and current Pentagon officials regarding the friendly-fire death of Corporal Pat Tillman: "I am extremely disappointed with the testimony heard at today's Congressional hearing. Based on the evidence we have uncovered, it is inconceivable that former Secretary Rumsfeld did not know of the circumstances surrounding Corporal Tillman's death, and both the Tillman family and the American people deserve a better explanation. Secretary Rumsfeld himself said the Tillman family deserved the truth to be delivered in a timely manner. However, two years later, they are still waiting for its delivery. This is simply unacceptable. "In today's hearing, Secretary Rumsfeld attempted to pass off the misinformation surrounding Corporal Tillman's death as unfortunate errors. However, the evidence leaves no plausible explanation for any such errors to have occurred. Today's testimony continues to leave too many questions unanswered. "We know that at least 30 Pentagon officials, including some of the highest-ranking military officials in our government, knew of Corporal Tillman's fratricide before the Tillman family and the American public were notified. We know that a memo was sent highlighting concerns that President Bush's planned remarks on Corporal Tillman's heroism at the upcoming White House Correspondents Association Dinner in May 2005 may be premature, as friendly fire was suspected to be the cause of the Corporal's death; we also know this memo was received days before the President delivered his speech. The implications of these facts are very grave and incredibly disheartening. "Today, retired Gen. John P. Abizaid, former commander of the U.S. Central Command, tried to explain the bungling of the information regarding Corporal Tillman's death, saying, 'People tried to do the right thing, and the right thing didn't happen.' Today's hearing offered a chance for these people to finally step forward and do the right thing-offer plausible explanations for the many questions surrounding Corporal Tillman's tragic death and work toward restoring to our government the integrity that has been all but destroyed by the current Administration. Instead, we continued to hear the tune of 'unfortunate errors.' Unfortunate, indeed." end text
07.31.2007	Washington, D.C. —Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, convened the Subcommittee to examine the Coast Guard's administrative law system. At the conclusion of the hearing, he released the following statement: "Today, the Subcommittee received testimony regarding the Coast Guard's administrative law system from two former Administrative Law Judges (ALJ) suggesting that during their tenure, they worked in an atmosphere that did not support their exercise of judicial independence in the consideration of cases. "Additionally, serious allegations were raised that, if true, would imply that patently improper actions may have been committed to direct an ALJ to decide matters in the Coast Guard's favor. "Such testimony is obviously deeply disturbing and, if true, would suggest that the scales of the Coast Guard's administrative law system are not evenly balanced." The Subcommittee received testimony from Mr. Peter A. Fitzpatrick, Ms. Rosemary Denson, and Ms. Jeffie Massey, each of whom is a former Coast Guard Administrative Law Judge (ALJ); Mr. Abraham Dash, a Professor Emeritus of Law at the University of Maryland School of Law; Mr. William Hewig, an attorney who represents mariners before the Coast Guard's administrative law system; and Rear Admiral Brian Salerno and Captain Thomas Sparks, two senior officers of the United States Coast Guard. "Unfortunately, the Subcommittee was unable to receive testimony from the personnel in the Coast Guard administrative law system who could most directly and authoritatively respond to the allegations that were raised. The Subcommittee hopes to receive such testimony as soon as possible. "However, while discussion of the allegations raised today has not been concluded, any administrative law system must not only ensure that there is no impropriety in the conduct of administrative proceedings but that there is not even the appearance of unfairness in the system. "Coast Guard officers investigate accusations and bring cases against mariners - and even handle appeals of ALJ decisions raised to the Commandant. I believe that the best way to ensure that the administrative law system that considers whether to suspend or revoke a mariner's credential is truly balanced is to separate that system from the Coast Guard. "I look forward to working with the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, Congressman Steven LaTourette (R-OH), to examine the best way that the separation of this system from the Coast Guard can be achieved." startwidainctext end text
07.31.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) announced the award of nearly $415,000 in grants to four Baltimore museums, awarded by the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS). "It is with great pleasure that I announce these grants to four museums in the Baltimore area," Congressman Cummings said. "Maintaining and further developing the culture of our City is a vital goal, and the award of these grants will help us to achieve it." The Museum Grant for African American History and Culture, a $117,000 grant awarded to the Morgan State University Center for Museum and Studies, is intended to provide opportunities for African American museums to design projects that will enhance institutional capacity and sustainability through professional training, technical assistance, internships, outside expertise, and other tools. The University Center will plan and coordinate a series of three workshops and a summer internship program that will focus on museum governance and organizational structure, strategic partnerships for long-term success, and methodologies to maximize the use of available resources. "As a member of the Morgan State University Board of Regents, I was delighted to learn about the summer workshop series that will be made possible through the receipt of this grant," Congressman Cummings said. "This program will do more than just provide students with a foundation in museum theory-it will deeply enrich the experience of these students by offering them the opportunity to understand the African-American museum experience hands-on." In addition to the Grant for African American History and Culture, IMLS awarded three Museums for America Grants to area museums-over $48,000 to the Museum for Contemporary Arts, over $100,000 to the Flag House & Star-Spangled Banner Museum, and $148,000 to the Jewish Museum of Maryland. The grant to the Museum for Contemporary Arts will support community-engaged artist residencies for Los Angeles-based artist Kiana Ford and Chicago-based photographer Dawoud Bey-each bringing a nationally significant contemporary artist to the area to collaborate with members of the community in the profuction of new artwork addressing issues of urban history and identity. The Flag House & Star-Spangled Banner Museum will use grant funds to support the Flag House Family and Community Initiative, designed to increase the understanding of current and potential audiences, expand family offerings, increase activities for neighborhood youth, and raise the museum's visibility with target audiences, particularly African Americans. The Jewish Museum of Maryland will use the IMLS grant to reinterpret the Lloyd Street Synagogue (LSS) in a multicultural perspective following the recent discovery of important research. LSS, the third-oldest synagogue in the U.S., has been home to three different immigrant congregations, both Jewish and Christian. "All four of these museums are implementing programs to celebrate and enhance the rich culture of diversity in Baltimore," Congressman Cummings said. "I am proud to announce these grants and acknowledge the excellent work of these institutions." ###
07.31.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, by a vote of 426-0, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2722, the Integrated Deepwater Reform Act, authored by Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. The legislation will strengthen the management of the Coast Guard's Deepwater procurement program, which has been marred by failures in contractor performance and Coast Guard management. Congressman Cummings released the following statement: "I am pleased that my colleagues joined me with such overwhelming support in passing this bill. H.R. 2722 offers the necessary steps to address the disappointing outcomes from procurements we have witnessed from the Deepwater program up to this point. When we are dealing with the tools used to protect our citizens and our ports-not to mention billions of taxpayer dollars-the errors we have witnessed thus far are unacceptable and simply cannot be repeated. "Coast Guard Commandant Thad Allen has already put in place important corrective actions to address the problems with certain procurements under the Deepwater program. This legislation would build on these actions by putting in place a comprehensive package of reforms to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Coast Guard to manage Deepwater as well as all future procurements. "The men and women of the Coast Guard will rely on the assets procured under Deepwater for decades to come. This is a procurement effort that simply must be managed correctly. It is my hope that H.R. 2722 will set in place the foundation necessary to allow the Coast Guard to rescue Deepwater as effectively as it managed the truly amazing rescues of the victims of Hurricane Katrina in the Gulf Coast. "In passing this measure today, the House of Representatives has demonstrated its commitment to our Coast Guard and to the vital missions it performs in defense of our homeland, to aid those in distress at sea, and to protect our natural resources." end text
07.31.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Tonight, the U.S. House of Representatives is expected to vote on the Integrated Deepwater Program Reform Act, H.R. 2722. The legislation, authored by Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, would strengthen the management of the Coast Guard's Deepwater procurement program-which has been marred by failures in contractor performance and Coast Guard management. "The men and women of the Coast Guard will rely on the assets procured under Deepwater for decades to come," Chairman Cummings said. "This is an effort that simply must be managed correctly - and I am confident that the enactment of H.R. 2722 will help ensure that it is." Management of the Deepwater Program, a $24 billion, 25-year program through which the Coast Guard will replace or rehabilitate all of its cutters and aircraft, was awarded in 2002 through a performance-based contract to a private sector team comprised of Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman, now known as the Integrated Coast Guard Systems (ICGS). Several of the procurements in the program have experienced failures that have cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars-including the failure of the effort to lengthen patrol boats and the failure of the initial designs of a new cutter and an unmanned aerial vehicle. Most recently, the Department of Homeland Security found potential hull problems with the National Security Cutter, the most expensive asset to be procured under Deepwater, which could prevent the ship from meeting contractual requirements. "H.R. 2722 offers the necessary steps to address the disappointing outcomes from procurements we have witnessed from the Deepwater program up to this point," Chairman Cummings said. "When we are dealing with the tools used to protect our citizens and our ports-not to mention billions of taxpayer dollars-the errors we have witnessed thus far are unacceptable and simply cannot be repeated." H.R. 2722 would build on the important corrective actions already being implemented by Coast Guard Commandant Thad Allen by putting in place a comprehensive package of reforms to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Coast Guard to manage Deepwater as well as future procurements. The bill includes provisions that would: Require the Coast Guard to make all technical decisions and require the use of full and open competition for the procurement of new assets. Set rigorous new standards for the testing and certification of all Deepwater assets, including the new National Security Cutter. Require the appointment of a civilian as the head of the acquisitions directorate. Require the Coast Guard to phase out the use of a private sector firm as lead systems integrator by October 1, 2011. "It is my hope that H.R. 2722 will set in place the foundation necessary to allow the Coast Guard to rescue Deepwater as effectively as it managed the truly amazing rescues of the victims of Hurricane Katrina in the Gulf Coast," Chairman Cummings said. "In passing this measure tonight, the House of Representatives will demonstrate its commitment to our Coast Guard - our thin blue line at sea - and to the vital missions it performs in defense of our homeland, to aid those in distress at sea, and to protect our natural resources." end text
07.27.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 2419, the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act (Farm Bill), to make historic investments to support America's farming industry, to clean up the Chesapeake, and to help ensure that all families have access to a healthy, nutritious meal. The bill passed this afternoon by a vote of 231-191. "This legislation is monumental in so many different areas. It is a true accomplishment for this 'New Direction' Congress, as well as for both American producers and consumers," Congressman Cummings said. "Today, we have taken the necessary steps to preserve farming for future generations, and we did it in a fiscally responsible way." H.R. 2419 imposes real payment limitations that crack down on subsidies and saves more than a half billion dollars, redirecting funds to the people who need it the most: working family farmers and ranchers; it also includes new transparency rules to ensure that Americans know that taxpayer dollars are getting to the family farmers who need them-not to large farms controlled by corporations. Additionally, the bill-for the first time-guarantees $1.5 billion in funding for fruit and vegetable programs. Additionally, the legislation includes critical provisions to help fight global warning and make our nation energy-independent through investments in renewable energy programs and production incentives for ethanol and biodiesel made from agricultural, forest, and waste plant materials. It also, for the first time, allocates extensive, sweeping funding to clean up the Cheasapeake Bay and the greatly-needed Watershed Rehabilitation Program, which will benefit Maryland, amongst other states. The Farm Bill also makes vital expansions to the nutrition programs that help 35 million low-income families. For the first time in thirty years, the Food Stamp Program's minimum benefit will be increased and indexed for inflation, and the funding for the Emergency Food Assistance Program will be nearly doubled so that food banks, soup kitchens, and other emergency feeding sites have needed resources. The Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Snack Program will also be expanded to all fifty states, allowing all children the opportunity to eat healthfully. "The progress made for socially disadvantaged farmers and low-income families who rely on the Food Stamp Program to feed their families is a great first step toward helping the hardworking people who need it the most," Congressman Cummings said. "Our enhancements to the Food Stamp Program will affect more than 313,000 Marylanders, nearly 108,000 of whom are from Baltimore. Although there was a lack of adequate funding to do as much as we had hoped in these areas, I will continue to work with my colleagues to improve these programs." Today's legislation, while supported by a broad range of farming organizations, key commodity organizations, conservation organizations, and organizations for children, is under threat of a veto from President Bush. "I would encourage the President to stop standing in the way of investing in the right priorities for American families," Congressman Cummings said. "Our legislation makes essential investments in our country's future in a fiscally responsible way." end text
07.27.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, joined his colleagues in passing H.R.1, the bipartisan bill implementing the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. The bill, which addresses the major security vulnerabilities identified by the Commission, passed by a 371-40 vote. "Today, we took a significant step in our War on Terror by strengthening and protecting our homeland and our families," Congressman Cummings said. "I am relieved that, under Democratic leadership, we were finally able to unite and implement the common sense recommendations of the bipartisan, independent 9/11 Commission." Among the many homeland security protections in the bill is a provision that would require the screening of all cargo bound for the United States. Currently, less than 5 percent of the 11 million containers delivered to U.S. ports are inspected upon arrival. The new policy would be gradually implemented to ensure no disruption in the flow of commerce. In addition to strengthening maritime security, the bill would strengthen security for public transportation, aviation, and the transportation of hazardous materials. "As the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, I cannot stress enough how important it is to screen every single piece of cargo coming into our ports," Congressman Cummings said. "With this legislation, we achieved a reasonable balance that will protect the business of our merchants while simultaneously protecting our homeland." The bill will now be sent to the President for his signature. Congressman Cummings urges him to sign it into law, particularly in the wake of recent reports indicating that al-Qaeda is stronger than before 9/11 and that the U.S. remains vulnerable to future attacks. "Instead of utilizing our time and resources to secure our ports and borders from attacks, President Bush has been spending $10 billion a month in Iraq, despite opposition from the majority of Americans," Congressman Cummings said. "While the President continues to put American lives at risk with his divisive politics, Congress was able to come together to pass this bipartisan legislation to establish real safeguards against future attacks on American soil." end text
07.27.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings today requested a meeting with Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to discuss the critical issue of witness intimidation and the Witness Security and Protection Act of 2007, H.R. 933, which was introduced by the Congressman (see attached letter). Congressman Cummings said: "Witness intimidation is a serious problem, not just in my District in Baltimore, but in cities around the country. Prosecutors everywhere are being put in the difficult situation of having to choose between funding investigations and funding costly witness protection programs. In many jurisdictions, prosecutors are unable to offer any witness protection at all. When we have law enforcement officials in this sort of position, nobody wins but the criminals. "Known murderers walk the streets everyday because we lack the evidence necessary to bring them to justice. Improving protection for state and local witnesses will move us one step closer toward alleviating the fears of and threats to prospective witnesses and help to safeguard our communities from violence. "While we cannot bring back all those who suffered in the face of witness intimidation, we can honor their sacrifice by trying to prevent future tragedies. That is why I have introduced the Witness Security and Protection Act of 2007-and why I am urging Attorney General Gonzales to support my efforts." The text of the letter requesting the meeting: July 27, 2007 The Honorable Alberto GonzalesAttorney GeneralDepartment of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Mr. Gonzales: I write today to request a meeting with you to discuss the urgent need for stronger state and local witness protection programs, through passage of the "Witness Security and Protection Act of 2007," H.R. 933. Recent tragic events of alleged witness intimidation in Baltimore City and across the country require that action be taken now. Today, the murder rate in Baltimore reached a resounding 178, and is headed to surpass 300 by the end of the year for the first time since the 1990s. As you know, far too often these murder cases are closed without resolution because witnesses fear retaliation. Their fear is well-founded. In just the past month, a Baltimore witness to a first-degree murder trial was killed in a drive-by shooting in front of his home while a 10-year-old girl watched. A little over a week later, a 16-year-old murder witness in a murder case was moved from the City due to mounting threats. The teenager was beaten the day after the murder occurred, and was recently threatened by three girls, one of whom brandished a gun. Ours is not the only city plagued by this terrorism at home. Tragedies like these are occurring in communities across the country. While most of the information we have regarding the prevalence of witness intimidation is anecdotal, due to the nature of the crime, we know that it is widespread. The National Center for Victims of Crime recently teamed up with the Massachusetts Office of Public Safety to survey young people across the state regarding gang violence and intimidation. The study, called "Snitches Get Stitches," found that an alarming amount of survey participants-1 in 4-said they and their neighbors would not report a gang-related crime, and nearly 65% of them said this was due to fear of being beaten up or killed. We simply must provide our local law enforcement officials with the tools they need to protect witnesses so that justice may be served. That is why I have introduced the "Witness Security and Protection Act of 2007," H.R. 933, which would authorize $90 million in competitive grants per year for the next 3 years to establish a short-term witness protection program within the United States Marshals Service (USMS). As you know, concerns have been raised by the USMS with regards to the implementation of this law and I look forward to the opportunity to work out these concerns with you. I will make my schedule available to you to discuss this vitally important issue. Please contact Ms. Danielle Grote in my office at (202) 225-4741 with questions or to set up a meeting. I appreciate your personal attention to this request. Sincerely, Elijah E. CummingsMember of Congress end text
07.25.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Following today's hearing on the subprime lending crisis, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a member of the Joint Economic Committee, renewed his call for his colleagues to join him in taking steps for substantive action to curb predatory lending in the subprime market. The hearing highlighted the economic impact of foreclosures caused by subprime loan defaults on local communities. "By the end of 2006, there were 2.6 million subprime loans. One in five of these will result in families losing their homes to foreclosure. Because they are so substantially high and pose such a risk to our economy, it is easy for us to get lost in the numbers of the subprime lending crisis," Congressman Cummings said. "Today's hearing was an important reminder that this is about more than just numbers-it is about protecting hardworking Americans from being robbed by predatory lenders who are abusing the system." The hearing today featured testimony from two Ohio residents who were victimized by subprime lenders. Local leaders from Cuyahoga County, which experienced more than 13,000 foreclosures last year alone, credited being particularly hard-hit by this crisis because of a lack of government regulation of the industry-particularly at the state level. "Not a morning passes that I do not read an article in the paper about the threat the subprime market is imposing on our overall economy," Congressman Cummings said. "It is critical that we all come together-the state and federal governments and regulatory agencies such as the Federal Reserve-to enact substantive policy to start regulating this industry." In an effort to bring about such cooperation, Congressman Cummings introduced the recently-passed House resolution (H.Res.526) to support responsible lending practices and issued letters-one to the General Assembly in his home state of Maryland urging them to take action in the upcoming legislative session and one to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke urging him to exercise the Fed's authority under the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act. The Federal Reserve recently issued guidelines to lenders that encompassed many of the ideals expressed by the Congressman. "I applaud Chairman Bernanke for issuing guidelines to regulate predatory practices in the subprime market, but I am troubled that these guidelines are just that-guidelines. They are merely suggested practices and lack the teeth necessary to put an end to this abuse," Congressman Cummings said. "Everyone involved in this is getting a chunk of money-the lenders and the brokers-and the owners of these homes are left with nothing. It is time for Congress to take a stand and protect these hardworking families from the thieves who are robbing them-not just of their money and homes-but of their hopes and dreams. Let's save the American Dream from this utter nightmare." end text
07.25.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), a senior member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, sent a letter (see below) reminding FEMA Administrator R. David Paulison that until tested for formaldehyde contamination, every FEMA trailer should be considered extremely dangerous and therefore should not be donated or sold. Congressman Cummings, who investigated the issue of contaminated FEMA trailers in a July 19 hearing of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee and who prompted Mr. Paulison to take action notifying trailer residents in the Gulf region of the risks of formaldehyde, released the following statement: "Administrator Paulison was at our hearing last week and, like the rest of us, he heard the heart-wrenching testimony of a mother describing her young daughter's serious health conditions caused by the formaldehyde in these trailers. These trailers are not fit for human occupation, and Mr. Paulison must cease and desist putting people's health at risk. "While I applaud the Administrator's efforts to quickly notify current trailer residents about formaldehyde exposure, I do not feel that he has put forth this message with the appropriate amount of urgency that is warranted. It is shocking to the conscience that, knowing the serious health risks associated with formaldehyde, FEMA would be working to find new families to purchase these trailers. They should be working instead to find a safe way to dispose of the trailers and prevent injury to more families. "Mr. Paulison repeatedly talked about 'hindsight' at last week's hearing. Now he is faced with the opportunity to exercise foresight, and up to this point he is neglecting to take any positive action. It is time for FEMA to admit fault in putting people in these conditions and start working to find safe solutions. FEMA should not be creating another storm for people who purchase these or receive them from a donation." The text from the letter: July 25, 2007 R. David PaulisonAdministratorFederal Emergency Management Agency500 C Street S.W.Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Mr. Paulison: I am writing to remind you that, as we learned in a July 19 hearing of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, trailers issued to residents of the Gulf Coast region by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that are contaminated with formaldehyde are extremely dangerous. For this reason, I strongly urge that your agency immediately take action to ensure that none of these trailers will be sold or donated-either to their current inhabitants, or other potential buyers. You were present when Dr. Scott Needle of the American Academy of Pediatrics testified that formaldehyde exposure can result in a long list of illnesses, including eye, skin, and respiratory tract irritation. In addition, he testified that "studies since 1990 have found higher rates of asthma, chronic bronchitis, and allergies in children exposed to elevated levels of formaldehyde ... [and] formaldehyde [is classified] as a carcinogen." According to standards set by the Environmental Protection Agency, any exposure for more than eight hours to more than .9 PPM of formaldehyde could result in permanent damage. The one trailer that FEMA tested was found to be contaminated with 1.2 PPM of formaldehyde. Any trailer contaminated to that extent is not fit for human occupation-not for the citizens of the Gulf Coast, and not for anyone. Again, I strongly urge that FEMA refrain from selling or donating any trailers that have not been thoroughly tested for formaldehyde and found to be safe. Anything less would be a serious act of negligence on the part of FEMA, given what we know about the potential harm. Thank you for your personal attention to this matter. Sincerely, Elijah E. CummingsMember of Congress end text
07.20.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Last night, Congressman Cummings joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives to support investments in education, health care, and vital scientific research with the Fiscal Year 2008 Labor, Health Human Services and Education Appropriations Bill, H.R. 3043. "The priorities of the American people were neglected far too long under the Republican Congress," Congressman Cummings said. "This bill will move us closer to ensuring that every Maryland child has access to the tools that will allow them to achieve the American Dream. We can put them on the path to success by providing quality health care and education." The bill, which was approved by a 276-140 vote, will: Make college more affordable by increasing the maximum Pell Grant to $4,700, which will benefit over 5.5 million low- and middle-income students over the next two years. Help raise the achievement levels of America's students by providing $2 billion over 2007 and $1 billion over the President's request for No Child Left Behind programs. Expand access to health care for the uninsured by investing in initiatives that will provide new access to health care for more than 2 million uninsured Americans. Invest in life-saving medical research by providing a $750 million increase for the National Institutes of Health. In addition the bill would bring funding to the following projects in Maryland, at the request of Congressman Cummings: $250,000 to the Park Heights Redevelopment Workforce Development Initiative $150,000 to the Howard Community College Radiologic Technology Program $75,000 to the Coppin State University School of Nursing $450,000 to the International Center for Spinal Cord Injury at Kennedy Kreiger While the legislation offers increased funding for key priorities, its overall pricetag after adjusting for inflation and population is $2.9 billion below similar legislation passed by the Republican Congress and signed into law by President Bush in 2004. "As Democrats, we have been true to our promise to focus on the priorities of the American people, and we are doing it in a fiscally responsible way," Congressman Cummings said. "H.R. 3043 is another example of the success of this 'New Direction Congress.'" end text
07.19.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, released the following statement today following the death of former Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Owen J. Siler: "Today, I join the Coast Guard in mourning the loss of one of its most influential and respected leaders, former Commandant Admiral Owen J. Siler. Through his relentless dedication, Admiral Siler changed the face of the Coast Guard from one of a search and rescue mission to the modern, multi-mission organization that it is today. "It is with great respect that I commend the Admiral's pivotal efforts to expand the membership of the Coast Guard through the institution of a minority recruitment program and the expansion of opportunities for women. During his tenure, the Service experienced a substantial increase in minorities as well as the first female to attend flight school. "In addition to his work to increase diversity, I applaud the Admiral's monumental work in expanding the law enforcement and drug interdiction missions of the Coast Guard. Through increased cooperation with the Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Customs Service, the Coast Guard was able to make substantial gains in the seizure of vessels trafficking narcotic drugs-successes on which the Service is still building today. "Admiral Siler's four years of service as Commandant brought with them significant changes for the Coast Guard, and I sincerely hope the legacy left behind by this great man offers some comfort to his family in this time of mourning." end text
07.19.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext In a hearing of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), a senior member, requested twice that Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator R. David Paulison notify all displaced residents recovering from Hurricane Katrina of their potential exposure to formaldehyde from trailers provided by the federal relief agency. In response to these requests, the Administrator agreed, under sworn testimony. "It is bad enough that so many families had to endure the disaster wrought by Hurricane Katrina," Congressman Cummings said. "And it is absolutely unacceptable that their lives continue to be disrupted by this new disaster-FEMA's subpar efforts at recovery." Three witnesses testified to the dangerous conditions in which their families were living in FEMA trailers-and to FEMA's failure to respond to toxic concerns. One witness, Lindsay Huckabee, highlighted the nightmare of her four-year-old daughter's experience with the formaldehyde exposure, which resulted in recurrent nosebleeds, sometimes occurring as frequently as three times a week, countless ear infections, and several instances of pneumonia-two of which required hospitalization. "We heard testimony from a mother who remembered once coming home to find her daughter, hand-over-face, covered in blood-and realizing she was not disturbed because it had become normal," Congressman Cummings said. "This is not normal, and it is inexcusable that families, particularly children, were placed into such adverse conditions." Pediatrician Scott Needle, MD, FAAP, spoke of the health conditions he witnessed in patients exposed to formaldehyde, including sinus infections, ear infections, colds, and other respiratory symptoms. "In talking with these families, I found that they all shared two common characteristics," Dr. Needle said. "First, they were all living in trailers provided by FEMA. Second, these families reported that their symptoms started not long after moving into these trailers." After repeated requests from Congressman Cummings, Administrator Paulison pledged to notify families of their potential exposure to high levels of formaldehyde. "This is absolutely unacceptable," Congressman Cummings said. "We have tens of thousands of families who are unknowingly exposing themselves to these adverse health conditions, and they have a right to know about this risk and about what they need to do to fix it." In addition to notifying residents of the potential exposure to formaldehyde, Administrator Paulison also agreed to Cummings' request to educate families on symptoms of exposure and actions to take to address the problem-including ensuring that there are enough people on staff to answer people's calls and that callers would not be given a "run-around." "I am deeply troubled by FEMA's failure to act thus far, but I am encouraged by Administrator Paulison's commitment today," Congressman Cummings said. "We will follow up to ensure that he fulfills his promise and that all of our citizens living in the Gulf Coast region are adequately protected as they continue their struggle to recover from this terrible tragedy." ###
07.18.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) led more than 60 colleagues in urging that dental coverage be guaranteed under the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) reauthorization and offered three low- to no-cost dental initiatives that would result in tremendous improvements in children's access to dental care. Spurred to action by the tragic, dental disease-related death of 12-year-old Marylander Deamonte Driver, Congressman Cummings has been adamant in efforts to improve children's access to dental care. He joined Republican Rep. Mike Simpson of Idaho, a former dentist, in circulating a "Dear Colleague" letter to the Energy and Commerce Committee requesting that the SCHIP bill include a mandatory dental benefit (see attached). "Because of our failures, dental disease is the single most common chronic childhood disease in this country," Congressman Cummings said. "We have the tools at our fingertips to solve this problem-but we refuse to use them." In addition, Congressman Cummings is working to include low-cost provisions in SCHIP that would significantly improve access to dental care. The first would improve access to care at community health centers; the second would streamline state contracting practices; and the third would educate new mothers on the importance of oral health. "Deamonte Driver could have been saved with $40 worth of dental care, but he was poor and homeless and he never made it into the dental chair," said Congressman Cummings. "We would not accept such gross negligence in our distribution of preventable illnesses like Tuberculosis or Smallpox, and we must not accept it for dental disease either. That is why we must include a mandatory dental benefit in the SCHIP reauthorization." The following is the text from the letter: July 17, 2007 The Honorable John D. Dingell Chairman, Energy and Commerce Committee 2125 Rayburn Office BuildingWashington DC 20515 The Honorable Joe BartonRanking Member, Energy and Commerce Committee 2322A Rayburn Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Dingell and Ranking Member Barton: We support a guaranteed dental benefit in the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and are writing to urge you to include this provision in the Committee's reauthorization legislation. Good oral health is an essential component to one's overall health and therefore, critical for our nation's children. Tooth decay remains the most pervasive, chronic disease among children in our country. Children ages 2 to 5 are experiencing a rise in tooth decay 4 in 10 children ages 6 to17 have untreated tooth decay 1 in 10 children has an urgent need for dental care due to pain and infection; and Dental problems cause more that 850,000 missed school days annually. However, tooth decay is easily preventable provided that children receive early treatment and prevention. A guaranteed dental benefit within SCHIP would ensure that children have access to cost-effective dental care and are not left without these essential services during economic downturns. All 50 states have recognized the importance of including dental coverage to SCHIP, and they currently do so; however, without a federal policy guaranteeing the benefit, such coverage is in jeopardy. When a state stops providing dental benefits because they are optional services it leaves SCHIP-eligible children and their families with little affordable options for oral health care. Furthermore, studies have shown that when SCHIP eliminates dental benefits, many children will go to hospital emergency rooms resulting in higher costs and less treatment. According to an Ohio study, the cost for treating a Medicaid patient in a dentist office for an extraction of an abscessed tooth would total $78 and result in resolution of the problem. If that patient sought treatment in an emergency room the cost would be $307, not including a necessary extraction which would require further treatment. Good oral health is integral to overall health, and children deserve the same access to oral health care in SCHIP as other essential services. Providing routine and emergency dental care to SCHIP-eligible children ultimately results in better, more thorough and less costly care. We urge you to support a guaranteed dental benefit in SCHIP reauthorization legislation. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings, Michael K. Simpson, et al. end text
07.18.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Cummings applauds the action announced yesterday by federal agencies and state regulators to conduct targeted consumer-protection compliance reviews of lenders with significant subprime mortgage operations, and he urges the Maryland state legislature to join in his push to stop predatory lending within this market. "Every day, families are being forced into homelessness due to predatory lending in the subprime mortgage industry. It will take collaborative efforts between the Federal Reserve, other federal regulators, and state governments to put an end to this abuse," Congressman Cummings said. "This pilot program is one more step in addressing a growing national problem." Yesterday's announcement coincided with a letter Congressman Cummings sent to Maryland State Senate President Mike Miller urging him to consider legislation in the General Assembly to help regulate subprime lending and minimizing possibilities for abuse among predatory lenders (see attached). The letter suggests requiring notice be given to homeowners prior to the initiation of foreclosure proceedings and guaranteeing a borrower's right of redemption, which would allow families the opportunity to resolve the situation before finding themselves without a home. "I know the Maryland General Assembly will have many pressing issues to address during the upcoming session, but it is essential that homeownership, family, and community stability are protected in Maryland," Congressman Cummings said. "The increase in predatory practices within the subprime market is a problem affecting families all across the country, but it has been particularly noticeable here in Maryland, which currently ranks 22nd nationally in home foreclosures compared to last year's ranking of 40th. This is unacceptable, and it is a burden both on those being pushed out of their homes and on our overall housing market." In addition to establishing a safety net for families in danger of losing their homes, Congressman Cummings also suggested strengthening safeguards against predatory brokers, including increasing the penalty on brokers who are practicing without a license and imposing a fiduciary duty upon brokers to their customers. Last week, Congress passed H. Res. 526, a resolution introduced by Congressman Cummings calling for the enforcement of rules to eliminate unfair and deceptive practices and establishing minimum standards for lenders. The resolution passed only days after the Federal Reserve announced guidelines for lenders, following a letter sent by Congressman Cummings and signed by several of his colleagues in the House urging Chairman Ben Bernanke to exercise the Fed's authority and regulate the subprime lending industry under the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act. ###
07.17.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 980, the bi-partisan Public Safety Employer-Employee Cooperation Act, which he co-sponsored and which would provide police officers, firefighters, and other public safety officers with collective bargaining rights without undermining state authority. "For the past twelve years, this legislation has been blocked by the Republican-controlled Congress," said Congressman Cummings. "Today marks a landmark victory for the hardworking public safety officers who risk their lives daily to protect our families and ensure a safe environment." The bill, which was blocked by GOP leadership every year from 1995 through 2006, has strong bipartisan support, including 70 Republican House co-sponsors. It would offer basic collective bargaining rights-including the right to bargain collectively over hours, wages, and terms and conditions of employment-by establishing minimum standards for the states without undermining state authority or existing state laws. Because of the vital responsibilities of the public safety community, the bill specifically prohibits public safety officers from engaging in strikes against their employers and employers from engaging in lockouts of employees. "Following the attacks on America on September 11th, 2001, we have been asking our public safety officers to take on even more responsibility in protecting our homes and our families. These men and women are heroes, and they deserve the basic rights to seek better wages and benefits," Congressman Cummings said. "I am proud that this Congress-under the new Democratic leadership-has finally granted them that right." end text
07.17.2007	Baltimore, MD — startwidainctext Today, on the steps of the Clarence M. Mitchell, Jr., Courthouse, where city residents are often afraid to appear as witnesses to testify in criminal cases, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) joined Baltimore City State's Attorney Patricia C. Jessamy to call on the federal government for additional resources to help Baltimore's struggle against witness intimidation. "Violent retaliation against witnesses and informers threatens the very fabric of our criminal justice system. Known murderers walk the streets everyday because we lack the evidence necessary to bring them to justice," Congressman Cummings said. "Thankfully, witness protection programs can provide law enforcement with an indispensable tool in combating crime and addressing witness intimidation." Today's press conference comes two years after the issue of witness intimidation in Baltimore was initially addressed by Congressman Cummings and State's Attorney Jessamy. "Two years ago, I said Baltimore was in the midst of the worst public safety crisis that I have seen in my years as State's Attorney," said State's Attorney Patricia C. Jessamy. "And today, I am sorry to report, not much has changed. The 'Conspiracy of Silence' continues to thwart justice for our citizens; witnesses are silenced, and many refuse to carry out their civic duty. When citizens live in fear, the thugs and terrorists win. We cannot let that happen." Prompted by the situation in Baltimore, Congressman Cummings introduced H.R. 933, the Witness Security and Protection Act of 2007, which would establish a Short Term State Witness Protection Program in the U.S. Marshals Service to provide protection for witnesses in state and local trials involving homicide or other major violent crimes. The legislation would also authorize the U.S. Attorney General to make grants available to eligible prosecutor's offices for the purpose of providing witness protection. Under current law, non-federal witnesses can participate in the federal witness protection program under certain conditions; however, states are required to reimburse the federal government for the cost providing protection unless a waiver is granted. Yesterday, Congressman Cummings sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales urging his immediate assistance to strengthen witness protection in Baltimore City by providing increased protection from the U.S. Marshals Service (see attached). The letter was prompted by recent incidents of apparent witness intimidation, including the killing of a key witness in a first-degree murder trial who was the victim of a drive-by shooting in front of his home in the presence of a 10-year-old girl. "Our state and local prosecutors often find themselves faced with the choice of funding investigations or funding costly witness protection programs-which often leads to some jurisdictions providing no protection at all," said Congressman Cummings. "No one wins in this situation, which is why H.R. 933 is such an essential piece of legislation." The following is the text from the letter to Attorney General Gonzales: July 16, 2007 U.S. Attorney General Alberto GonzalesU.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Gonzales: I write today to urge your immediate assistance to strengthen witness protection in Baltimore City by providing increased protection from the United States Marshals Service (USMS). I have learned that during a recent meeting with Baltimore City State's Attorney Patricia Jessamy, you advised her that you would look into providing this protection. However, because of recent tragic events of alleged witness intimidation in Baltimore, it is imperative that action be taken now. On July 2, 2007, a key witness in a first-degree murder trial was killed in a drive-by shooting in front of his home in the presence of a 10-year-old girl. Today, Baltimore officials announced that a 16-year-old witness in a murder case was moved from the City due to mounting threats. The teenager was beaten the day after the murder occurred, and was recently threatened by three girls, one of whom brandished a gun. Tragedies like these are occurring in communities across the country. That is why we must provide our local law enforcement officials with the tools they need to protect witnesses so that justice may be served. In order to address this growing problem that has, in effect, stalled our justice system, I introduced the "Witness Security and Protection Act of 2007," H.R. 933. This legislation would authorize $90 million in competitive grants per year for the next 3 years to establish a short-term witness protection program within the United States Marshals Service (USMS). In an attempt to pass the best legislation possible, On May 24, 2007, I convened a meeting with representatives from your office and Ms. Jessamy to address concerns the Department of Justice (DOJ) raised with regard to the legislation. Following that meeting, your representatives advised they would develop an alternate proposal and I readily agreed to review it. Unfortunately, no proposal has been developed. Further, these staff members indicated that they oppose any new grant program to be administered by DOJ. As you can imagine, I was deeply disappointed to learn of this fact. Given that the USMS provides protection for several other countries around the world, I find it unconscionable that communities under siege in the United States would not be provided the same level of committed resources. The recent examples in Baltimore offer clear evidence that our communities desperately need the enhanced witness protection that the USMS has available. It is my hope that you will reconsider the position of DOJ and that you will work with me to help develop a program that will provide the greatest protection possible for citizens who agree to cooperate with law enforcement in combating crime. In the meantime, I ask that you respond to the request of Ms. Jessamy with a sense of urgency. I appreciate your personal attention to this request. Sincerely, Elijah E. CummingsMember of Congress ###
07.13.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), announced the award of the next installment of federal support for Morgan State University's National Center for Transportation Management, Research, and Development. This funding, which totals $1 million for fiscal year 2007, is part of $4 million in support funding authorized for Morgan by the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2005: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). Morgan's funding is part of a larger funding program provided by the United States Department of Transportation (USDOT) to five universities that conduct research and provide educational opportunities in the field of transportation. Congressman Cummings said, "As a senior member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and a member of the conference committee that produced the SAFETEA-LU bill in 2005, I worked closely with then-Senator Paul Sarbanes, Maryland's other conferee, to secure this funding to support Morgan State University's USDOT-designated University Transportation Center. "This funding will support the fellowships that Morgan offers to students enrolled in its transportation-related degree fields. This funding will also provide critical support to the University's on-going research on the transportation challenges that confront not only the State of Maryland but our entire nation, including research on innovative methods of reducing highway congestion, expanding the use of intelligent transportation systems, and improving pedestrian safety - particularly in urban environments. "As a Member of the Board of Regents at Morgan, I see first-hand how the university's cutting-edge transportation programs are giving students unique opportunities to participate in applied research activities as they complete studies that will prepare them for successful careers in all facets of our nation's transportation industry. Morgan's University Transportation Center is an invaluable resource for our State and our nation and I know that the funding they are receiving through the federal transportation program will enable the Center to continue to expand the opportunities it can provide to its students at both the graduate and undergraduate levels." ###
07.13.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Last night Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 1851, the Section 8 Voucher Reform Act of 2007, which would overhaul the vital Section 8 program that provides assistance to about 2 million families nationwide each year who are struggling to afford housing. "Over the past several years Maryland families have been faced with serious problems due to affordable housing shortages as they grapple with increased rents and stagnant wages," Congressman Cummings said. "The Section 8 program is often the last safety net before very low-income families fall into homelessness, and I am pleased that this new Congress has addressed the areas within the program that have been in need of improvement for far too long." The Section 8 program provides a subsidy for families to pay the difference between what they can contribute to their total rent; however, no funds have been allocated for additional vouchers since 2002, preventing new families from being able to join the program. In Baltimore, which houses the fifth largest public housing agency in the country, nearly 18,000 families participate in the program and nearly 10,000 are on waiting lists. "In these increasingly difficult times, thousands of Baltimore and Howard County families have been denied assistance to obtain affordable housing because the Section 8 program has not received the funds necessary to meet demand in the past five years," Congressman Cummings said. "H.R. 1851 would authorize 20,000 new vouchers each year for the next five years. While this is only a first step in solving the problem, it is a very important and essential step." In addition to authorizing new vouchers, the bill also addresses administrative issues that leave the program susceptible to waste and fraud, requires the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to establish fair market rents, requires the Secretary of Housing to establish performance standards and assessments of public housing agencies, and establishes a new funding method and evaluations for the Family Self-Sufficiency Program, which provides work support and deposits a tenant's rent contribution into an escrow account to be applied to a new home down payment. "No family should be denied access to quality, affordable housing," Congressman Cummings said. "By administering major improvements to the Section 8 program with this legislation, Congress is helping to make affordable housing a reality for all who need it." end text
07.12.2007	Washington, D.C. — Today, following a press conference by President Bush releasing a White House report on the eighteen benchmarks established to measure progress in Iraq, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, urged his colleagues to join him in passing H.R.2956, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act. The legislation is set for a vote this evening. "Once again, the President is using the threat of al Qaeda to divert Americans' attention from the severe implications of his 'lack-of-progress' report in Iraq," Congressman Cummings said. "This notion is an insult to our soldiers who are risking their lives every day fighting this War as well as to the more than 3,600 Americans who have already lost their lives." Today's report from the White House conceded that the Iraqi government has failed to meet key benchmarks endorsed by the President in January and that political reconciliation is non-existent. "The President wants us to continue unconditionally arming and training Iraqi forces who have repeatedly demonstrated a lack of allegiance to the Iraqi government," Congressman Cummings said. "It is inconceivable that he would continue to push this agenda when we have repeated reports that Iraqi police-whom our troops are risking their lives to support and train-are actively collaborating with insurgents and even killing our soldiers." The President's speech came on the heels of a disconcerting report this morning that al Qaeda, utilizing Pakistan as a primary hub, is stronger now than it was before the September 11th terrorist attacks on America. Because of this, Congressman Cummings was particularly disturbed by the President's claims that an absence of American troops in the country would cause Iraq to become an al Qaeda training ground. "Al Qaeda did not have a presence in Iraq before the American invasion because their interests run inimical to those of the Shi'a and Kurds who comprise 80 percent of the population," Congressman Cummings said. "As soon as our troops are redeployed and there is no longer a common enemy, the Iraqis will drive out the foreign insurgents-as they are already beginning to do in anticipation of American troop withdrawal. It is time to stop the distraction in Iraq and begin focusing our resources on the real War on Terror." In this vein, Congressman Cummings will join his colleagues later today to vote in support of H.R. 2956, which would set a timely, responsible deadline for the re-deployment of American troops in Iraq. "I have been against the Iraq War from the start," Congressman Cummings said. "However, as long as our soldiers are in Iraq we must support them-and that includes establishing a timely redeployment. H.R. 2956 is long overdue." end text
07.12.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, convened the Subcommittee to examine the roll-out of the transportation worker identification credential (TWIC). Chairman Cummings released the following statement upon the conclusion of the hearing: "The maritime industry began approaching me with concerns about the transportation worker identification credential (TWIC) on the day I assumed the Chairmanship of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. The hearing I convened today gave the Subcommittee the opportunity to conduct a thorough examination of this credential and the changes it could bring to the maritime community. "The goal of TWIC is to keep those who pose a risk to the security of our nation away from our transportation infrastructure. This is a critical goal, and one that as Chairman of a Subcommittee that examines port security, I strongly support. "However, like all of the new security measures instituted after 9/11, the introduction of TWIC requires the government to strike a delicate balance. We must ensure that we put all needed security measures in place at our ports and throughout our maritime installations - but we must also ensure that these measures do not place an undue burden on the maritime industry, interfere with the flow of commerce, or lead to the unfair treatment of workers. "Further, we must ensure that the measures that are put in place make sense and that they counter the real threats we face rather than simply denying job opportunities to those who do not in any way threaten our nation's security. "The Members of the Subcommittee on both sides of the aisle are deeply frustrated with the questions that remain unanswered about this credential. Of particular concern are questions regarding the installation and use of the readers that are needed to enable the TWIC to be used to control access to secure locations as well as questions about whether the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and the Coast Guard will truly be able to issue a TWIC to all mariners who need one by September 2008. "Business must have predictability in order to be able to plan for success - and the maritime industry needs to have a clear understanding of how the roll-out of TWIC will proceed from this point. For that reason, I have also asked TSA and the Coast Guard to develop a timeline on the steps that will occur over the next year as we approach the 2008 deadline. "I have also committed that the Subcommittee will reconvene in 90 days to receive a progress report from the Coast Guard and from the TSA regarding the implementation of the TWIC card. "The TWIC's potential impact on the maritime industry and on individual mariners cannot be underestimated - and yet, a year from its full implementation, essential questions about TWIC remain unanswered. This is an unacceptable situation and the Subcommittee will continue to demand strict accountability from both the Coast Guard and TSA for the implementation of the TWIC program." end text
07.11.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings released the following statement today following the death of former First Lady Claudia "Lady Bird" Johnson: "Today I join our nation in mourning the death of one of our country's greatest and most cherished women. "Lady Bird Johnson has been a role model to us all with her unparalleled dedication to civil rights, keeping our cities and wildlife beautiful, and paving the way to a better quality of life for generations to come. "Her strong courage and advocacy efforts throughout the 1960's as she delivered endless speeches in support of equality for everyone -often to hostile crowds-were an inspiration and helped to mobilize the Civil Rights Movement. "Her beautification efforts both in Washington, D.C., and across the country are still vibrant today. Her commitment to ending poverty and ensuring a quality education for our children through the advocacy of initiatives such as the Head Start program was instrumental in helping our nation continue to move forward on such important issues. "My thoughts and prayers are with her family during this difficult time, and I hope that her legacy as a visionary leader will serve as a comfort to all those who loved her. She will be deeply missed." ###
07.11.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, in an important step to addressing the issue of increased foreclosures among sub-prime borrowers across the country, the House joined Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), member of the House Joint Economic Committee, in passing his resolution that supports home ownership and responsible lending practices. H.Res. 526 was passed just days after the Federal Reserve issued guidelines to lenders that encompass many of the ideals in today's resolution and regulate predatory practices in the sub-prime market. These new guidelines followed a letter sent by Congressman Cummings and several of his colleagues in the House urging Chairman Ben Bernanke to exercise the Federal Reserve's authority under the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act. "What we are seeing here are predatory lenders across the country stripping hard-working families of their American Dream of homeownership and turning it into a nightmare," Congressman Cummings said. "Through the new guidelines issued by the Federal Reserve in conjunction with Congressional action, we hope to put an end to the abusive practices that are hurting our families." While sub-prime loans are geared toward borrowers with low credit scores, they are not inherently dangerous; however, some abusive practices within the quickly-growing industry have resulted in a dramatic increase in foreclosures. This increase has been particularly noticeable in Maryland, which currently ranks 22nd nationally in home foreclosures-a huge jump from last year's ranking of 40th. In addition to hurting those being driven out of their homes, the increased foreclosures also pose a threat to the economy as the housing market becomes saturated with homes for sale and prices are driven down. "While this is a problem families are facing all over the country, we are being hit particularly hard right here at home," Cummings said. "In the last two years, foreclosures have cost the city of Baltimore approximately $1.8 billion in reduced property value. Right now, nearly 6,000 homeowners here in Maryland are facing foreclosure." Highlights of today's resolution state that government action should enforce rules to eliminate unfair and deceptive practices in sub-prime mortgage lending, establish minimum standards for lenders, encourage lenders to evaluate a borrower's ability to repay the mortgage over the life of the loan, and raise public awareness regarding mortgage originators with high foreclosure rates. end text
07.11.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Member of the Board of Regents at Morgan State University, joined his colleagues in passing the College Cost Reduction Act in a vote of 273-149, the single largest investment in college financial aid in over 60 years. The College Cost Reduction Act of 2007, H.R. 2669, invests $18 billion in college financial aid over the next five years-over $200 million of which will be allocated to Maryland families-at no new cost to taxpayers by reducing excessive federal subsidies to student loan lenders while simultaneously reducing the federal budget deficit by $750 million. "This is a landmark investment in Maryland's children, workforce, and economy," Congressman Cummings said. "Each year, more than 200,000 students miss out on college because they cannot afford it. Education is a right, not a luxury-and we cannot afford to allow the high cost of college to act as a roadblock to our children's futures any longer." Adjusting for inflation, tuition at four-year colleges has increased by nearly 40 percent in the last five years, making it increasingly difficult for families to afford college for their children. H.R. 2669 will reduce interest rates by 50 percent for the nearly 50,000 Maryland students who take out need-based student aid-a savings of nearly $5,000 for the typical borrower. Additionally, the bill would increase individual Pell Grant awards by $500 while also increasing the number of eligible students. "This legislation addresses the needs of our state's neediest families, by providing over 77,000 more Maryland students with access to the highly effective Pell Grant program," Congressman Cummings said. "These are the types of aggressive investments in our workforce that are necessary for our state and our country to continue being competitive in the global economy." The bill would also increase federal loan limits, make loan payments more manageable by guaranteeing that borrowers will not have to pay more than 15 percent of their discretionary income in loan repayments, and provide upfront tuition assistance to qualified undergraduate students who commit to teaching in public schools in high-poverty communities. end text
07.10.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, following President Bush's speech in Cleveland regarding U.S. strategy in Iraq, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, Member of the U.S. House Armed Services Committee, renewed his call to the Bush Administration to listen to the majority of the American people and establish a timely redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq. "Once again, the President has failed to demonstrate substantial progress in meeting the benchmarks that he himself established as he tries to divert our attention from this weekend's anticipated 'lack-of-progress report' by citing potential terrorist threats," Congressman Cummings said. "The American people-particularly those who are deployed in Iraq-deserve better than the President's strategy of using scare tactics while he puts American lives at risk. Americans deserve a realistic strategy that will bring our troops home safely and the application of a bilateral diplomatic approach to our current policy." The Bush Administration has consistently changed dates and benchmarks for measuring progress in Iraq, most recently announcing that a troop increase was the solution to rectifying continued escalation of violence in Iraq. Despite the President's claims in April that the "plus up" of troops was already yielding positive indicators, the following month proved to be the worst yet as the lives of numerous American troops and Iraqi civilians were and continue to be claimed. "As of today, over 3,600 American soldiers have been killed and over 26,000 have been wounded in a war in which they should never have been fighting in the first place," Congressman Cummings said. "Now the President is trying to scare us into following him with blind faith as he ignores commanders on the ground and continues risking hundreds of thousands of American lives while yielding no results." General David Petraeus, Commanding General of the Multi-National Force in Iraq, determined last month that the U.S. military operations in Iraq will take up to ten years to defeat the ongoing insurgency, despite the 30,000 troop increase. He added that the chances of having a stable Iraqi government in place by September were "slim to none," despite the President's call today to give General Patraeus more time to make the strategy work. "I have been against the Iraq War from the start," Congressman Cummings said. "However, as long as our troops are in Iraq we must support them by establishing a timely redeployment." end text
07.03.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D­Maryland), a Member of Joint Economic Committee, today applauded the Federal Reserve Board and other regulators for issuing guidelines to lenders that will address unfair practices in the sub-prime mortgage industry, which has caused many families to lose their most valuable asset-their home. In May, Congressman Cummings sent a letter to Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernake urging the Fed to require lenders to adopt consumer-friendly lending practices (see attached). "Hardworking Americans across the country and in Maryland are being stripped of the cornerstone of the American Dream - their homes - because unscrupulous lenders are engaging in unethical, and sometimes illegal, practices," Congressman Cummings said. He continued, "In the current lending environment, borrowers are being qualified based on their ability to pay low, introductory rates. However, when the loan rate balloons after the initial grace or 'teaser' period ends, many homeowners find it impossible to meet the increased payment requirements." Another major concern raised by consumers is the overly burdensome prepayment penalty associated with most sub-prime mortgage loans that discourages them from refinancing. The guidelines issued by regulators encourage lenders to give customers the opportunity to refinance prior to the expiration of the initial fixed interest rate period without penalty. Over the past few months, it has become increasingly clear that irresponsible subprime lending practices have contributed to the wave of foreclosures that are hitting homeowners and rattling the housing markets. According to RealtyTrac, a real estate research firm, foreclosures increased by 42 percent from 2005 to 2006, to 1.2 million. That translates into one foreclosure for every 92 households. Furthermore, the Center for Responsible Lending estimates that 1 in 5 sub-prime loans issued in 2005 and 2006 will go into default. "While this is a nationwide concern, these predatory lending practices are disproportionately hurting minority borrowers. Research shows that African American and Hispanic borrowers are 30 percent more likely to be steered into the higher-rate, sub-prime borrowers than non-minorities with the same qualifications," Congressman Cummings said. "By making this recommendation to lenders, the Federal Reserve is sending a strong message that predatory lending is unacceptable." In Maryland, the number of foreclosures has been relatively low when compared to national trends; however, the rate is steadily increasing. According the Mortgage Bankers Association, 5,700 homeowners were in foreclosure and 36,700 were late on their mortgages in the first quarter. Most startling is the fact that the state ranked 22nd nationally in foreclosures last month, up from 40th in 2006. "I commend the regulatory agencies for making these recommendations. These guidelines issued are a tremendous step forward and a victory for consumers," Congressman Cummings said. Congressman Cummings is also the lead sponsor for House Resolution 526, which supports home ownership and responsible lending. end text
07.02.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D­Maryland), a Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, expressed grave concern this evening about President Bush's decision to commute the prison sentence of I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby, Vice President Dick Cheney's former chief of staff. The commutation releases Libby from a 30-month jail sentence for lying to federal investigators about his role in the White House leak of a CIA officer's identity. Congressman Cummings released the following statement: "President Bush's decision to give I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby a 'get out of jail free,' card sends the wrong message on justice. "It reiterates to my constituents and others across this nation that if you have money and/or friends in high places that you will not be held accountable for your actions. "Mr. Libby was found guilty by a jury of his peers and sentenced to a term of incarceration that was reasonable. "Having to only pay a $250,000 fine when he placed the lives of our intelligence officers in grave danger is merely a slap on the wrist. "Our justice system clearly states that if you do the crime, you must do the time. "However, by allowing Mr. Libby to avoid his sentence, President Bush is sending the nation a statement that an unequal treatment of the law is acceptable." "In similar cases involving lesser known defendants, the punishments typically are more severe. Most defendants do not have the option of avoiding jail simply because of their high profile positions. "Today's action threatens the integrity of our system of justice." end text
07.02.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) today joined Domestic Policy Subcommittee Chairman Dennis Kucinich and 12 of their House and Senate colleagues in sending a letter (see below) to National Conference on Weights and Measures Chairman Michael Cleary urging a vote on the issue of "hot fuels" in its upcoming July 8-12, 2007 Conference. The issue was the topic of a June 8 hearing before the Domestic Policy Subcommittee. The energy content of gasoline decreases in warmer temperatures, making a gallon of gasoline worth less to the consumer in summer months. Gas companies correct for this by temperature adjusting prices in wholesale transactions, but they fail to do so in retail transactions. Congressman Cummings said: "The American people rely on gas to fuel their cars so that they can get to work, get their children to school, and visit their loved ones. They simply cannot afford the rising cost of filling up their tank. "That is why the issue of 'hot fuels' is so critically important. The petroleum industry has been robbing American consumers for decades, using one standard for wholesale transactions, and another at the pump. "This is highway robbery. There is no reason why the American consumer should pay an inflated price that the petroleum industry itself refuses to pay. "According to an analysis prepared by the Subcommittee staff, Americans will pay a so-called 'hot fuel' premium this summer in the range of $1.5 billion. In my home state of Maryland, consumers will pay a premium of $22.6 million this summer. "I can see no reason why we should allow gas companies to get away with imposing this added financial burden on consumers when they have long recognized the need to adjust prices in dealings with each other. "That is why I strongly urge Chairman Cleary to address this issue in the upcoming Conference on Weights and Measures." In addition to Rep. Cummings and Rep. Kucinich, other Members who signed the letter include Sen. Claire McCaskill, Sen. Barbara Boxer, Sen. Frank Lautenberg, Rep. Danny Davis, Rep. Diane Watson, Rep. Raul Grijalva, Rep. Peter DeFazio, Rep. John Hall, Rep. Jim Moran, Rep. Betty Sutton, Rep. Charles Wilson, and Rep. Mazie Hirono. # # # The text of the letter is as follows: Mr. Michael Cleary Chairman National Conference on Weights & Measures 15245 Shady Grove Rd., Suite 130 Rockville, MD, 20850 310-990-9771 (Fax) Dear Mr. Cleary: We are writing to strongly urge you and your colleagues to vote on the issue of temperature adjusted fuel standards during the 92nd Annual Meeting of the National Conference of Weights & Measures on July 8-12, 2007. American consumers have for far too long suffered from unfair petroleum industry practices, whereby gasoline sold at the retail level is not adjusted for fluctuations in energy content based on temperature. Our constituents demand and deserve fair prices for gasoline, and we expect that the Conference will address this critically important issue. As you noted in your June 8, 2007 testimony before the Oversight and Government Reform Committee's Domestic Policy Subcommittee, the issue of temperature compensation is nothing new. In fact, it dates back to the 1900s, when Standard Oil Trust commissioned an American Petroleum Institute study to standardize a gallon of petroleum product. The study was finished in 1917, and since that time the industry has used a 60 degree standard for all wholesale transactions. Retail transactions, however, get no such adjustment. This is simply unacceptable. As you are aware, a recent report conducted by Subcommittee staff indicates that this practice will cost the American consumer an estimated $1.5 billion in the summer of 2007 alone. We appreciate the historical perspective you provided in your June 8 testimony. We understand that barriers existed when the issue of temperature adjustment was last raised in the 1974 National Conference; however, technology currently available would allow a seamless transition to a system that allows for temperature adjustment at the retail level. As you know, such technology is nearly universal in Canada, and could easily be implemented here as well. Further, the cost of installing new technology simply does not outweigh the benefits to consumers. As was made clear in the June 8 hearing, gasoline retailers currently upgrade pump technology on a regular basis, and changing the technology as a part of this process would not impose a large financial burden. We understand that voting members of the National Conference will be faced with opposition to addressing the issue of temperature adjusted retail prices in the National Institute of Standards and Technology Handbook 130; however, we strongly urge you to address this vitally important issue now. We will be following this issue closely. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Mr. Jaron Bourke in Congressman Kucinich's office at (202) 225-6427. ###
07.02.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland), a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, today applauded the U.S. Supreme Court for agreeing to review whether Guantanamo Bay detainees may go to federal court to challenge their indefinite confinement. In April, the Court had refused to consider a similar request. The Guantánamo Bay Naval Base has been used to detain terrorist suspects since the September 11, 2001 attacks. Currently the U.S. government is holding 375 detainees in the facility, of which only 10 have faced charges. As a result, the international community and key leadership in Congress have voiced criticism of the ongoing use of Guantanamo Bay as a detention facility. The facility has also been sharply criticized for human rights violations. Congressman Cummings released the following statement: "The U.S. Supreme Court's decision to review whether Guantanamo Bay detainees may seek justice in federal court is a major step forward. "Sadly, the continued detention of suspected foreign terrorists at this center has undermined our nation's credibility as a leader in protecting individual civil liberties and human rights. Foreign policy experts say that this use of Guantanamo Bay coupled with the abuse of prisoners at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq has impacted the moral character of America in the international community. In doing so, it has placed the United States in jeopardy of violating various international norms namely, the Geneva Conventions. "Because many of the detainees have been held without charges, we do not know whether or not they actually have ties to terrorist organizations. Needless to say, we will not be able to make such determinations without a fair trial in a federal court governed by an objective body. "In this regard, the trials held by the military commission have been scant and thus far, have failed to charge and/or Convict the overwhelming majority of the current detainees. "As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I participated in a hearing on March 28, 2007 concerning the strengths and weaknesses of the Military Commissions Act of 2006 and the future of the detention and interrogation facilities at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The overwhelming majority of the testimony we received made clear that the ongoing use and detention of these prospective 'enemy combatants' without a right to a fair trial and use of evidence received under coercion undoubtedly strikes against the very fabric of our legal system. "The right to a fair trial and habeas corpus protections are at the very cornerstone of our democratic principles. As we continue to spread democracy, we must set the example on the global stage. "Reviewing our handling of Guantanamo Bay detainees by our highest court is a positive first step; however, a great deal more needs to be done." ________ Congressman Cummings is a co-sponsor of Habeas Corpus Restoration Act of 2007, which repeals provisions of the Military Commissions Act of 2006 that eliminated the jurisdiction of any court to hear habeas corpus claims by foreign national detained by the United States as enemy combatants. In addition, Congressman Cummings supports calls for shutting down the Guantanamo Bay detention center in a responsible manner as to ensure national security end text
07.02.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, called on the Coast Guard to submit the designs for National Security Cutter (NSC) 3 for analysis by the Naval Surface Warfare Center (Carderock Division) and to submit the results of the analysis to Congress. In a letter to the Commandant of the Coast Guard, Admiral Thad Allen, Chairman Cummings also called on the Coast Guard to commit to having the design and construction of all future NSCs certified by an independent, third party. Chairman Cummings said, "Last week, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure unanimously adopted by voice vote the Integrated Deepwater Program Reform Act, H.R. 2722, a bi-partisan bill that would create within the Coast Guard the systems and personnel positions that the Committee feels are essential to ensuring that the Coast Guard is able to effectively manage not only the Deepwater program, but also all future acquisitions efforts. "H.R. 2722 would require that the design and construction of each NSC beginning with NSC 3 be certified by an independent third party with expertise in vessel design and construction to be able to meet a 185-underway-day requirement under general Atlantic and North Pacific sea conditions for a period of at least 30 years. "The bill would also require the Coast Guard to have the design for NSC 3 analyzed by the United States Navy. Specifically, the bill would require the Coast Guard to report the results of an assessment of the hull design for NSC 3 - including changes incorporated into the design to resolve the structural design, safety, and performance issues identified by the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General report OIG-07-23 - prior to the award of a task order for the construction of NSC 3. "These provisions in H.R. 2722 respond directly to the Committee's concern to ensure that all future NSCs be free of any problems with their hull fatigue life - and that the NSCs be capable of meeting all requirements of the contract issued for Deepwater, including being capable of being underway at least 185 days per year for 30 years. "It appears at this time, however, that the Coast Guard may issue a production and deployment delivery task order for NSC 3 in July 2007 - before the full House of Representatives may have the opportunity to consider and adopt H.R. 2722. "As such, it may not be possible for the results of a Carderock analysis of the design for NSC 3 to be submitted 30 days prior to the planned award of the delivery task order for that ship - particularly as the Coast Guard appears poised to issue the delivery task order for NSC 3 before the designs for the ship have even been analyzed by Carderock and also intends to have Northrop Grumman incorporate changes into drawings for NSC 3 as part of the task order. "For that reason, I am calling on the Coast Guard to commit to providing the full, unedited results of a Carderock analysis of the hull design for NSC 3 to the Congressional committees previously named before any construction begins on NSC 3. I further request that the Coast Guard commit to having the design and construction of NSC 3 (and all subsequent NSCs) certified by an independent third party as called for in H.R 2722. "Given the significant problems that have been encountered in other Deepwater acquisitions and the troubling questions surrounding the hull fatigue life of NSCs 1 and 2, the Coast Guard should commit to take every available step to ensure that all future NSCs - the most expensive assets to be acquired under Deepwater - meet the highest technical and performance standards as well as all contractual requirements. "I believe that by submitting the designs for NSC 3 to Carderock for a full analysis by technical experts of the United States Navy and by committing to have the designs and construction of the ship certified by an independent third party, the Coast Guard can best ensure that NSC 3 meets these standards and requirements." end text
07.02.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) today announced that the Baltimore City Public School System has been awarded a $4.8 million grant by the U.S. Department of Labor for its Public School District Strategies for Reducing Youth Involvement in Gangs Program. Congressman Cummings made the following statement: "I am deeply pleased to announce that Baltimore City is getting this opportunity to turn around the scourge of gang activity. Our youth desperately need services to steer them away from a life of crime, and these funds will help provide those services. "Recent news reports of increasing violence from neighborhood gangs, combined with the influx of national and international gang presence, has highlighted the need for us to respond to this problem with great urgency. "Baltimore City officials recognize that our young men and women need hope and opportunity to put them on the path towards healthy, productive adulthoods. That is why we simply must end gang activity where it starts, by ensuring fewer young people are in the pipeline for gang enlistment. "The anti-gang plan developed by the City of Baltimore would do just that, and I am pleased to report that the U.S. Department of Labor has recognized this fact by committing $4.8 million to the cause." end text
07.02.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the House Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Committee, today called upon Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman (the companies that have been operating as the Integrated Coast Guard Systems team or "ICGS") to accept responsibility for the failure of the nearly $100 million ICGS effort to lengthen eight 110-foot patrol boats to 123 feet. "It will continue to be my top priority, as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, to restore the $24 billion Deepwater Program to a steady course. As a nation, we cannot afford to allow the program's next 20 years to be burdened with the failures it has experienced during its first 5 years. "While I will not comment upon any pending litigation between ICGS and the Coast Guard, our congressional investigations to date have revealed that buckling of the hulls has rendered the 123-foot Coast Guard patrol boats (the '123s') unsafe - requiring the Coast Guard to remove them from service and mothball them at the Coast Guard Yard in Baltimore. These ships, so critical to our homeland security, now await the removal of their electronic equipment before they are sent to scrap. "While there may be other deficiencies noted in the DD-250 delivery documents for these ships - or discovered after the boats were delivered - we now believe that the hull failures are unlikely to be reparable at any reasonable cost. "Even more disturbing to me, the removal of these patrol vessels from service has contributed to the Coast Guard's current 'mission gap' of some 25,000 hours. "The 123s - like all of the other assets being acquired under Deepwater - are intended to ensure the safety of our homeland and to support the Coast Guard's other vital missions, including narcotics interdiction and life-saving search and rescue services. The failures in the Deepwater program that our investigations have brought to public light leave our nation more vulnerable and expose the men and women of the Coast Guard to unnecessary safety risks. "These failures are unacceptable. The companies that make up the ICGS team are among the world's largest and most experienced defense contractors in the world. The Congress expects them to stand behind the quality of the critical assets that they have sold to the Coast Guard and the American people. "Enactment of the Integrated Deepwater Program Reform Act (H.R. 2722), approved by the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure last week, will be an important first step in our continuing effort to ensure the effective oversight of the Deepwater program. "While this legislation advances though the Congress, we will continue to demand strict accountability from both the Deepwater contractors and the Coast Guard - and I believe that accountability for the failure of the 123 program should include return of the American taxpayers' money." end text
06.28.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland) voted with 239 of his colleagues to pass the Fiscal Year 2008Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, H.R. 2829. "By passing H.R. 2829 we confirmed our commitment to efficient and fair elections, the support of small businesses, and our continued fight against the devastation of dangerous drugs," Congressman Cummings said. Specifically, the Fiscal Year 2008Financial Services and General Government Appropriations does the following: Provides $300 million in funds for states to improve the administration of elections by upgrading voting machines and voter registration databases in time for the 2008 Presidential election; Increases funding for programs to benefit disadvantaged communities and small businesses through the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund and investing in Small Business Loans and Development Centers; and Provides $226 million, to coordinate drug control efforts among local, state, and Federal law enforcement agencies, providing agencies with coordination, equipment, technology, and additional resources to combat drug trafficking and its harmful consequences in critical regions of the United States. Additionally, the bill secures $693,000 for the following projects and programs that will benefit the 7th Congressional District. However, this funding is contingent upon the final passage of the House-Senate compromise bill and the signature of the President. "However, I am a strong believer in an open and transparent government, and this is why I am releasing this information," Congressman Cummings said. "These much-needed funds will help create opportunities for the residents of the 7th Congressional district and also help uplift our youth." The projects/programs include: $231,000 for the Minority Community Small Business and Economic Development Initiative: These funds will support the Minority Community Small Business and Economic Development Initiative of the Thurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF). TMCF is comprised of 47 public Historically Black Colleges and Universities in 22 states, dedicated to advancing educational opportunities for African American men and women across the country. TMCF's Minority Community Small Business and Economic Development Initiative would target Baltimore City and other urban locations to promote and enhance small and minority business development. $231,000 for the University of Maryland, Baltimore (UMB) Biotech Park: With these funds, UMB will be able to support the continued growth of the BioPark and to create a workforce training center $231,000 for Access to Libraries and learning: Creating Technology for the Blind: The National Federation of the Blind will receive these funds to develop a completely accessible Integrated Library System (ILS) in Baltimore that can be used independently by the visually impaired to increase job and small business opportunities as well as provide access to both blind librarians and library patrons. "Finally, as founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Drug Policy, I am pleased to say that H.R. 2829 includes funding I requested for two programs: $90 million for the Drug Free Communities (DFC) program and $2 million for the National Community Anti-Drug Coalition Institute. Respectively, the programs work to reduce substance abuse among youth and provide resources that make anti-drug coalitions more effective in reducing drug use," Congressman Cummings said. ###
06.28.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah Cummings (MD-07) commented on the 5-4 decision reached by the U.S. Supreme Court rejecting the racial diversity plans of school districts in Louisville, Kentucky and Seattle, Washington. The Louisville-Jefferson County plan was implemented after the school system emerged from a 25-year desegregation plan (1975-2000) overseen by the federal courts. The goal was to maintain the racial integration the county had achieved. The Seattle school district relied on race only at the end of a lengthy process of allocating students among the city's high schools. Congressman Cummings released the following statement: end text
06.28.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure passed the Deepwater Integrated Program Reform Act, H.R. 2722, authored by Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. The Committee also passed the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2007, H.R. 2830, authored by the Chairman of the full Transportation Committee, James Oberstar (D-MN) and by Congressman Cummings. Both bills passed on voice votes. Congressman Cummings released the following statement: “As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, I am determined to be the number one supporter of the Coast Guard – but also to ensure that the Coast Guard meets the highest technical and professional standards and that the service has the tools it needs to keep our nation secure and to provide aid to those in distress at sea. I am also determined to require strict accountability of the service for its stewardship of taxpayer resources. “Obviously, the Coast Guard’s management of its $24 billion Deepwater acquisition program has not met these standards and expectations. The Deepwater program has had unacceptable failures – including the failure of the effort to lengthen 110-foot patrol boats to 123 feet, the failure of the first design of the new Fast Response Cutter, the failure to date of the effort to develop the vertical unmanned aerial vehicle, and now problems with the hull fatigue life on the National Security Cutter. “These program failures have occurred in large measure because the Coast Guard has not had in place the systems that would enable it to effectively manage this procurement and has instead relied on private sector contractors engaged under flawed contracts. “Admiral Allen has made significant progress in putting the Deepwater program on a new course that will meet the expectations of the American taxpayers. I applaud his progress and note that H.R. 2722 is intended to build on his efforts by creating within the Coast Guard the systems and personnel it needs to effectively manage all acquisitions efforts. “Specifically, H.R. 2722 would eliminate the use of private sector firms as the lead systems integrator. An amendment adopted during consideration of the bill in the Coast Guard Subcommittee requires that the private sector lead systems integrator function be brought back in house by 2011 – but allows the Coast Guard to bring the function back in house prior to that date if the service certifies that it has the personnel and systems to enable it to effectively manage the function. “We want to give the Coast Guard all of the time that it needs – and that the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General has recommended – to begin to take over the lead systems integrator function – but we also want to see the service move deliberately to begin managing its own procurements “H.R. 2722 would also require the use of full and open competition to help control costs on the program and ensure that the Coast Guard receives the best value for the expenditure of taxpayers’ resources. Further, it puts the Coast Guard firmly in charge of all technical decisions so that its interests are always paramount in all contractual matters. “Significantly, the bill also requires the appointment of a civilian as Chief Acquisitions Officer. Unlike the agencies of the Department of Defense, the Coast Guard does not have the ability to cultivate among its uniformed personnel a career’s worth of acquisitions experience. I believe that the appointment of a senior level civilian to oversee acquisitions in the Coast Guard will bring the kind of expertise to that position that is needed not only to ensure effective management of Deepwater but to oversee the new acquisitions directorate being created by Admiral Allen. “I am confident that H.R. 2722 would put in place the reforms that are needed to make the American people proud of the Deepwater program and confident in the assets produced under it. I look forward to working with my colleagues as this legislation moves to the floor of the House. “Today, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure also adopted the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2007, H.R. 2830, which authorizes $8.3 billion in funding for the Coast Guard, including more then $1 billion directed toward capital acquisitions. “The bill also makes long overdue improvements in fishing safety and introduces new training requirements, and creates new grant programs to support the safety improvements. “Further, the bill seeks to combat the transportation of invasive species through the ballast water carried in ships. Specifically, the bill requires that ships install ballast water treatment systems by 2013 and sets as a national goal the elimination of live organisms from ballast water by 2015. The bill also requires the Coast Guard to raise the national ballast water treatment standard as technologies for treating ballast water continue to improve. “Finally, the bill addresses the strain that the guarding of liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals is placing on the Coast Guard. The Committee adopted today an amendment I offered to require that before facility security plans for new LNG terminals are approved, the Coast Guard must certify that it has adequate resources in the sector where the terminal is to be located to guard that terminal. “Simply put, I do not believe that the construction of new LNG terminals should be approved if the Coast Guard does not have the resources it needs to provide security for these terminals. “I thank Chairman Oberstar, the Chairman of the full Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for his leadership, support and dedication to excellence. I also thank the Ranking Member of the full Committee, Congressman John Mica (R-FL) – as well as the Ranking Member of the Coast Guard Subcommittee, Congressman Steven LaTourette (R-OH) – for their work on H.R. 2722 and H.R. 2830. “The Coast Guard is truly our thin blue line at sea. H.R. 2722 and H.R. 2830 are vitally needed bills that will help ensure that the Coast Guard is truly prepared and equipped to keep our nation secure and to perform its other critical missions. “I look forward to working closely with all of my colleagues to move these bills through the Congress so that we can effect needed reforms in the Deepwater program and reauthorize our nation’s Coast Guard.” end text
06.26.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, applauded the announcement that James J. White will return to the Maryland Port Administration as Executive Director. Chairman Cummings released the following statement. "As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, I work closely with the Administration of Governor Martin O'Malley to support the growth of the Port of Baltimore, which is central to the economy both of the City of Baltimore and indeed of our State. "I am sorry that we will be loosing Brooks Royster, who recently announced his resignation as Executive Director of the Maryland Port Administration (MPA), but I am very pleased to learn that the State has been able to attract James White to return to the MPA as Executive Director. "Mr. White is a deeply respected figure in the Baltimore maritime community and is a consummate professional. When he left in 2005, Mr. White had nearly six years of experience as the MPA's Executive Director and had overseen stunning growth at the Port of Baltimore's public terminals through the effective implementation of a strategy that focused on attracting niche cargos, such as vehicles and paper products. "Mr. White excelled at winning the long-term contracts that have brought much-needed stability to the Port of Baltimore and that provide the foundation on which our future success will be based. "Due in large measure to his achievements, the Baltimore Port District now ranks in the nation's top 15 port districts both for the tonnage and the value of the cargo it handles. The Port of Baltimore now generates some $2.4 billion in salaries and wages and supports 19,000 jobs. "I know the Baltimore maritime community joins me in welcoming James White back to the Port of Baltimore and we look forward to having his steady hand at the port's helm for many years to come." end text
06.26.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, convened the Subcommittee to mark up the Integrated Deepwater Program Reform Act, H.R. 2722 and the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2007, H.R. 2830, which would reauthorize the Coast Guard. Both bills were adopted by voice vote. Congressman Cummings said, "The Integrated Deepwater Program Reform Act, H.R. 2722, would make significant and overdue changes to the management of the Deepwater program." "In response to the issues we have examined during the oversight hearings our Subcommittee has convened on Deepwater, H.R. 2722 would require the use of full and open competition for procurements made under Deepwater and require the use of third-party certification for new assets." "The bill also requires the appointment of a civilian Chief Acquisitions Officer. Currently, the Coast Guard's mission needs do not allow the service to cultivate among uniformed personnel the many years of acquisitions experience needed to develop senior-level acquisitions expertise. The bill requires the appointment of a civilian to head the Coast Guard's acquisitions efforts to try to ensure that this position is filled by an experienced acquisitions professional who will bring a commitment to the position longer than the current Coast Guard duty assignment." As introduced, H.R. 2722 would have prohibited the Coast Guard from using a private sector lead systems integrator two years after its enactment. However, an amendment offered by Congressman Steven LaTourette (R-OH), the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, and adopted by the Subcommittee would allow the Coast Guard to continue using a private sector firm as lead systems integrator until October 1, 2011. Chairman Cummings noted, "The Coast Guard could phase out the use of the private sector lead systems integrator earlier than 2011 if it certifies that it has in place the personnel and management systems necessary to enable it to perform that function in-house." The second piece of legislation considered during today's mark up, H.R. 2830, would authorize $8.3 billion in funding for the Coast Guard, including more than $1 billion directed to capital acquisitions, and authorize an end strength of 45,000 active duty personnel. Chairman Cummings said, "H.R. 2830 would provide an overdue authorization for the Coast Guard's fiscal year 2008 budget. It also introduces groundbreaking measures to improve the Coast Guard's operations, to protect our waterways from the significant risks posed by invasive species, and to improve safety in the fishing industry." "Further, the bill would create an ombudsman in each Coast Guard district to serve as a liaison between the maritime community and the Coast Guard and to give the maritime community an opportunity to have their concerns about the imposition of a Coast Guard requirement - or the withholding of a Coast Guard service - examined by an industry professional." Both H.R. 2722 and H.R. 2830 are scheduled to be considered during a mark up of the full Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure scheduled for 11:00 a.m. on June 28. end text
06.24.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, responded to allegations contained in a June 24, 2007 Baltimore Sun investigative article that the practices followed in the U.S. Coast Guard's administrative court system are unfair to mariners accused of violations of law or operating procedures. Chairman Cummings released the following statement: "As both Chairman of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee and a lawyer, I find the accusations presented in the Baltimore Sun article deeply troubling. "I will not comment on any pending litigation. Nevertheless, as a general rule, our judicial system must assure the fair treatment that is guaranteed by our constitutional principles of due process and equal protection. “I want to be the Coast Guard's number one advocate – but I am also duty bound to hold the service to the highest professional and ethical standards, particularly in its treatment of the men and women who work on our nation's waterways. "Secret instructions regarding defense arguments that are or are not acceptable to the court when issued while cases are pending, inappropriate contact between judges and investigators, or the withholding of potentially exculpatory evidence are all practices that are completely intolerable under broadly accepted judicial principles in this country. "In light of the seriousness of the charges raised in the Baltimore Sun's investigative report, I will work with Congressman James Oberstar (D-MN), the Chairman of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, to conduct a hearing on these assertions at the earliest possible date. "The administrative law system administered by the Coast Guard – which issues rulings that can end the careers and livelihoods of our nation's merchant mariners – must be equally balanced to assure that each defendant receives an impartial and fair hearing. “Even the slightest appearance of impropriety or unfairness cannot be tolerated." end text
06.22.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland), a Member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, served as the Acting Chairman during the full Committee's hearing entitled, "HHS Response to the Nation's Emergency Care Crisis." The hearing examined how the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has implemented the Pandemic and All Hazards Preparedness Act. Passed by Congress in 2006, the Act establishes the HHS as the primary federal agency in charge of coordinating the response to public health and medical emergencies. Congressman Cummings said, "In times of great tragedy, Americans rely on our emergency care system. Whether because of a car wreck, a heart attack, a stroke, or a pregnancy complication, Americans and their families show up at the doorstep of our nation's emergency rooms seeking critical care everyday. Emergency care is the great equalizer-it is the only form of health care guaranteed to every American, regardless of his or her ability to pay. "For that reason, we all want emergency care to work effectively for ourselves and our loved ones. When it does work, and it usually does, lives are saved, and lifelong disability is avoided. But when the system fails, it can have fatal consequences." "In my hometown of Baltimore, a City Health Department study documented that between 2002 and 2005, the total hours City hospitals were on 'red alert' status, meaning they had no cardiac monitored beds for arriving ER patients, increased by 36 percent. The length of time it took ambulances to offload patients in the ER increased by 45 percent, and the number of hours ambulances were diverted from overcrowded ERs shot up by 165 percent. "Failures in the ER have led to an increase in preventable death, from treatable conditions like heart disease. The fact of the matter is that we have a crisis in emergency care, and it is nationwide. With a national emergency and trauma care system as fragile as ours, how would we manage the very real threats of a terrorist bombing, a natural disaster, or an outbreak of pandemic flu? Where is the surge capacity?" In May, Congress enacted a one-year moratorium that blocks the Department from implementing its proposal to reduce funds for emergency care. But HHS has shown no signs of modifying its position. "Nearly six years have passed since the wake up call of September 11th, and HHS has yet to tackle this problem. The time for action is long past due," Congressman Cummings said. ###
06.22.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) applauded New York Yankees baseball player Jason Giambi for agreeing to cooperate with Major League Baseball's investigation into the use of illegal performance-enhancing drugs. Mr. Giambi is the first player to agree to be questioned by investigators about his use of steroids. In March 2006, Major League Baseball (MLB) Commissioner Bud Selig announced that the League would investigate players' alleged steroid abuse, and he hired former U.S. Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell to head the effort. The investigation came following several high-profile congressional hearings in which professional athletes testified about the realities of steroid use in sports. As the then-Ranking Member of the Government Reform Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy and Human Resources, Congressman Cummings played a pivotal role in those hearings. He also introduced legislation that would require professional sports organizations to establish a performance-enhancing drug policy that is at a minimum as robust as the Olympic policy. Shortly after the legislation was introduced, MLB changed its guidelines to impose stricter penalties for players who tested positive for steroid use. Congressman Cummings released the following statement: "I applaud Jason Giambi for being the first player to step up and cooperate with Senator Mitchell's steroid investigation. I hope that other players will follow Mr. Giambi's lead and work with investigators to uncover the truth about steroid abuse in baseball. "I also commend Bud Selig for his efforts to remove the dark cloud that currently lingers above America's favorite pastime. Following our Government Reform hearings, MLB took serious steps to send a message that cheating will not be tolerated, by implementing tougher steroid abuse policies and by creating the steroid investigation. "I look forward to receiving the final report from Senator Mitchell, and I hope that cooperation by the players will help speed up the process. The integrity of the game is at stake. But more importantly, we must protect the health and safety of millions of children who emulate their sports heroes." Congressman Cummings has also been working in his District to bring attention to the dangers of steroid use. He has partnered with St. Joseph Medical Center in Baltimore and other health organizations to launch the Powered By ME! campaign, which is an awareness campaign to educate Maryland middle and high school students, parents, coaches and teachers about the side effects, dangers and alternatives to anabolic steroids and supplements. end text
06.20.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, a strong advocate for quality healthcare for all Americans, expressed disappointment that President Bush vetoed the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, S.5. According to scientists, embryonic stem cells can become virtually any human tissue and renew and replicate themselves indefinitely, possibly offering a cure for conditions such as Alzheimer's and Multiple Sclerosis. If President Bush had signed this bill into law, it would have lifted restrictions that prohibit the use of embryonic stem cell lines in federally-funded research - restrictions that were imposed by the President in 2001. Most of the stem cell lines authorized for federally-funded research under the President's policy are now no longer useful for research. The bill only authorizes federal research funds for stem cell lines generated from embryos that would otherwise be discarded by fertility clinics. The bill also creates an ethical framework that must be followed in conducting this research under the guidance of the National Institutes of Health. Congressman Cummings released the following statement: "Today, I joined filmmaker Michael Moore to discuss the release of his latest film, 'SiCKO,' and how our broken health care system hinders hope for 46 million Americans who do not have access to necessary health care. "In an unfortunate coincidence, while this press conference was going on, President Bush vetoed the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, which would offer hope to millions of Americans with devastating medical conditions or injuries. "I am disappointed that President Bush refused to sign into law a bipartisan bill that would have guaranteed that the highest ethical standards would be applied to stem cell research. "Just like diseases such as smallpox and polio have been eradicated or controlled by the invention of vaccines, stem cell research provides the possibility for more medical cures to be explored. "When it comes to the health of our citizens, we must put partisanship aside and tear down the walls to medical well-being." end text
06.18.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland) today expressed his dissatisfaction with the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services' lack of response to an inquiry into efforts to improve children's access to dental care. CMS Director Dennis Smith initially requested a deadline extension to June 15, but missed that deadline. He has requested a second, indefinite deadline extension of late this week or early next week. Congressman Cummings said: "Director Smith has an obligation under the law to provide children who are eligible for Medicaid with access to dental care and I am committed to ensuring that he meets that obligation. "It concerns me greatly that Director Smith first made the argument in our hearing that he did not have any options available to him, and now has no response to our recommended courses of action. "I am extremely disappointed that we have not yet received a response, but I am hopeful that we will hear from him by this Friday-the third deadline we have set. "Every day that passes is another day children are suffering because they cannot get access to the care they desperately need." In a Baltimore press conference this morning, Congressman Cummings said that he will personally reach out to Director Smith if he does not receive a satisfactory response, and that he will call for another hearing if necessary. On May 17, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) introduced "Deamonte's Law," a bill, H.R. 2371, to increase children's dental services in community health centers and to train more individuals in pediatric dentistry. The legislation was introduced in response to the tragic death of a 12-year-old Maryland boy named Deamonte Driver, who died on February 25, 2007, when a tooth infection spread to his brain. end text
06.15.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation and Member of the House Armed Services Committee, joined his colleagues today in passing the Fiscal Year 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2638). H.R. 2638 funds critical programs that are vital to protecting our cities and towns from potential terrorist attacks. Specifically, the bill provides $36 billion in discretionary spending, which is $4 billion over the federal appropriations for FY 2007 and $2 billion over the President's FY 2008 budget request. The programs funded by the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill that are of particular importance to the Baltimore region include: $550 million in State Homeland Security Grants, which are used to meet the needs of first responders, including hiring, training and equipping them to provide critical services in times of emergency or disaster relief. From fiscal years 2003 to 2006, Maryland received over $97 million for this vital program. However, in his fiscal year 2008 request, the President proposed slashing these grants by 52 percent. This bill rejects that proposed cut and instead provides an increase of $25 million over fiscal year 2007 for these vital grants. $400 million for the Local Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention (LLETP) program, which assists local law enforcement agencies in information sharing and counterterrorism planning. Maryland received $19.5 million from 2004 through 2006 in LETPP funding for the prevention of terrorist attacks, intelligence gathering, and interoperable communications. The President's proposed budget would have eliminated this program. $230 million for the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program, which helps fund the hiring and training of additional firefighters. The President's budget proposed to eliminate $115 million from this important program that funds many of our local first responders. "For all the lip service given regarding the importance of domestic security, President Bush has already threatened to veto this bill. The Bush Administration claims that these funds are 'unwarranted and unjustified,'" Congressman Cummings said. "However, our local responders are on the front lines and are charged with responding to terrorist threats. It is our duty to ensure they have all the resources necessary to respond to potential and actual dangerous incidents." In his capacity as Chairman of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, Congressman Cummings then emphasized that this bill provides $8 billion for the Coast Guard, including $698 million for the Deepwater program that will enable the Coast Guard to replace inadequate, aging ships and aircraft. In addition to requiring the contracts awarded under Deepwater to be linked to successful acquisition outcomes, H.R. 2638 also ends no-bid contracting by requiring competitive bidding, a major improvement in acquisition oversight. H.R. 2638 also funds other priorities such as: $400 million for port security grants, which will fund port facilities and infrastructure, such as the port of Baltimore, a critical economic engine for Maryland which is also a direct entry way to our nation's capital. $400 million is also included to address security concerns for rail, freight, public transit and ferry systems. $4.2 billion for aviation screening and $849 million for the procurement and maintenance of baggage screening equipment. Finally, $8.8 billion is included for Customs and Border Protection, which allows for the hiring of 3,000 additional border patrol agents, creating a total of 17,819 agents by the end of FY 2008. The bill is now expected to be considered by the U.S. Senate. "We need to ensure that this nation is protected on all fronts. It is my hope that the President recognizes this priority and signs this bill into law," Congressman Cummings said. end text
06.15.2007	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland), a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted with 408 of his colleagues to pass the 2008 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations, H.R. 2642. The bill strengthens our military and further supports the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs by providing for several previously under funded initiatives for veterans. "Currently, our military is confronting major conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan, and on other global fronts," Congressman Cummings said. "As Members of Congress, it is our duty to provide our troops with the best training facilities possible so as to fully prepare them for their mission." With regards to military construction, the bill specifically does the following: Provides an unprecedented $21.4 billion investment for barracks, family housing, and training facilities; Provides funds to strengthen our military forces and begins the process of adding 65,000 Army, 27,000 Marine, and 9,000 National Guard and Reserve troops; and, Fully funds the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process at $8.2 billion. BRAC is expected to bring approximately 60,000 jobs to Maryland. As for veterans programs, the bill does the following: Ensures quality health care for 5.8 million patients, including approximately veterans 263,000 of Iraq and Afghanistan by providing over $37 billion for veterans medical care. This exceeds the President's request by $2 billion; Provides additional assistance to veterans suffering from traumatic brain injury (TBI), Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and mental health care issues; Significantly reduces the 400,000 claims backlog for veterans waiting for disability and other benefits by adding more than 1,100 new claims processors; and, Provides over $4 billion for much needed of VA health care facilities for ongoing maintenance and renovations. "This bill will help improve services for 470,000 veterans in Maryland," Congressman Cummings said. "Support for our troops extends beyond their active military service. By passing H.R. 2642 we have taken a monumental step towards fulfilling our obligation to fully provide veterans with the medical, psychological and economic support that reflects the many sacrifices that have made for this nation." H.R. 2642 now goes to the Senate for full consideration. end text
06.14.2007	start text Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, introduced the Integrated Deepwater Program Reform Act to bring significant reform to the Coast Guard's highly troubled $24 billion, 25-year Deepwater acquisitions program. Chairman Cummings was joined in introducing the Act by Congressman James L. Oberstar (D-MN), Chairman of the full Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. Among other reforms, the Act would prohibit the use of a private sector lead systems integrator for the Deepwater program two years after its enactment, require the use of full and open competition for acquisitions made under Deepwater, and require the use of third-party certification for assets acquired under Deepwater, including the classification of new cutters by the American Bureau of Shipping. Significantly, the Act would also require that the head of acquisitions in the Coast Guard be a civilian reporting directly to the Commandant of the Coast Guard Chairman Cummings said, "When I assumed the Chairmanship of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, I pledged to become the number one advocate for the Coast Guard and for the men and women of this service who every day risk their lives to save others. "I believe that fulfillment of this pledge entails setting the highest expectations of quality and effectiveness for all Coast Guard acquisitions programs and particularly for the assets acquired under Deepwater. It also entails creating within the Coast Guard the systems they need to meet these expectations. "I have already led our Subcommittee in conducting three hearings on Deepwater - including one earlier this week during which we received an update from the Commandant regarding the steps he has taken to begin strengthening the management of Deepwater. "Under the leadership of Chairman James Oberstar, the Full Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure also conducted an investigative hearing to examine the extent to which contractors complied with the requirements of the Deepwater contract during their work on the failed 123-foot patrol boat program. "The measures contained in the Act Chairman Oberstar and I are introducing today respond directly to the problems we have examined in these hearings. "Put simply, the assets acquired under Deepwater will be the tools on which the Coast Guard will rely for decades to come. They must not only meet or exceed all contractual requirements, they must ensure the safety of all Coast Guard personnel and they must ensure that these personnel are able to perform their vital missions. "To ensure the quality and reliability of all assets acquired under Deepwater, the Act mandates the use of third-party certification for all cutters and aircraft. To help control costs on the program and ensure that the Coast Guard receives the best value for the expenditure of taxpayers' resources, the Act requires the use of full and open competition for all Deepwater acquisitions. "The Act also prohibits the use of private sector firms as the lead systems integrator two years after its enactment. The Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security has emphasized that the Coast Guard must move slowly and deliberately to prepare to assume the role of lead systems integrator. For that reason, our Act gives the service the time to put effective systems in place and to chart a delicate course as the Coast Guard transitions this role from the Integrated Coast Guard System team to its in-house team. "Another of the key reforms required by the Act is the appointment of a civilian as Chief Acquisitions Officer reporting directly to the Commandant. I believe that the appointment of a civilian with extensive career experience in acquisitions management will bring to that position expertise that simply is not currently cultivated among uniformed Coast Guard officers given the service's mission requirements. "I again commend the Commandant, Admiral Thad Allen, for the steps he has taken to correct Deepwater's course. The legislation we are introducing today will help to steady the new course by putting in place the systems and the personnel the Coast Guard needs to effectively manage all future procurements. "I want to commend the leadership of Chairman Oberstar on this issue and his unwavering commitment to effective oversight, which infuses all of the work of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. I look forward to working with him, with Full Committee Ranking Member Congressman John Mica (R-FL) and Subcommittee Ranking Member Congressman Steven LaTourette (R-OH), and with all of my colleagues to advance this legislation within the Subcommittee and then in the Full Committee." ###
06.14.2007	start text Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland), a senior Member of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure joined the Committee in passing the Federal Railroad Safety Improvement Act of 2007, H.R. 2095. The Act was amended by a Manager's Amendment, which included an amendment introduced by Congressman Cummings to respond to specific findings issued by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) following the Howard Street Tunnel fire in 2001. During the tunnel fire, 11 of 60 cars comprising a CSX train traveling through the Howard Street Tunnel derailed. One derailed tank car was punctured, releasing a flammable liquid that subsequently ignited, creating a fire that spread through the other derailed cars and eventually triggered an enormous water main break in the Tunnel, releasing some 14 million gallons of water. A three-year investigation of this accident by the NTSB failed to identify a definitive cause, though track defects are considered to be a possible cause. NTSB did find, however, that emergency preparedness documents utilized by the Baltimore Office of Disaster Control and Civil Defense did not contain information on hazardous materials discharge response procedures in Tunnel environments in general or in the Howard Street Tunnel specifically. Baltimore City also lacked current information on ingress and egress and had apparently rarely, if ever, been notified of the condition of the Tunnel or how to handle an emergency in the Tunnel. "This lack of information unnecessarily hampered the City's response to the accident. The NTSB investigators recommended that the exchange of information between CSX and Baltimore City officials be significantly improved to ensure that first responders are never again without critical information on the structure of the Howard Street Tunnel," Congressman Cummings said. "Sadly, I doubt that Baltimore is the only city where railroads have failed to share critical information on the structure of tunnels - or other aspects of their operations - with local first responders. Therefore, the amendment I offered will require rail carriers to make available to local jurisdictions basic information on certain tunnels, including long tunnels or tunnels through which more than 5 passenger trains per day or more than 500 carloads of toxic inhalation materials per year are moved. Information to be shared by the railroads would include information on methods of ingress and egress and information on the types of cargo transported through the tunnel. "My amendment also requires railroads to maintain historical documentation on structural inspection and maintenance activities for tunnels for at least two years. Given the safety and security risks that we know threaten rail transportation, we must never again have a situation in this nation in which first responders are called to an accident in a tunnel without being informed of the basic structure of and access routes to that tunnel," Congressman Cummings said. Congressman Cummings further applauded H.R. 2095, which would reauthorize the Federal Railroad Administration and significantly enhance national rail safety programs, which were last authorized in 1994. "In the nearly 10 years that have passed since the last reauthorization of federal rail safety programs expired, human factors have become the single largest cause of train accidents, accounting for more than 1,200 accidents in 2005. I believe that H.R. 2095 takes the steps needed to put a common sense safety regime in place in the rail industry while adequately balancing safety considerations with the need to keep commerce moving," Congressman Cummings said. ###
06.13.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, expressed his appreciation for the service provided to the Maryland Port Administration by Executive Director F. Brooks Royster, III, who announced his resignation today. Chairman Cummings released the following statement: "I commend Brooks Royster for his outstanding service to the Maryland Port Administration (MPA). He is a dedicated professional who has brought great expertise in port administration to the Port of Baltimore and I have truly enjoyed working with him during his tenure. "Since he was named to head the MPA in May 2005, Director Royster has effectively managed the continued growth of the MPA and of the Baltimore Port District, which is now among the top 15 districts in the nation. "I wish Director Royster the very best in his future endeavors and thank him again for his dedicated service to the Port and to our community." end text
06.13.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) commended the Baltimore City Public School System (BCPSS) for selecting Dr. Andres Alonso as its new Chief Executive Officer. Dr. Alonso currently serves as the Deputy Chancellor for Teaching and Learning of the New York City Department of Education and has been instrumental in implementing major reforms in the New York City public school system. "I am pleased that the Baltimore City Public School System has selected a proven leader who has dedicated his career to educating children," Congressman Cummings said. "Dr. Alonso combines extensive experience as a senior administrator at the nation's largest public school system coupled with an unwavering belief that every child can succeed. He brings the right combination of professional skills and dedication to instill educational excellence and effective reforms in Baltimore City." "I am grateful to Dr. Charlene Cooper Boston for her committed service as interim CEO of BCPSS and I wish her the very best in the future," Congressman Cummings continued. "I look forward to working with Dr. Alonso on behalf of our City's children to meet the significant challenges facing our school system." end text
06.12.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, convened the Subcommittee to receive an update from Admiral Thad Allen, the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard, regarding the actions he has taken in the last 120 days to strengthen the management of the Deepwater program. Just over 120 days have elapsed since the Subcommittee convened its first oversight hearing over Deepwater in the 110th Congress under the leadership of Chairman Cummings. Deepwater is a $24 billion, 25-year procurement intended to replace and modernize the Coast Guard's aging fleet of cutters and aircraft. Chairman Cummings released the following statement upon the conclusion of the hearing: "I commend the Commandant for the considerable progress he has made over the past 120 days in decisively addressing past failures in the Deepwater program and in moving to develop the systems and personnel capabilities that will enable the Coast Guard to appropriately assume greater control over the program. "I applaud the Coast Guard's decision to rescind acceptance of the 123-foot patrol boats. However, the Coast Guard must now move to recover as much taxpayers' money as possible given not only the cost of the failed effort to expand the 110-foot patrol boats but also the fact that eight serviceable boats were ruined by this project. "We also remain gravely concerned about the hull fatigue life of the National Security Cutter (NSC). In the name of schedule constraints, the Coast Guard chose to move forward with implementation of a design for hulls 1 and 2 even though it was warned that the design had deficiencies that are likely to leave the ships unable to meet the hull fatigue life requirements of the Deepwater contract. "The Coast Guard appears now to be moving forward with a revised design for hulls 3 through 8 without identifying the full costs that will be incurred to correct the deficiencies in hulls 1 and 2 or the impact that the corrections may have on the operational capabilities of these cutters. "The National Security Cutters are already the most expensive assets to be procured under Deepwater - and the American taxpayer now faces what will likely be another hefty bill to correct deficiencies in these brand new ships. This is a very troubling situation and our Subcommittee will remain vigilant in demanding strict accountability for the decisions made by the Coast Guard regarding the NSC and the continued costs that the American taxpayer must bear to correct ships built to flawed designs. "Our Subcommittee will also closely oversee the delicate transition that must be made between the Integrated Coast Guard Systems team and the Coast Guard as it moves to assume the role of lead systems integrator. The Coast Guard has announced its intention to bring that function in house, but we heard today very important warnings from the Department of Homeland Security's Inspector General that this move should be undertaken cautiously and should not be completed until all of the systems and personnel are in place within the Coast Guard to enable the service to effectively fulfill this function. "It is a careful course that must be laid ahead, balancing the need to begin moving away from the ICGS team and toward the assumption by the Coast Guard of the lead systems integration role. However, I believe it is an essential move. "Our Subcommittee remains on watch overseeing the Deepwater program. While we continue to have the utmost confidence in Admiral Allen, we will continue to exercise diligent oversight to be sure that the Coast Guard can effectively manage the procurement of the assets on which the service will depend in future decades to defend our nation and to carry out the Coast Guard's other critical missions." end text
06.08.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, commented on the resignation of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Marine General Peter Pace. Congressman Cummings said, "General Pace was part of the old mindset - one that has engendered policies that have resulted in nearly 3,500 deaths among American soldiers and the expenditure of hundreds of millions of U.S. taxpayer dollars, while yielding only a broadening civil war and growing instability in Iraq. "At this point, we must make a realistic assessment of the current situation in Iraq and determine the appropriate role for the continued use of force. "This assessment must inform the immediate implementation of strategies that will create the circumstances that will enable us to responsibly withdraw U.S. armed forces from this conflict. "We must also be frank with the American people regarding what the continued use of force can accomplish in Iraq given that the resolutions that must be reached are essentially political and can be created only by the Iraqi people. "I am hopeful that the nominee to replace General Pace, Admiral Michael G. Mullen, Chief of Naval Operations, will approach the duties of the Office of Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the challenges of the Iraqi conflict with thoughtfulness and a willingness to work with Congress in order to reach an end to our military operations in Iraq as quickly as possible." end text
06.07.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland) today joined his colleagues to approve the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, (S.5). Similar to the DeGette-Castle Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 3), which Congressman Cummings supported in January, the Senate version passed today increases the number of embryonic stem cell lines eligible for federally-funded research. Unlike the House bill, S.5 authorizes alternative stem cell research or ways to obtain stem cells that have the same properties as embryonic stem cells, but do not involve destroying embryos. "Recently, debates involving the right to die when one is faced with a terminal illness have resurfaced. However, the expansion of stem cell research will open the door to life for patients with these hopeless conditions," Congressman Cummings said. According to scientists, embryonic stem cells can become virtually any human tissue and renew and replicate themselves indefinitely, possibly offering a cure for conditions such as Alzheimer's and Multiple Sclerosis. This bill would expand the federal funding of embryonic stem cell research by lifting the restrictions on the embryonic stem cell lines that can be used for federally-funded research - restrictions that were imposed by President Bush in 2001. Most of the stem cell lines authorized for federally-funded research under the President's policy are now no longer useful for research. However, the bill only authorizes federal research funds for stem cell lines generated from embryos that would otherwise be discarded by fertility clinics. The bill also creates an ethical framework that must be followed in conducting this research under the guidance of the National Institutes of Health. "I approach stem cell research with deep respect for the significant ethical concerns that have been raised, and I strongly believe we must never lose our diligent focus on ensuring that these research techniques are not abused for immoral ends," Congressman Cummings said. "S. 5 will guarantee the highest ethical standards will be applied to stem cell research." During the 109th Congress, the House and Senate passed the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005, H.R. 810. Unfortunately, the bill was vetoed by President Bush. "By approving this legislation, we are sending President Bush a bill that shows our nation is committed to using technology responsibly and saving the lives of our loved ones," Congressman Cummings said. ###
06.06.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland), a Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Co-Founder/Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Drug Policy, voted with the House majority to pass the Afghanistan Freedom and Security Support Act, H.R. 2446. This legislation renews a 2002 Afghanistan authorization that funds development, economic and security assistance programs, and establishes a coordinator to tackle the growing threat of narcotics in Afghanistan. In terms of specific funds, the bill authorizes $6.4 billion for fiscal years 2008 through 2010, of which $2.1 billion is authorized to be spent in fiscal year 2008. Despite efforts to rebuild Afghanistan, experts warn that extremists continue in their attempts to regain control of the government. This bill, however, takes the steps necessary to ensure Afghanistan's long-term stability and security. As a leader in drug policy issues, Congressman Cummings said, "I was encouraged that H.R. 2446 requires the President to set out an enhanced counter-narcotics strategy and mandates a cutoff of U.S. assistance to local or provincial governments where there is credible evidence that officials have links to terrorist activities or the drug trade." "Recently, Pentagon officials said that newly-formed Afghan forces are taking the lead in addressing the problem of counter-narcotics. However, they expressed that challenges remain in funding helicopters, testing labs and other anti-narcotic equipment/material," Congressman Cummings said. "This bill addresses some of these challenges by requiring the President to appoint a coordinator with authority to work across all U.S. government departments and agencies to implement a counter-narcotics strategy in Afghanistan. The legislation also contains a provision that will require the Drug Enforcement Administration to target 'sensitive sites' which harbor major drug kingpins and narcotics processing labs in Afghanistan." Overall, the bill requires the President to set out an enhanced strategy with specific and measurable reconstruction and security goals for Afghanistan. It also requires the Administration to report to Congress its progress in meeting a large range of political, economic, development, security, and counter-narcotics performance goals. Providing this information will ensure adequate accountability and oversight of our ongoing military operations in Afghanistan. "Achieving stability in Afghanistan is a key part of the global strategy to address and prevent terrorism. I am hopeful that this bill will assist us in achieving meaningful strides in Afghanistan, while benefiting its people," Congressman Cummings said. end text
06.05.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland) today called for the Oversight and Government Reform Committee's Domestic Policy Subcommittee to hold a hearing to investigate reports of failure with the Office of National Drug Control Policy's "Plan Colombia," program, which aims to eradicate coca production in Colombia. Despite record spending of more than $5 billion, a White House survey found coca production in Colombia rose for the third consecutive year in 2006. Congressman Cummings said, "I am deeply troubled by recent reports that the Drug Czar's 'Plan Colombia' program is failing. We have dumped more than $5 billion taxpayer dollars into this venture, and have yet to come up with convincing results. As good stewards of taxpayer dollars, we must ensure that all government programs run as effectively and efficiently as possible, and with 'Plan Colombia,' that has not been the case. "Even more troubling perhaps is the fact that we did not learn of this grim report from our own government, but rather from Colombian President Alvaro Uribe. The American people demand and deserve transparency and accountability from their government officials, and the Drug Czar is no exception to that rule. "I see the impact of coca production in my Congressional District in Baltimore City. Individual lives, families and whole communities are destroyed everyday by the ravages of drugs. We cannot afford $5 billion in ineffective spending when our neighbors here at home are suffering. As a Member of the Domestic Policy Subcommittee, I recognize that we have a duty to investigate this critically important matter. That is why I have called for this hearing." Below is the text of the letter sent to Subcommittee Chairman Dennis Kucinich. June 5, 2007 The Honorable Dennis KucinichChairman, Subcommittee on Domestic PolicyOversight and Government Reform Committee2157 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C., 20515 Dear Chairman Kucinich: I am deeply troubled by the latest news from the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) regarding "Plan Colombia," the agency's program to eradicate coca production in Colombia. Despite record spending of more than $5 billion, a White House survey found coca production in Colombia rose for the third consecutive year in 2006. What is more troubling is the fact that we did not learn of this grim report from our own government-but rather from Colombian President Alvaro Uribe. I simply do not understand how the ONDCP can justify spending $5 billion on a program when it cannot prove its effectiveness. Further, I cannot accept the agency's apparent lack of accountability for this failed program. I am committed, as you are, to ensuring that government is accountable, and that it runs as effectively and efficiently as possible. That is why I respectfully request that the Subcommittee conduct an oversight hearing to investigate the ONDCP's "Plan Colombia" program. A major goal of "Plan Colombia" was to cut coca production in half within five years, but the latest estimate indicates 27 percent more coca is being produced than in 1999, the year before the anti-drug effort went into effect. A recent dip in the U.S. street price of cocaine, and rise in purity, also points to an abundant supply. Last year, Colombia's drug police used U.S.-supplied planes to spray glyphosate herbicide on 424,000 acres of coca and opium poppies, and they manually eradicated an additional 42,100 acres of coca. In 2005, authorities fumigated almost 345,900 acres, but the United States found the amount of coca surged 26 percent, to 355,831 acres. Now we find that in 2006, coca production has again surged, to 388,400 acres. This is unacceptable. White House Drug Czar John Walters has argued that the unexpected rise was a statistical aberration owing to a near doubling of the area surveyed. I am not satisfied with this explanation. The American taxpayer deserves solid evidence that a $5 billion project is effective, and I see no evidence of that in the information we have been given. I would be interested to know from Mr. Walters how confident he is in his own measurements, how he determines whether his efforts are succeeding, and what his goals are moving forward. Additionally, I would like to know why, given what we know about "Plan Colombia," Mr. Walters has chosen to pursue eradication efforts more aggressively than interdiction efforts. Further, I would like to know how he justifies spending $5 billion on a failed international program when there is such a great need for treatment and prevention programs here at home. And finally, if his intention is to cut off coca production in Colombia, I would like to know why he has not focused more efforts on providing the people of Colombia with alternatives to growing coca. I appreciate your attention to this request. If I can be of any assistance, please feel free to contact Ms. Danielle Grote in my office at (202) 225-4741. Sincerely, Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Henry A. Waxman, Chairman, Oversight and Government Reform Committee end text
05.28.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Congressman Elijah Cummings [MD-07] joined the rest of America in mourning the passing of former Congressman Parren J. Mitchell. The Congressman released the following statement: "Throughout his life, Congressman Mitchell dedicated himself to opening the doors to opportunity for all Americans," Congressman Cummings declared. "He was a true servant leader, never concerning himself about fame or fortune but, rather, devoting himself entirely to uplifting the people he represented. Born on April 29, 1922, in Baltimore, Congressman Mitchell was a graduate of Morgan State College (now Morgan State University), and earned a Master's degree from the University of Maryland. Even before his election to the U.S. House of Representatives, he served in the U.S. military during World War II, where he was wounded and received the Purple Heart. Congressman Mitchell also served as the Executive Director of the Maryland Human Relations Commission and was the Director of the Baltimore Community Action Agency. Later, at his alma mater Morgan State University, he became a sociology professor and director of their Urban Studies Institute. He was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1971. In December of 2006, legislation sponsored by Congressman Cummings that named the U.S. Post Office at 6101 Liberty Road in Baltimore after Parren J. Mitchell became law - an honor that was universally declared as well deserved. "As the Chairman of the House Small Business Committee, Congressman Mitchell helped open business opportunities to those who previously had been excluded," Congressman Cummings observed. "Through his work in the Congressional Black Caucus, he helped create the organization that has enabled African American Members of Congress to speak with a united voice for justice and for equality throughout our nation." In response to his lifetime of dedication to the downtrodden of this nation, Congressman Parren J. Mitchell earned the lasting admiration and affection of millions. "It was not unusual for Congressman Mitchell to pick up the telephone and give advice," Congressman Cummings recalled. "He was a teacher who touched my life and the lives of so many others." "Parren Mitchell was beloved by all who were privileged to know him," Congressman Cummings declared. "He earned the trust of people throughout the country and the world because he was constantly building bridges for others to cross, while tearing down the walls that had excluded them." "My thoughts and prayers are with his family. Their loss is our loss as well." end text
05.24.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext On Friday, May 25, 2007, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland), will receive an honorary doctorate of laws from Goucher College during the college's commencement ceremony at 10:30 a.m. at 1021 Dulaney Valley Road, Baltimore, MD, 21204. Goucher is a private, co-educational liberal arts college that has provided higher education to students since 1885. "I look forward to accepting this prestigious honor from Goucher College, which has challenged students to use the world as their classroom. Most recently, the College implemented a mandatory study abroad requirement for all students, providing stipends to those in need," Congressman Cummings said. "As a Member of Congress who regularly reviews and votes on foreign policy legislation, I know first hand, that it is becoming increasingly important for students to learn about other countries and interact with citizens of other nations in order to succeed in today's global economy." After receiving the doctorate of laws, Congressman Cummings will applaud the students for all of their accomplishments and then challenge them to use their talents and find ways to be of public service. end text
05.24.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland), successfully pushed for the passage of the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007 (H.R. 2316) and the Lobbying Transparency Act of 2007 (H.R. 2317), which ends the tight-knit relationship between lobbyists and lawmakers by establishing standards that heighten disclosure requirements and guidelines that prevent inappropriate conduct. In addition to prohibiting Members of Congress and senior staff from lobbying their former colleagues or prior employers for one year, the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act ensures an open and honest Congress by: Requiring lobbyists to disclose fundraisers and other events that honor Members; Establishing an online, searchable public database of Member travel and personal financial disclosure forms; Requiring sitting Members to disclose job negotiations for post-Congressional employment and to recuse themselves when there is a conflict of interest or an appearance of a conflict; Requiring Members to prohibit their staff from having any official contact with the Members' lobbyist spouse on behalf of the spouse's client; Requiring lobbyists to disclose past Executive Branch and Congressional employment; and, Ending the K Street Project by prohibiting Members and senior staff from influencing employment decisions or practices of private entities for partisan political gain. "This bill ends the culture of corruption by ending close relationships between lobbyists and lawmakers," Congressman Cummings said. Congressman Cummings also voted for the passage of The Lobbying Transparency Act of 2007, H.R. 2317, which will require lobbyists who "bundle," or collect campaign checks for Members of Congress in excess of $5,000 to meet strict reporting and disclosure guidelines. "We opened this Congress riding the ethics horse, and I think we have to ride it all the way to the finish line," Congress Cummings said. end text
05.24.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext Today, U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland), a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted in favor of Amendment 1 of U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act of 2007 (H.R. 2206), and against Amendment 2 of the legislation. Amendment 1 of the bill includes an increase in the minimum wage and funding for such items as military health care, veterans' health care, homeland security, children's health care, agricultural disaster aid, and Gulf Coast recovery. Amendment 2 includes a portion of the funding requested by President Bush for the Iraq war, as well as the Warner accountability and reporting requirements but no timeline for redeployment. Both were adopted by the House today. Congressman Cumming said, "Despite my opposition to the war in Iraq, I remain a strong supporter of our troops and voted in favor of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007 (H.R. 1591) when it came before the House in March. It was a difficult decision, but I had to vote my conscience. For the first time we were requiring accountability standards by establishing benchmarks and a timeframe for redeployment. "Unfortunately, President Bush vetoed this bill and the House did not garner support to override the veto." "On May 10, Congress considered and passed version two of the Iraq Supplemental (H.R. 2206). This bill would have provided $42.8 billion for the Iraq War. For the most part, funding would have supported the immediate needs of the U.S. military through July. "Further, under this bill, Congress would have decided whether to release an additional $52.8 billion of war spending that would last until September. "This measure would have placed needed limitations on access to funding based upon the progress reports provided to Congress by the President. This would bring Mr. Bush and his Administration back to reality by no longer continuing to risk the lives of thousands of U.S. troops in Iraq without oversight and accountability. However, in an effort to avoid another veto by President Bush, H.R. 2206 has been butchered into a bill hallow of needed provisions that would safeguard this country from engaging in seemingly endless military operations in Iraq. Therefore, I voted in favor of Amendment 1 to H.R. 2206, and voted against Amendment 2. "One of my primary concerns has been to ensure that the troops receive the equipment, rest and training they require and deserve. I voted in support of Amendment 1 to H.R. 2206 because it provides support for Defense and the Global War on Terror totaling over $14.489 billion in funding. This includes $617 million in state and foreign operations, $3.137 billion for BRAC, $1.789 billion in Veterans Medical Care (including funding for Walter Reed Medical Center), and $1.050 billion for Homeland Security. Moreover, Amendment 1 supports our troops by appropriating nearly $1 billion for our military personnel including marked increases in funding for our reserve personnel. "Amendment 1 resolves many of the shortcomings of our military medical healthcare facilities including the inability of defense health programs to treat and care for our injured service men and women returning from the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan. It also provides needed oversight of military medical treatment facilities and housing, by requiring that a series of inspections be conducted by the Secretary of Defense, which would ensure that our service members never again return to substandard military facilities. "Amendment 1 also provides needed funding for domestic programs, including $393 million in funding to the State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIP), a vital program to the nation and to the State of Maryland. I should also note that Amendment 1 provides needed Gulf Coast recovery support for those still suffering from the widespread damage caused by Hurricane Katrina. "What is most problematic about H.R. 2206 Amendment 2 is that although the bill does threaten to withhold U.S. aid dollars for Iraq if progress on political and security reforms are not made, this threat is fruitless considering that the President can just as easily and quickly waive the restriction with little forethought. "President Bush can no longer expect a blank check without any accountability given the current circumstances in Iraq. Over 3,400 soldiers have died and the number increases each day. We have been working diligently to negotiate with the President, but he has constantly failed to meet us halfway, despite the clear need for a new direction and policy in Iraq. His mandate to have a bill absent of time lines for redeployment and key benchmarks measuring our progress is unreasonable and irresponsible. This is exactly why I firmly disapprove of Amendment 2. "In reality, this legislation simply shortchanges the American people of what they deserve, a new strategy in Iraq with firm deadlines on troop redeployment and needed accountability and oversight of our military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. "Congress has the responsibility to ensure our policy in Iraq is working, especially as our service members continue to sacrifice their lives at a rapid pace. "I refuse to compromise our national security, and take idly a mismanaged war where more than 3,400 U.S. soldiers and countless Iraqi civilians have lost their lives." end text
05.23.2007	Washington, D.C. — startwidainctext As part of his continued commitment to veterans, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Maryland) applauded the majority of his colleagues for joining him in passing the Traumatic Brain Injury Health Enhancement and Long-Term Support Act of 2007 (H.R. 2199). More than half of combat injuries suffered by soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan are associated with brain trauma, often due to improvised explosive devices. As a co-sponsor of this bill, Congressman Cummings supports this measure that provides veterans with proper screening for Traumatic Brain Injuries (TBI) and upon diagnosis, ensures they receive necessary treatment. The bill addresses several of the issues that have recently been highlighted in the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act (H.R. 1538) and the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2008 (H.R. 1585) regarding increased care for service members suffering from TBI and/or Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome. H.R. 2199 supports adjustments to current Department of Veterans Affairs' procedures regarding screening, diagnosis, and rehabilitation of service members with TBI. The key provisions in this legislation include: requiring the Department of Veterans Affairs to screen veterans for TBI, which has thus far not been routinely performed; calling for a comprehensive program of long-term care for post-acute TBI rehabilitation; establishing a TBI transition office at each of the 21 polytrauma network sites nationwide; creating a TBI veteran health registry; and, expanding VA resources to provide rural communities with "mobile vet centers" for mental health services and benefits outreach. "During a March 1, 2007 House Armed Services Committee hearing, I questioned Donald C. Winter, the Secretary of the Navy; Admiral Michael G. Mullen, Chief of Naval Operations; and General James T. Conway, Commandant of the Marine Corps, about the actions taken to treat soldiers with TBI and other serious combat wounds. In response to my question, General Conway confirmed that there are difficulties delivering services to those who do not live near large VA facilities. He also indicated that no specific plans have been developed to ensure that all soldiers with TBI receive the rehabilitative services they require," Congressman Cummings said. "This is the wrong way to treat those who voluntarily join our Armed Forces and have risked their lives. We should instead give our service members all the support they need both while they are in combat and when they return home. " Congressman Cummings further commented that "If we are to make good on our pledge to support our troops, we must create a system of medical care and rehabilitation that meets or exceeds the growing challenges we face. Congress must do what is required to create a more perfect medical system for our deserving veterans." end text
